02.28.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) urged President Trump on Thursday to request funding for the Department of Energy’s Domestic Manufacturing Conversion Grant Program in his upcoming Fiscal Year 2020 Presidential Budget. General Motors’ Lordstown facility would be a prime candidate to use the funding. The program would provide grants and loan guarantees to automobile manufacturers who are interested in producing efficient hybrid, plug-in electric hybrid, and advanced diesel vehicles. The program gives special priority to the refurbishment or retooling of manufacturing facilities that have recently ceased operation or will cease operation in the near future. “The announced closure of GM Lordstown has hit our community hard. Thousands of families are having to make difficult decisions to make ends meet – some of them leaving everything behind to look for work, while others are holding on hope that something might change. The President promised he would bring manufacturing jobs back to my district, and this conversion grant program would be a strong first step in that direction. We need to be prepared for the future of automation, and upgrading the Lordstown facility for efficient hybrid, plug-in electric hybrid, and advanced diesel vehicles would go a long way for Northeast Ohio. I urge President Trump to honor his commitment and help Lordstown,” said Congressman Ryan. The full letter can be found below or viewed here: February 28, 2019 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Trump: On behalf of my constituents, I respectfully urge you to include funding for the Department of Energy (DOE)’s Domestic Manufacturing Conversion Grant Program in your Fiscal Year 2020 Budget. As you know, General Motors (GM) announced it would lay off nearly 14,000 salaried workers and halt production at five North American plants in 2019. One of these plants, GM Lordstown, is in my congressional district. Once the proud maker of the Chevrolet Cruze, the Lordstown facility has suffered from falling consumer demand for compact cars. In the absence of a new product, GM Lordstown facility will be shuttered indefinitely—leaving over 1,400 employees out of work. In Section 132 of the Energy Independence and Security Act (EISA), Congress established the Domestic Manufacturing Conversion Grant Program to encourage domestic production and sales of efficient hybrid, plug-in electric hybrid, and advanced diesel vehicles. This program provides grants and loan guarantees to automobile manufacturers and suppliers, giving special priority to the refurbishment or retooling of manufacturing facilities that “have recently ceased operation or will cease operation in the near future.” GM Lordstown is a prime candidate for this conversion program. However, it has not been funded. Mr. President, you have publicly stated your commitment to standing up for American workers and bringing back manufacturing jobs. Your Fiscal Year 2020 Budget should honor and reflect this pledge of support. At a time when thousands of hardworking Americans are at risk of losing their livelihoods, I ask that you include a budget request for the Domestic Manufacturing Conversion Grant Program. I look forward to hearing from you soon. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
02.26.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) applauds the passage of the Natural Resources Management Act—a public lands package that permanently reauthorizes the Land and Water Conservation Fund and includes a provision removing the funding limitation in the Ohio & Erie National Heritage Canalway Act of 1996. The Ohio & Erie Canalway National Heritage Area was expected to hit the funding cap this year. Congressman Ryan introduced a bill in the 115th (H.R. 7081) and 116th (H.R. 1211) Congress removing this funding limitation, and that language was included in the public lands package. The Senate passed the bill last week and it now heads to the President’s desk for his signature. “Today’s passage of the public lands package is a huge win for conservation and the State of Ohio, and I am proud to have played a role in ensuring federal support for the Ohio & Erie Canalway National Heritage Area will continue. Federal dollars encourage private investment, which means more Ohioans will have access to outdoor recreation activities and protected natural resources right in their backyard. It also means more tourism and economic development opportunities for surrounding communities. The continued development and construction of the Ohio & Erie Canalway and Towpath Trail will connect neighborhoods and create much-needed green spaces in areas that would otherwise not have them. All of this underscores the importance of the continued conservation of historic spaces and public lands for communities, local economies, and future generations of Americans,” said Congressman Ryan. “Through the funding cap increase for the Ohio & Erie Canalway National Heritage Area in the Public Lands bill, we will continue to develop, maintain and activate the Ohio & Erie Canal Towpath Trail and connector trails, preserve historic buildings, and conserve natural areas from Cleveland to New Philadelphia, Ohio. Working together with local governments, park agencies, foundations and non-profit organizations, we have built 88 miles of the Towpath Trail, preserved over 20 historic structures and leveraged over $408 million in community and economic impact. For every $1 of federal investment, we are leveraging $3 of private, local and state funding for the Ohio & Erie Canalway National Heritage Area, Towpath Trail and connector trails. We are extremely grateful to Congressman Ryan for his tremendous support and vision for Ohio & Erie Canalway and Towpath Trail, and all members of the Ohio delegation, as we celebrate our heritage, promote stewardship and create a legacy for future generations,” said Dan Rice, President and CEO of the Ohio and Erie Canalway Coalition.
02.26.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) today voted in favor of the privileged resolution terminating President Trump’s invocation of the National Emergencies Act to build a wall on the southern border. The privileged resolution now moves to the Senate for a vote. Revoking Trump’s national emergency declaration would protect $77.2 million that is set to go to Ohio military construction projects – $16.2 million for Youngstown and Ravenna. Ryan secured these funds for Northeast Ohio through his role on the House Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee, read more here. “The Constitution mandates that Congress--not the Executive Branch--has the power of the purse. Congress is not going to stand idly by while President Trump abuses his power for an ineffective, expensive wall. We’ve seen sitting Congressional Republicans, U.S. national security officials, and a majority of the American people rebuke the President’s call for this fake national emergency. In order to build his wall, President Trump is threatening to take $16.2 million that is set to go towards critical military projects in our community. This is money that should be going to better prepare our men and women who defend our country every day at our bases in Youngstown and Ravenna. I am not going to stand by and let him threaten the safety and well-being of our community for this political charade,” said Congressman Ryan. Ryan was an original cosponsor of today’s resolution to terminate Trump’s national emergency, read more here. Ohio Military Construction Projects that meet the Trump Administration’s criteria to be reallocated to fund the border wall: Wright-Patterson Air Force Base ADAL Intelligence Production Complex (NASIC) - $61,000,000 Camp Garfield (formerly Camp Ravenna) Automated Multipurpose Machine Gun Range - $7,400,000 Youngstown Air Reserve Base Main Gate upgrade - $8,800,000
02.25.2019	Washington, DC – Representatives Tim Ryan (OH-13) and Dave Joyce (OH-14) introduced bipartisan legislation today to posthumously award the Congressional Gold Medal to Youngstown-native Simeon Booker in recognition of his achievements in journalism and commitment to civil rights. “I cannot think of a more worthy American than Simeon Booker to award a Congressional Gold Medal—the highest civilian honor Congress can bestow. His long, trailblazing career in journalism and his commitment to telling the stories of the civil rights movement changed our nation for the better,” said Rep. Ryan. “Mr. Booker dedicated his life’s work to breaking barriers and changing the hearts and minds of all those he touched through his writing. He was a true American hero who deserves a place in the history books." “Simeon Booker dedicated his career to covering the civil rights movement and achieved many firsts in his field. We're proud that Mr. Booker started his journalism career in Youngstown and believe he's a worthy recipient of the Congressional Gold Medal,” said Rep. Joyce. Simeon Booker began his career covering Negro League baseball for the Youngstown Vindicator. In 1950, he received the Nieman Fellowship to study journalism and develop his talent as a reporter. After one year at Harvard, Booker became the first full-time African-American reporter at the Washington Post. In 1955, he helped advance the civil rights movement with his famous coverage of the Emmett Till murder and trial—turning a common occurrence in the Deep South into a national tragedy for all to see. In 1961, he rode with the Congress On Racial Equality (CORE) Freedom Riders through the Deep South. When they were firebombed and beaten by the Ku Klux Klan in Alabama, Booker arranged for their rescue by calling U.S. Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy. Simeon Booker is often celebrated as the “Dean of the Black Press.” He covered every presidential election since 1953 and was the author of two highly-acclaimed books: Shocking the Conscience: A Reporter’s Account of the Civil Rights Movement and Black Man’s America. His honors and awards included the Nieman Fellowship, Harvard University 1950; President of the Capitol Press Club, 1956; Fourth Estate Award, National Press Club, 1982: Hall of Fame, Washington Chapter of Sigma Delta Chi and Washington, D.C. 1984; Master Communicators Award, National Black Media Coalition, 1998; Phoenix Award, Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, 2010; Hall of Fame, National Association of Black Journalists, 2013.
02.22.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) signed on as an original co-sponsor to a privileged resolution terminating President Trump’s invocation of the National Emergencies Act for the border wall. The National Emergency Act Termination Resolution was introduced today. “Article 1, Section 9 of the U.S. Constitution says ‘No Money shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in Consequences of Appropriations made by Law.’ Congress has the power of the purse, and President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency for an ineffective, expensive wall subverts that power of Congress and undermines our constitution. There is no national emergency. And as a member of the Military Construction committee, it’s outrageous the President is taking 35 percent of the Mil Con budget that’s supposed to fund military projects, housing, and facilities. The President cannot be allowed to continue this political charade, and I join my colleagues in blocking Trump’s emergency declaration,” said Congressman Ryan.
02.19.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) reintroduced the Working on Rewarding and Keeping Employees Resilient (WORKER) Act, a sweeping economic bill aimed at resolving prominent challenges to American labor and job markets. This ‘GI Bill for American Workers’ focuses on workforce development and supporting the American worker by addressing jobs, wage stagnation, and continued layoffs as a result of outsourcing and automation. Last year, Congressman Ryan released a comprehensive report titled Putting America Back To Work, which outlines of some of the twenty-first century’s greatest challenges towards our changing economy. “The new American economy does not exist in the past, but in the future. Our economy continues to change, but many of our friends, neighbors, and family members continue to grapple with a lack of jobs, wage stagnation, or continued layoffs. While the economy is humming along nicely for the top wage-earners in our society, it is broken for just about everyone else. The system no longer works for the American worker. We need bold action. My WORKER Act is just that. The bill addresses the rise of automation and technological advancements beginning with the education of our students, sustaining them with resources for continuous training and job security, and increasing investment in distressed communities to create jobs,” said Congressman Ryan. “For being the wealthiest nation on earth, too many Americans are struggling with the realities of everyday life—paying their bills, caring for their family, putting food on the table, and keeping a roof over their head. The future of our economy, and of the American Dream, rests on our ability to alleviate this struggle by innovating and creating new, good-paying jobs where they are needed most. The WORKER Act will do just that.” Representatives Ro Khanna (CA-17), Yvette D. Clarke (NY-9), Bennie G. Thompson (MS-2), Darren Soto (FL-9) were original cosponsors of the legislation, which was also endorsed by the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce and the United Automobile Workers. “The WORKER Act is a strong step in the right direction for our economy and will help communities left behind to thrive. By providing future generations with the skills they need to compete and succeed in the 21st Century these grant programs will support engineering technology education programs in elementary and secondary schools,” said Rep. Khanna (CA-17). “For far too long, Americans have struggled to keep up and get ahead. As inequality continues to widen, the rich are getting richer while middle and working-class families struggle to make ends meet. Our system is broken and far too many families are being left behind. The WORKER Act takes bold action to empower the American workforce. I’m proud to be an original co-sponsor of the WORKER Act and encourage my colleagues to support this legislation. Let’s pass this right away,” said Rep. Clarke (NY-9). “There should not be anyone struggling to pay bills or provide for their families in the wealthiest nation in the world. I support the WORKER Act because it provides a foundational pathway for generations of Americans to succeed in our rapidly changing economy. This legislation is long overdue,” said Rep. Thompson (MS-2). “Globalization and emerging technologies have the profound potential to benefit society and be a driver of economic growth. As we adapt to a changing economy, we must keep the welfare of American workers at the forefront of our legislative priorities. I’m proud to join Rep. Ryan and colleagues in support of the WORKER Act to provide the necessary tools and continue empowering our American workforce,” said Rep. Soto (FL-9). “We recognize that the WORKER Act will advance the American economy for the betterment of all American people regardless of demographic or political affiliation. This bill takes important steps towards providing distressed communities, underrepresented minorities, women, and all American workers with the skills and opportunities necessary to thrive in the modern economy,” Ramiro Cavazos, United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce President & CEO. The WORKER Act takes bold action to empower the American workforce and their families by making provisions for some of the following: Gives our children the skills they need to succeed in the 21st Century by creating grant programs to support engineering and engineering technology education programs in elementary and secondary schools. It also expands maker education and makerspaces in schools. Promotes and expands registered apprenticeships to encourage industry growth, competitiveness and collaboration to improve worker training, retention and advancement in targeted infrastructure clusters. Establishes a Registered Apprenticeship-College Collaborative to promote stronger relationships between registered apprenticeship programs and 2 and 4-year post-secondary educational institutions. Encourages greater diversity in registered apprenticeship programs through outreach to underrepresented populations, youth, and veterans. Incentivizes reemployment by creating a reemployment bonus for individuals currently receiving unemployment benefits. Eases the wage transition for older workers by creating wage insurance for individuals 50 and over. And in economically distressed communities for individuals 45 and over. Creates a training voucher for $8,000 to ensure every American can attend a short-term training program to receive the skills necessary to succeed. Makes finding a job easier for families who are struggling with everyday challenges like transportation and child care by providing a stipend for income support services. Establishes a new Department within the Department of Commerce with the mission of promoting, establishing, and strengthening venture capital investment in distressed communities, including expenses of grants, contracts, and other agreements with public or private entities. Designates that the Department of Commerce and the Secretary of Commerce should know be known as the Department of Innovation and Investment and Secretary of Innovation and Investment. You may also read the full report, Putting America Back To Work, here.
02.19.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13), joined by US Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Rob Portman (R-OH) and Representatives Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) and Marcia Fudge (OH-11), announced the U.S. Navy has finalized the contract to build the USS Cleveland, a Freedom Variant Littoral Combat Ship, and will soon commence construction. The USS Cleveland will be built by Fincantieri Marinette Marine Corporation on the shores of the Great Lakes in Marinette, Wisconsin and will hold the hull number LCS 31. Over the past five years, Fincantieri Marinette has sub-contracted $14,562,573 to 14 Ohio contractors and suppliers. Upon the ship’s successful completion, the ship will be commissioned at the Port of Cleveland before joining its fleet in Mayport, Florida. “This fourth edition of the USS Cleveland will continue a long line of Navy warships that honor Cleveland, Ohio. I am proud that as one of the newest Littoral Combat Ships, the USS Cleveland will project American Naval might throughout the world and reflect the same great qualities of America’s heartland – strength, adaptability and tenacity,” said Congressman Ryan. “It’s fitting that the U.S. Navy chose Cleveland to represent American strength and resilience. Northeast Ohioans have a long, proud history of serving our country and this ship will pay tribute to our servicemembers, veterans and their families,” said Senator Brown. “I’m proud to see the Navy has named Littoral Combat Ship 31 after the great city of Cleveland. Our brave men and women of the United States Navy deserve the best, most advanced weapons systems in the world and this ship will be cutting edge, with state-of-the-art technology and weapons systems. LCS 31 will be fourth ship to bear the name of the great city of Cleveland, and we look forward to her christening in 2023,” said Senator Portman. “The USS Cleveland will not only honor the great city of Cleveland, it will also honor the brave servicemembers past and present who call the city home. It’s so fitting that this ship will be built on the shores of the Great Lakes, where many hardworking Ohioans are expected to contribute to the ship’s construction. When it comes to the security and defense of our great nation, the patriotic citizens of Ohio will always be there,” said Rep. Kaptur. “It is not a coincidence that this is the fourth time the Navy has chosen to name their newest combat ship after our city. Cleveland is a city full of proud, resilient people. Together, we thrive in the face of adversity, despite our individual circumstances. The U. S. Navy honors the patriotic and hard-working residents of our great city with the naming of the USS Cleveland – a great littoral combat ship,” said Rep. Fudge. “This is another step in bringing the future USS Cleveland to life with identifying the ship’s hull number of LCS 31. Our Navy has a long and storied history in and around the City of Cleveland and the Sailors of our future namesake will take on the tremendous task of carrying on a legacy of naval excellence, while maintaining the traditions and heritage that come with such distinction,” said Under Secretary of the Navy Thomas B. Modly. Ohio contractors and suppliers who have worked with Fincantieri Marinette Marine Corporation in the past five years are: WESCO Distribution Incorporated (Cincinnati) The Hellan Strainer Company (Cleveland) PBM Inc (Cleveland) Lease Administration Center (Mason) RFD Beaufort Inc (Canton) ESMET Inc (Canton) DFAS-CO JDCBB (Columbus) Capital City Group Inc (Columbus) Carlisle & Finch Co (Cincinnati) HDT Engineering Services (Solon) Acquisition Logistics Engineering (Columbus) National Brass (Columbus) Corrosion Fluid Products (Cincinnati) Kaman Fluid Power LLC (Akron)
02.15.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) sent a letter to Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos urging him to build the company’s second headquarters in Northeast Ohio. Yesterday, Amazon announced that it was cancelling its plans to build its second headquarters in New York. “Northeast Ohio is a perfect fit for Amazon to build its second headquarters. We’re home to over 8 million people and have a strong, reliable transportation infrastructure with easy access to four major airports and state-of-the art ports. We’ve built a business-friendly environment and have an extensive web of renowned colleges and universities that can provide top talent to help Amazon succeed and grow into the future. We have people here ready to work, and the dedication and commitment they show every day is second to none. I will work with Jeff Bezos and leaders in our community to make this a reality. And I hope Amazon can consider Northeast Ohio as their newest home,” said Congressman Ryan. The full letter is below or can be viewed here: February 15, 2019 Mr. Jeffery Bezos Founder, President, CEO & ChairmanAmazon.com, Inc. 410 Terry Avenue North Seattle, Washington 98109 Dear Mr. Bezos, With the recent news of Amazon’s decision to not locate a headquarters in New York City, I am writing to urge you to consider Northeast Ohio for your second headquarters. The Northeast Ohio region is home to over 8 million people. Many of these individuals and families live within an hour commute of a major metropolitan area, including Cleveland, Akron, Youngstown, and Pittsburgh. This region is within 600 miles of 60% of the entire U.S. population as well as 70% of all U.S. and Canadian manufacturing. Transportation is key, and Northeast OH and Western PA have easy access to four major airports and state-of-the art ports. The region is home to a business-friendly environment and has an extensive web of renowned colleges and universities that would sprint to provide the talent that would be critical to the success of your project. These attributes, along with strong support from state and local governments and economic development organizations, make this region a strong candidate for this project. I am fully committed to helping to aid in the job growth of the region. The potential multi-billion-dollar investment and influx of thousands of jobs would have an astronomical impact for not only the region but both the States of Ohio and Pennsylvania. In a time of great income inequality and many American communities being left behind by globalization and automation, this is an opportunity for Amazon to be a corporate leader in helping set the example for a more conscious free enterprise system. This investment would plug in a region of America that boomed during the Industrial Age but has lagged economically since the decline of steel and auto. Our people don’t want a handout, they want a hand up. You can singlehandedly transform this region and plug millions of Americans into the economy, and we can help you continue to build your company with a skilled and motivated workforce. I urge you to reconsider Northeast Ohio for this investment, and I would like to extend an invitation for you to meet me at your convenience. I can promise you that you will receive a much better reception than you have in other areas. Let’s show America what we can do when we work together. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
02.14.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) today rebukes President Trump’s planned declaration of a national emergency to fund the construction of a wall across our southern border. In response to this executive overreach, Ryan introduced legislation today to create a nonpartisan, nine-member commission to review and assess the U.S. immigration system and border security. The Commission would make recommendations to Congress for improving security at borders and ports of entry and reform of the immigration system at large. While Congressman Ryan supports the compromise to fund the government, it does not fix our broken immigration system; and a national emergency is not how you address border security. Congressman Ryan’s Commission will develop non-partisan, expert-informed solutions for comprehensive immigration reform and border security and finally come to a long-term solution for this critical issue. To view the bill, click here. “During the State of the Union, we saw the President’s inability to have a serious and measured discussion on how to fix our country’s broken immigration system and ensure our borders are secure. Inflammatory and divisive rhetoric does not encourage bipartisanship or pave a productive path forward. While I support the compromise to keep the government open, President Trump should not be using the declaration of a national emergency to address border security. We aren’t going to solve this through an executive overreach; we need targeted, fact-based solutions. My legislation creates a nonpartisan commission to examine the current state of U.S. border security screening programs, technology, and physical infrastructure, as well as operations related to drug interdiction, migrant detention, and the processing of asylum seekers and refugees. Consistent with our values, the bill directs the Commission to consider the protection of the human rights of immigrants, asylum seekers, and refugees in its assessment. The Commission will also examine every aspect of our immigration system—from visas lotteries and immigration courts to DREAMers and a pathway to citizenship. The Commission will then make informed, nonpartisan recommendations to Congress from which we can develop comprehensive immigration reform legislation. “We need to prioritize good policy over politics. That’s why the Commission will not include any current elected officials or political appointees. We have to put an end to the endless bickering, grandstanding, and fearmongering that too often accompanies a debate over immigration reform, DACA, asylum seekers, and border security. If we fail to address these issues now, they will only divide our country further. ” said Congressman Ryan.
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressmen Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Guy Reschenthaler (R-PA) announced they will be co-chairing a bipartisan Military Mental Health Task Force. This task force serves as a group of those in the House who are dedicated to addressing issues pertaining to military mental health and suicide prevention. “I’m proud to continue to stand with members of our active duty Armed Services and veterans community as the Co-Chairman to the Military Mental Health Task Force. I look forward to working alongside our newest Co-Chairman, Congressman Guy Reschenthaler,” said Congressman Ryan. “The mental health of our military servicemembers and veterans is an extremely important issue that needs to be addressed. The critical work from this task force will help in educating Congress and the general public in how to help those who have risked their lives for our country.” “Too many members of our nation’s military suffer from mental illness upon their return to civilian life. I look forward to working with Rep. Ryan to increase awareness and work towards solutions that can improve the mental health of heroes who served our nation,” stated Reschenthaler. The Military Mental Health Task Force will host several briefings/roundtable discussions with subject matter experts, disseminate information, and provide resources to Members and their staff so they can learn about the challenges facing America’s former and current Service members and their families. The task force will be part of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, co-chaired by Reps. John Katko (R-NY) and Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA). “Mental health issues affect Americans of all backgrounds, and members of our military are no exception,” Rep. John Katko stated. “Congress must take initiative to support our military servicemembers struggling with mental illness. I welcome the addition of the Military Mental Health Task Force to the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, and look forward to working with Congressman Reschenthaler and Congressman Ryan on mental health issues facing our brave military members.” “Congress must work to ensure comprehensive mental health services for all who serve our nation in uniform and their families,” Napolitano said. “This must include identification and treatments of Post-Traumatic Stress and Traumatic Brain Injury, as invisible wounds of war often go unnoticed before it is too late. I thank Congressmen Reschenthaler and Ryan for their dedication to improving the mental well-being of members of the military, veterans, and their families, and I look forward to working with them on behalf of the Mental Health Caucus.”
02.09.2019	Warren, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) today awarded the Purple Heart to Army Specialist Leo H. Connelly, who served during the Vietnam War. On June 18, 1967, Leo was attempting a rescue of a wounded comrade lying beside what he thought was a dead enemy combatant. The combatant grabbed Leo, who sustained a cut to the left arm and was stabbed on his right side. Despite his injuries, Leo was still able to rescue his injured comrade before returning to the front line to continue the operation. “Army Specialist Leo H. Connelly Jr. is the epitome of courage, honor, and integrity. There are not enough awards or accolades to show how truly grateful we are for the sacrifice he made for our country during the Vietnam War. We are forever indebted to him. Here at home, Leo has gone above and beyond with his work and commitment to helping veterans in Youngstown and all across Ohio. It is this type of exceptional service that truly defines American patriotism—and Leo is second to none. He has served on the Mahoning County Veteran Services Commission, been inducted into the Ohio Military Hall of Fame, been honored as the Mahoning County United Veterans Council’s 2011 Veteran of the Year, and named the Second Brigade Motorcycle Club of Ohio 2012 Honoree of the Year. This Purple Heart is long overdue, but I am thankful that Leo is finally receiving the honor and recognition he deserves,” said Congressman Ryan.
02.09.2019	Warren, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) announced today that 13 local students have been nominated to attend national service academies. Each year, Congressman Ryan nominates some of the best and brightest students from Ohio’s 13th Congressional District to U.S. military academies. “This year, I am proud to nominate 13 young men and women to be considered for acceptance to our nation’s service academies. Once again, it was a very competitive and impressive group of applicants. Each one of them excels both academically and personally, as students and as leaders in their communities,”said Congressman Ryan. “These young people are beginning a journey that will test them physically and mentally. Our service academies will develop them into leaders not only for our military, but for our world. Our future is bright in their hands, and I am grateful to have the privilege to nominate them. I have no doubt they will make our country proud.” Each nominee completed an application and interviewed with the 13th District Nomination Committee, and the group was honored by Congressman Ryan at a ceremony on Saturday, February 9th at the Trumbull County Veteran's Service Commission. The nominees are: Andrew Addy Military Academy at West Point Son of Amy Ferrara Hubbard High School Augustino Arcuri Military Academy at West Point Son of Neal & Cynthia Arcuri Boardman High School James Burley Jackson Naval Academy Son of Bettina Burley-Jackson Campbell Memorial High School Dominic Carone Military Academy at West Point Son of Tony & Beth Carone Streetsboro High School & United States Military Academy Preparatory School Richard Eyre III Military Academy at West Point Son of Richard & Cara Eyre Tallmadge High School Sabria Hunter Military Academy at West Point Daughter of Robert & Christina Hunter Austintown Fitch High School Owen Lewis Naval Academy Son of Michael & Johnna Lewis Ursuline High School Joseph Macciomei Military Academy at West Point Son of Frank & Lisa Macciomei Struthers High School Dakota Miller Naval Academy Son of Darrell & Katie Miller Tallmadge High School Delaney Pollak Air Force Academy Daughter of Stephen and Cheryl Pollak Boardman High School & Youngstown State University Nicholas Sabetta Naval Academy Son of James & Kimberly Sabetta Tallmadge High School Michael Schaefer Naval Academy Son of Chris and Maria Schaefer Howland High School & Youngstown State University Scott Seeker Military Academy at West Point Son of Donald and Tracy Tallmadge High School & United States Military Academy Preparatory School
02.08.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) issued the following statement regarding the sentencing of Claudia Hoerig. She received life in prison with parole eligibility after 28 years for murdering her husband, Karl Hoerig. “Claudia Hoerig has finally been brought to justice. I hope today’s sentencing provides the Hoerig family the closure they so deeply deserve. The past ten years have not been easy on them, but they continued to stay strong and had faith in each other and our justice system. Today could not have been possible without the hard work and dedication of Trumbull County Prosecutor Dennis Watkins and his team. And thank you to former Congressman John Boccieri for his tireless work throughout the past decade. It’s through the effort of every person involved in this case that we were able to get to this end result. Although this chapter comes to a close, we will never forget Karl Hoerig and the impact he has had on our community,” said Congressman Ryan. Congressman Ryan’s Action Timeline on the Claudia Hoerig Case: (PRESS RELEASE) January 24, 2019 Ryan Statement on Claudia Hoerig Guilty Verdict (PRESS RELEASE) September 7, 2018 Ryan Statement on Delay of Claudia Hoerig Trial (PRESS RELEASE) January 18, 2018 Ryan Statement on Extradition of Claudia Hoerig (PRESS RELEASE) May 3, 2017 Ryan Urges President Trump to Assist in Carl Hoerig Extradition (PRESS RELEASE) March 13, 2017 Ryan Mark Ten Year Anniversary of Karl Hoerig Murder (PRESS RELEASE) April 20, 2016 Ryan and Watkins Announce Major Breakthrough in Hoerig Case (PRESS RELEASE) June 29, 2015 Ryan Calls on Brazilian President to Extradite Hoerig (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 15, 2015 Ryan introduces ‘End Immuity for Brazilian Criminals Act’ (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 15, 2015 Ryan introduces ‘Karl Hoerig Foreign Aid Suspension Act’ (PRESS RELEASE) July 31, 2013 Brazil Revokes Hoerig’s Citizenship (PRESS RELEASE) July 31, 2013 Brazil Revokes Hoerig’s Citizenship (VIDEO) June 5, 2013 Ryan speaks on House Floor on Amendment to Restrict Brazilian Immigrant Visas (PRESS RELEASE) May 22, 2013 Ryan introduces Amendment to restrict immigrant visas for Brazilians (PRESS RELEASE) April 22, 2013 Ryan Questions Former Defense Secretary Hagel (VIDEO) April 17, 2013 Ryan protests Brazilian contract during Defense Appropriations Hearing over Hoerig Case (LETTER) March 12, 2013 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Mauro Vieira (BILL INTRODUCTION) February 14, 2013 Ryan Introduces "End Immunity for Brazilian Criminals Act" and the "Karl Hoerig Foreign Aid Suspension Act” (VIDEO) June 7, 2012 Ryan Spoke on House Floor on Claudia Hoerig and Brazilian Visa Amendment (LETTER) July 27, 2011 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 21, 2011 Ryan introduces Brazilian Foreign Aid Fairness Act (LETTER) May 26, 2011 letter to Mary Warlow, U.S. Director of International Affairs, Dept. of Justice (link is external) (LETTER) March 3, 2011 letter to U.S. President Barack Obama (link is external) (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 11, 2009 Ryan introduces Ryan-Boccieri Hoerig Resolution (LETTER) March 4, 2009 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to U.S. Ambassador to Brazil Clifford Sobrel(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to President of the Senate Garilbaldi Alves(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to Brazilian President Lula da Silva(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to Brazilian Chamber of Deputies President Arlindo Chinaglia (link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Patriota(link is external) (VIDEO) April 3, 2008 Ryan facilitates AMVETS Commander to speak on Hoerig Case (MEETING) December 18, 2007 Ryan meets with Brazilian Officials regarding Hoerig Case (LETTER) November 29, 2007 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Patriota (link is external) (LETTER) November 27, 2007 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Patriota (link is external) (LETTER) November 20, 2007 letter to Brazilian Foreign Minister Amorim (link is external) (LETTER) May 4, 2007 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice(link is external) (LETTER) May 4, 2007 letter to U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales(link is external) Letters Received:October 24. 2011 letter from the Brazillian Ambassador to the United States of America, Mauro VieiraSeptember 19, 2011 letter from the State Department Assistant Secretary for Legislative AffairsFebruary 24, 2009 letter from the State Department Office of Legislative Affairs(link is external)May 23, 2008 letter from the State Department Office of Legislative Affairs(link is external)December 21, 2007 letter from the Brazil Ministry of External Relations(link is external)December 17, 2007 letter from the U.S. State Department(link is external)December 17, 2007 letter from Brazillian Ambassador Patriota(link is external)
02.06.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13), Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Congressman Bill Pascrell (NJ-09), Congressman Jared Golden (ME-02), and Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) responded to President Trump’s State of the Union speech in which he praised his NAFTA 2.0 agreement. The text of the agreement—which many House Democrats have urged needs to be changed to address issues on prescription drug costs, labor and environmental standards, and outsourcing incentives—was signed by all three nations on November 30, 2018. “While I continue to be supportive of renegotiating NAFTA, what I have seen so far does not do enough to protect the hardworking men and women of my district,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “For far too long, I have seen firsthand how unfair trade agreements have harmed our manufacturing industry in Ohio and across the United States. Just this week the GM plant in my district started its first round of layoffs. I join with my colleagues in urging that a new NAFTA deal must protect workers’ rights and freedoms, create strong environmental standards, include substantive provisions to end outsourcing incentives, strengthen enforcement mechanisms, and increase access to affordable prescription drugs.” “With a national audience watching, President Trump failed to move the needle on the changes necessary to protect American workers and consumers in his NAFTA 2.0 agreement,” said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro. “Democrats would be willing to support a deal that puts working people first by ending outsourcing incentives and sets forth a trade template that supports American workers. However, the text is simply not there yet. As it stands, this deal locks in monopoly rights for Big Pharma, effectively ensuring that drug prices will remain high by providing giveaways to pharmaceutical companies. If the President is serious about reducing the cost of prescription drugs, this issue must be addressed. This provision—along with strong, enforceable labor and environmental provisions that ensure workers are paid a fair wage and environmental concerns are addressed—will require changes to the core of the agreement. I appreciate the work United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer has put in throughout this process, and I look forward to continuing discussions on making these important changes to support American workers and their families.” “Last night, President Trump called on Democrats to work with him on prescription drug reform,” said Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky. “He also asked us to support NAFTA 2.0. What he failed to say is that these things are fundamentally at odds with each other. NAFTA 2.0, as written, will keep prescription drug costs high, and Americans will get poorer and sicker, as a result. Worse, it would tie Congress’ hands and prevent us from addressing the issue of drug costs. The President must re-open NAFTA 2.0 and work with House Democrats to ensure the new NAFTA works for working families in America.” “NAFTA has caused harm to our workers and our manufacturing industries. So I welcomed a renegotiation that makes meaningful reforms for American workers and families,” said Congressman Bill Pascrell, Jr. “The jury is out on whether Trump’s deal will bring jobs back to the United States. But this administration must work with House Democrats to improve labor standards and enforceability in the agreement before it can be considered for approval.” “I agree with the president that NAFTA has failed working Americans, but his NAFTA 2.0 proposal is more of the same,” said Congressman Jared Golden. “Putting a new paint job on the old NAFTA won’t work. Without significant changes to this proposal, Maine will see the last two decades repeated: closed mills, outsourced jobs, and stagnant wages. If the president is serious about protecting American jobs, I’ll work with him to overhaul NAFTA so that it defends Maine workers and forces Canada and Mexico to play by the rules.” “For President Trump to declare victory on trade is dishonest and premature,” said Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur. “Since the President took office, thousands of manufacturing workers across the heartland, including in my northern Ohio district, have been idled or laid off from their jobs in important keystone industries such as auto and steel as a result of senseless tariffs, closed off markets, and bad trade deals like NAFTA, while trade deficits increase. The American people deserve a fair trade agreement that brings jobs back, raises wages, improves working standards, and creates opportunities for workers in our communities. I stand ready to work with anyone who shares that same commitment. For the past two years I have urged the President to work closely with Congress to renegotiate NAFTA, there is no better time for collaboration to find a NAFTA 2.0 solution that benefits workers across our continent.”
02.05.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) issued the following statement after attending President Trump’s State of the Union address. Congressman Ryan’s guest was GM Lordstown United Auto Workers Local 1112 President Dave Green. “Unity and optimism. That’s how the White House described the tone of the President’s State of the Union address ahead of his speech. But in reality, tonight’s display was anything but unifying and optimistic. The devil is in the details, and it goes beyond reading a rehearsed speech in front of two teleprompters. The President is singing the same tune by calling again for an unnecessary, expensive wall across our entire southern border. The vast majority of Americans don’t want this wall, and we shouldn’t make taxpayers foot the bill for a vanity project that the President promised would be paid for by Mexico. “The President likes talking about deals, but he isn’t willing to meet Democrats in the middle. Let me be clear: Democrats are for border security. But $5.7 billion is better spent integrating technology on our border, increasing security at our ports of entry, and updating existing structures. That’s why I have called for a non-partisan border security commission. Let’s get this out of the political sphere and create a non-partisan committee that can present a comprehensive plan to Congress for securing our borders and fixing our immigration system. “Unfortunately, the President’s obsession with a wall is preventing us from addressing some important issues in our country. My guest for the State of the Union, Dave Green, is here to highlight one of these important issues—the loss of good-paying, middle-class manufacturing jobs. Dave is the president of UAW Local 1112 and represents the thousands of General Motors employees being laid off next month from GM Lordstown.Two years ago, President Trump came to Northeast Ohio and promised my constituents manufacturing jobs were coming back. Yet so far, President Trump has ignored numerous calls from Dave and myself to honor his promise and help save GM Lordstown. We need more than tweets; we need action. I am committed to working with President Trump, General Motors, the UAW, and anyone willing to fight for GM Lordstown and the hard-working people who have dedicated their lives to it. “American needs to get back on track, and that can start with Democrats and Republicans working together where we can. That includes lowering drug prices, rebuilding aging infrastructure, and putting Americans back to work. Our country deserves a government whose first priority is to make their lives better, and it’s my hope that Congress and President Trump can find common ground and move our country forward,” said Congressman Ryan.
02.04.2019	Youngstown, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) today announced a $3,315,018 grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to be awarded to Portage Learning Centers for their Head Start Programs. To view the full grant award information, click here. “I couldn’t be more pleased that these funds will be going to those children most in need in Portage County. This critical investment will bring real and lasting good to our community,” said Congressman Ryan. “These funds will continue essential services that enhance cognitive, social and emotional development for Portage County children. Head Start has a proven track record of success around the country, and this program is critical in providing access to early educational opportunities to so many of our underprivileged children and their families. “We are excited to receive this award from HHS for Head Start Programs. Head Start/Early Head Start (EHS) are comprehensive child development programs serving 240 preschool children in Head Start and 84 families in Early Head Start. Early Head Start provides services to pregnant women and children birth to three. Head Start/EHS is a federal program that promotes the school readiness of children ages birth to five by enhancing their cognitive, social and emotional development. Services also include health, nutrition, social services, and early childhood education for low income children and their families. During PLC’s most recent monitoring review in 2018, the program received special recognition from the Director of the Office of Head Start regarding the program’s outstanding performance related to classroom operations and their ability to manage both the emotional and social support of children,” said Suzanne Livengood, Portage Learning Centers Executive Director.
02.01.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Congressman Steven Palazzo (R-MS) have reintroduced the Reserve Component Employer Incentive, Compensation, and Relief Act of 2019 in the U.S. House of Representatives. By providing employers with a tax credit aimed to offset costs accrued and hardships undertaken when employees that are members of the National Guard and Reserves are activated, this legislation incentivizes employers to hire and retain Guard members and reservists. “Employers who hire National Guardsmen or Reservists do so with the knowledge that these employees may need to miss work for training or answer the call to defend our country,” said Congressman Ryan. “This legislation will provide these patriotic employers with well-warranted compensation for hiring servicemembers who sacrifice so much for our nation. Maintaining this partnership between our country and employers is critical to the security of our nation.” “Often times National Guardsmen and Reservists have unique demands that require them to drop everything and respond to their sworn military duties. This bill is a step in the right direction to provide relief for the employers that sometimes must choose between their own bottom line and patriotic duty to hire service members,” said Congressman Palazzo. Having transitioned from a “Strategic Reserve” to an “Operational Reserve,” the National Guard and Reserve is fully integrated in ongoing national security missions around the globe. This transition has led to increased training requirements which go beyond the statutorily required 39 days of annual training to requirements totaling 80 or more days per year. Moreover, tax credits in the past have been targeted at too small a population and were too small monetarily to truly incentivize companies and small business to hire members of the National Guard and Reserves. Further, a study conducted by Members of the Minnesota National Guard enrolled in the Hubert H. Humphrey Fellowship Program at the University of Minnesota found the following: Whether big or small, employers are very patriotic and willing to shoulder an inordinate burden, but all agreed that there should be some type of benefit/compensation provided. 30 days of continual absence is the threshold that causes issues for employers of all sizes. Employers prefer a continuous absence versus many small absences (60 days vs. multiple 2-4-week periods). Absences for training causes more friction than absence for a deployment. Small businesses that employ Reserve Component service members would benefit the most from any employer compensation model. Rarely do employers hire temporary employees to cover the reservist’s absence from the workplace. Work often must be picked up by fellow employees. For the first time, the Reserve Component Employer Incentive, Compensation, and Relief Act provides long overdue continuous benefits for all employers of actively serving members of the Reserve Component and provides a scalable benefit for those employers that experience extended absences of employees for military service. The Reserve Component Employer Incentive, Compensation, and Relief Act is endorsed by the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States (EANGUS) and the National Guard Association of the United States (NGAUS). “EANGUS applauds Representative Tim Ryan for reintroducing the Reserve Component Employer Incentive Compensation and Relief Act that provides employers an annual tax credit for every Reservist/Guardsman employed. As Citizen-Soldiers, our members heavily rely on their employers for supporting their families and maintaining their jobs when deployed or in training. This common sense bill enhances the significant role employers play in military readiness. We strongly support this legislation,” said retired Sgt. Maj. Frank Yoakum, EANGUS executive director. “This is a potential game-changer for employers who hire Guardsmen and Reservists or who are considering one for a position,” said retried Brig. Gen. J. Roy Robinson, the NGAUS president. “Not only would it compensate employers for the loss of valuable employees to training or a deployment, it also recognizes the contributions of Guard and Reserve employers to the defense and security of our nation. We enthusiastically support the Reserve Component Employer Incentive, Compensation, and Relief Act.” Specifically, the Reserve Component Employer Incentive, Compensation, and Relief Act of 2019 accomplishes the following: Amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide a reservist employment credit. An employer can elect to have the tax credit not apply. The credit amount is equal to the sum of the credit for each reservist employed by an eligible employer during the taxable year. The reservist credit amount is equal to $1,000 plus an additional amount dependent on the days of service in uniform during such year. - 30 to 89 days of service equates to $3,000 - 90 to 179 days of service equates to $5,000 - 180 plus days of service equates to $10,000 A key difference between the Reserve Component Employer Incentive, Compensation, and Relief Act and similar past efforts is that this tax credit applies to all employers that hire and employ actively serving members of the Reserve Component. To learn more about the Reserve Component Employer Incentive, Compensation, and Relief Act of 2019, click here for the full bill text.
01.31.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s executive order, “Strengthening Buy-American Preferences for Infrastructure Projects.” The executive order asks federal agencies to encourage government contractors who receive federal money for infrastructure projects to use American-made materials and products, including iron, steel, aluminum, and concrete. “This is a step in the right direction, but we need to do more. The government shouldn't be the only ones investing in American products. Private companies should as well. The scattershot approach to manufacturing policy that we have seen from this Administration isn’t going to cut it, we need a comprehensive strategy that moves our country forward. I will continue to work to bolster the manufacturing sector across the United States,” said Congressman Ryan.
01.29.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) applauded a federal court decision to extend benefits to Blue Water Navy Veterans exposed to dioxin, also known as Agent Orange, during the Vietnam War. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit voted 9 to 2 in favor of the Navy Veterans. “I am extremely grateful the federal court voted in favor of the Blue Water Navy Veterans today. This is long overdue. Our veterans put their lives on the line to protect our freedoms and our country, and it’s a shame that they were denied the benefits they rightly deserve for far too long,” said Congressman Ryan. “We pride ourselves in the strength, courage, and service of our veterans, it’s time our country upholds its promise and provide them the care they have earned.” In June 2018, the House unanimously passed the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act (HR 299) with a vote of 382-0. In August 2018, Congressman Ryan wrote to U.S. Veterans Affairs Under Secretary for Benefits Paul Lawrence urging him to reconsider his opposition to the House bill. In December 2018, Congressman Ryan called on the U.S. Senate to pass the bill.
01.28.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) looks forward to attending the State of the Union Address on Tuesday, February 5th. Congressman Ryan’s guest for the State of the Union will be UAW Local 1112 President Dave Green. Green has served as president since May 2018. UAW Local 1112 represents General Motors (GM) workers at the Lordstown plant – which was one of five North American plants GM announced they were closing. “I’m honored to bring Dave Green as my guest to the State of the Union this year. Since GM’s announcement to close the Lordstown plant, he’s been working around-the-clock to support GM workers and advocate for a new product at the facility. Dave will be representing the hundreds of laid off GM Lordstown workers who deserve to be seen and heard. I thank him for his leadership, and I can’t imagine a better partner in this fight to save GM Lordstown,” said Congressman Ryan. “I’m proud to represent the hundreds of dedicated workers at GM Lordstown who have been affected by the announcement to place this plant on unallocated status. I look forward to attending the State of the Union and representing the values of our hard-working men and women. Our voices deserve to be heard,” said Dave Green, UAW Local 1112. Congressman Ryan supported delaying the State of the Union until the government was reopened.
01.25.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s announcement of a temporary, three-week CR funding the government till February 15. “Make no mistake, President Trump could have done this BEFORE he shutdown the government, avoiding the pain and heartache we have endured as a country. From day one of the new Congress, Democrats have worked to reopen the government. It took President Trump 35 days to finally come to his senses and put people back to work and get them paid. This three week-funding bill is a brief sigh of relief, but we need a long term solution. It’s my hope that Democrats and Republicans can come to the table and work together to address the pressing issues facing our country, while funding our government,” said Congressman Ryan. “I’ve said it once and I’ll say it again, a wall across our entire southern border will not work. We need to invest in technology, bolster our security at ports of entry, and identify the weak points at the southern border. But we’re not going to make the taxpayers foot the bill for a vanity project the President has endlessly bragged that Mexico would pay for. Ultimately, the conversations must be bipartisan and evidence-based.”
01.24.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) issued the following statement regarding Claudia Hoerig being found guilty of aggravated murder of her husband, Karl: “I am pleased that justice has been served in this monumental case. I want to thank Trumbull County Prosecutor Dennis Watkins and his team for their unwavering commitment and dedication to this case. I would also like to thank former Congressman John Boccieri for his longstanding efforts over the past decade. And a big thank you to the Hoerig family and support team for their cooperation and patience while we navigated a long and convoluted process to get Claudia extradited. Today could not have been possible without every person’s contribution – no matter how big or small. This has not been easy, but I hope today’s verdict delivers some sense of closure and justice to the Hoerig family,” said Congressman Ryan. Congressman Ryan’s Action Timeline on the Claudia Hoerig Case: (LETTER) May 4, 2007 letter to U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales(link is external) (LETTER) May 4, 2007 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice(link is external) (LETTER) November 20, 2007 letter to Brazilian Foreign Minister Amorim (link is external)(LETTER) November 27, 2007 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Patriota (link is external) (LETTER) November 29, 2007 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Patriota (link is external)(MEETING) December 18, 2007 Ryan meets with Brazilian Officials regarding Hoerig Case (VIDEO) April 3, 2008 Ryan facilitates AMVETS Commander to speak on Hoerig Case (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Patriota(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to Brazilian Chamber of Deputies President Arlindo Chinaglia (link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to Brazilian President Lula da Silva(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to President of the Senate Garilbaldi Alves(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to U.S. Ambassador to Brazil Clifford Sobrel(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice(link is external) (LETTER) March 4, 2009 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton(link is external) (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 11, 2009 Ryan introduces Ryan-Boccieri Hoerig Resolution (LETTER) March 3, 2011 letter to U.S. President Barack Obama (link is external) (LETTER) May 26, 2011 letter to Mary Warlow, U.S. Director of International Affairs, Dept. of Justice (link is external) (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 21, 2011 Ryan introduces Brazilian Foreign Aid Fairness Act (LETTER) July 27, 2011 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton (VIDEO) June 7, 2012 Ryan Spoke on House Floor on Claudia Hoerig and Brazilian Visa Amendment (BILL INTRODUCTION) February 14, 2013 Ryan Introduces "End Immunity for Brazilian Criminals Act" and the "Karl Hoerig Foreign Aid Suspension Act” (LETTER) March 12, 2013 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Mauro Vieira (VIDEO) April 17, 2013 Ryan protests Brazilian contract during Defense Appropriations Hearing over Hoerig Case (PRESS RELEASE) April 22, 2013 Ryan Questions Former Defense Secretary Hagel (PRESS RELEASE) May 22, 2013 Ryan introduces Amendment to restrict immigrant visas for Brazilians (VIDEO) June 5, 2013 Ryan speaks on House Floor on Amendment to Restrict Brazilian Immigrant Visas (PRESS RELEASE) July 31, 2013 Brazil Revokes Hoerig’s Citizenship (PRESS RELEASE) July 31, 2013 Brazil Revokes Hoerig’s Citizenship (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 15, 2015 Ryan introduces ‘Karl Hoerig Foreign Aid Suspension Act’ (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 15, 2015 Ryan introduces ‘End Immuity for Brazilian Criminals Act’ (PRESS RELEASE) June 29, 2015 Ryan Calls on Brazilian President to Extradite Hoerig (PRESS RELEASE) April 20, 2016 Ryan and Watkins Announce Major Breakthrough in Hoerig Case (PRESS RELEASE) March 13, 2017 Ryan Mark Ten Year Anniversary of Karl Hoerig Murder (PRESS RELEASE) May 3, 2017 Ryan Urges President Trump to Assist in Carl Hoerig Extradition (PRESS RELEASE) January 18, 2018 Ryan Statement on Extradition of Claudia Hoerig (PRESS RELEASE) September 7, 2018 Ryan Statement on Delay of Claudia Hoerig Trial Letters Received:December 17, 2007 letter from Brazillian Ambassador Patriota(link is external)December 17, 2007 letter from the U.S. State Department(link is external)December 21, 2007 letter from the Brazil Ministry of External Relations(link is external)January 23, 2008 letter from the Justice Department Office of Legislative Affairs(link is external)May 23, 2008 letter from the State Department Office of Legislative Affairs(link is external)February 24, 2009 letter from the State Department Office of Legislative Affairs(link is external)September 19, 2011 letter from the State Department Assistant Secretary for Legislative AffairsOctober 24. 2011 letter from the Brazillian Ambassador to the United States of America, Mauro Vieira
01.24.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) today ascended to Co-Chairman of the House National Guard and Reserve Caucus. He will join Co-Chairman Steven Palazzo (R-MS) in leading the caucus during the 116th Congress. “I’m honored to serve as the Co-Chairman of the National Guard and Reserve Caucus. As Ohio’s 13th district is home to Youngstown Air Reserve Station and Camp Ravenna, I understand the importance of ensuring our Guardsman and Reservists all across the nation are given the proper tools and necessary funding to carry out their work. I’m thankful for this opportunity to lead this caucus with Congressman Palazzo. Let’s get to work,” said Congressman Ryan. "I am proud to continue serving as the Co-Chairman of the National Guard and Reserve Caucus. I look forward to working alongside Congressman Tim Ryan who is our newest Co-Chair," said Palazzo. "As a current member of the Mississippi National Guard, it is my personal duty to ensure that every Guardsman and Reservist has an ever present voice in Congress. I will continue working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure we provide the necessary funding, equipment and resources for those who are ready to defend our homeland on a moment's notice." “Representative Ryan is an excellent choice to join Representative Palazzo as co-chairman of this caucus so important to the soldiers and airmen of the National Guard,” said retired Brig. Gen. J. Roy Robinson, the president of the National Guard Association of the United States. “He has long been a strong supporter of the Guard. He is familiar with the issues our forces face moving forward. And he has the respect of senior defense leaders. We look forward to working closely with two such dynamic and experienced legislators." "The Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States (EANGUS) welcomes the entire 116th Congress and especially those who are affiliated with and committed to the National Guard and Reserve Caucus in the House of Representatives, led by Representatives Tim Ryan and Steven Palazzo," said retired Sgt. Maj. Frank Yoakum, the executive director of the EANGUS. "The caucus has a history of achieving support for our Guard members and their families who live in every zip code in America. We look forward to partnering with Representatives Ryan and Palazzo as they lead the fight in the House, ensuring the Guard has the resources and manpower it needs to serve both in war and at home. United together we will advance bipartisan legislation that benefits our Citizen-Soldiers and Airmen of the National Guard." Formed in 1996, the House National Guard and Reserve Caucus was created to ensure that our National Guard and Reserve are sufficiently resourced to do their job both at home and abroad. Its mission is to ensure the Guard and Reserve have proper inputs on policy, procurement, force structure and utilization within the Department of Defense and Big Army. The Caucus would also like to extend its sincerest thanks to outgoing Chairman Congressman Tim Walz (D-MN), who served as co-chair for the 114th and 115th Congresses.
01.22.2019	Washington, DC – Congressmen Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Mike Conaway (R-TX) today reintroduced The Fair Trade with China Enforcement Act. This bipartisan legislation works to safeguard American assets from Chinese influence and possession, as well as protect American businesses from China’s tools of economic aggression. “Our imbalanced trade relationship with China poses profound national and economic security risks to the United States. The bipartisan Fair Trade with China Enforcement Act would help correct our trade imbalances with China and give American workers a level playing field to compete and succeed. This legislation would further strengthen the American position by safeguarding our assets from Chinese influence and possession, and blunting China’s tools of economic aggression,” said Congressman Ryan. “While the United States is operating in a 24-hour news cycle, China has a long term plan reaching 50 to 100 years. We need to get ahead of the game and strengthen our economy, and this legislation will put us on that path forward.” “Beijing’s Made in China 2025 initiative has made it clear that the Chinese government’s objective is to drive American companies out of business and move their technology and jobs to China at any cost, including the use of illegal trade practices. This legislation takes the important step of barring the sale of national security sensitive U.S. intellectual property and technology to China, as well as ensuring that China is paying its fair share in taxes,” said Rep. Conaway. “This bill also keeps the focus on the national security threats posed by Huawei and ZTE , as China frequently uses commercial technology as a vessel to spy on the U.S. government. Allowing them access to our networks would be an enormous security risk and a massive mistake.” This bill is the companion legislation to S. 2, introduced by Senators Rubio and Warner.
01.22.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) issued the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s 5-4 decision to allow President Trump’s transgender ban to go into effect: “Make no mistake, today’s SCOTUS decision makes us less safe and less military ready. Transgender service members have already been serving our country bravely and openly for over two years. And now this decision throws their futures into limbo. President Trump’s transgender ban was and always will be discriminatory and disgraceful, without any real evidence to why transgender people shouldn’t be in our military. He likes to talk about respecting the troops, but this is far from it. As a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, I will make sure we never turn our backs on those who put their lives on the line for our country and our freedoms. This fight isn’t over,” said Congressman Ryan.
01.19.2019	Youngstown, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) issued the following state regarding President Trump’s DACA-border funding speech: “Let me be clear: this shutdown should have never happened. In the 11th hour after the Senate unanimously passed a bill in December to fund the government, the President changed his mind because several right-wing television and radio hosts got under his skin. Our priority should be to reopen the government, and the House has been committed to doing that since day one of the new Congress,” said Congressman Ryan. “Now the President wants Americans to pay $5.7 billion for a permanent wall in exchange for temporary protections for Dreamers — protections which HE removed when elected. That is laughable. The Democratic House has passed eight bills to reopen the government. The Republican Senate can pass any one of those bills today. And only after the government is back up and running can we have a real conversation.”
01.17.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) today announced UAW Local 1112 President Dave Green will be his guest for the State of the Union – when a date is finalized. Green has served as president since May 2018. UAW Local 1112 represents General Motors (GM) workers at the Lordstown plant – which was one of five North American plants GM announced they were closing. Congressman Ryan supports delaying the State of the Union until the government is reopened. “I’m honored to bring Dave Green as my guest to the State of the Union this year. Since GM’s announcement to close the Lordstown plant, he’s been working around-the-clock to support GM workers and advocate for a new product at the facility. Dave will be representing the hundreds of laid off GM Lordstown workers who deserve to be seen and heard. I thank him for his leadership, and I can’t imagine a better partner in this fight to save GM Lordstown,” said Congressman Ryan. “That being said, I fully support the delay of the State of the Union until our government is reopened. On the 27th day of the government shutdown, 800,000 Americans are still furloughed or working without pay – with no idea when their next paycheck will come. Only after we get America back to work should we be talking about presidential addresses.” “I’m proud to represent the hundreds of dedicated workers at GM Lordstown who have been affected by the announcement to place this plant on unallocated status. I look forward to attending the State of the Union and representing the values of our hard-working men and women. Our voices deserve to be heard,” said Dave Green, UAW Local 1112.
01.17.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) announced a kick-off meeting for the Mahoning River Basin Water Management Update. Hosted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the meeting will explore the current and future operations of Mosquito Creek Lake, Michael J. Kirwan Reservoir, and Berlin Reservoir. In October of last year, Congressmen Ryan and Bill Johnson (R-OH) sent a letter to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers asking for funding to update the water control plans for three reservoirs. Updating these plans may yield favorable socio-economic impacts for the region. “I applaud the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for taking this important first step towards updating the plans for the Mahoning River Basin. These three reservoirs play a crucial part to Northeast Ohio and contribute to the economic, social, and safety needs of our community. I’ll continue to work with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to ensure basin management is properly updated and continues to meet the demands of the Mahoning Valley,” said Congressman Ryan. The kick-off meeting will take place on Tuesday, January 29 at the Stambaugh Auditorium. A question and answer session will follow a presentation from the Army Corps of Engineers.
01.16.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) was selected by his Democratic colleagues to serve as Chairman of a House Appropriations Committee subcommittee. Ryan will lead the Legislative Branch Subcommittee, which controls funding of the Legislative Branch of the United States government–including spending on the U.S. House of Representatives, Congressional Budget Office, Library of Congress, Government Accountability Office, and U.S. Capitol Police. Ryan will oversee a budget of $3.81 billion. “I’m honored to have the trust and faith of my Democratic colleagues to be selected as Chairman of the powerful House Appropriations Committee’s Legislative Branch Subcommittee. Over the past three weeks, we’ve all seen how critical it is for departments and agencies of the federal government to remain funded. As Chairman of this important subcommittee, it’s my goal and responsibility to ensure the U.S. House of Representatives and the entire Legislative Branch have the resources we need to best serve the American people,” said Congressman Ryan. “I look forward to working with my Democratic and Republican colleagues to enact policies and projects that create American jobs and grow our economy.” Ryan will continue to serve on the House Appropriations Committee’s Defense Subcommittee and remains its third most senior Democrat. The Defense Subcommittee controls $674 billion in spending and funds the U.S. Department of Defense, including the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, Central Intelligence Agency, and other intelligence agencies. Ryan will also continue to serve on the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Subcommittee (MIL-CON VA), which controls $98 billion in spending and funds military construction projects, base realignment and closure, and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Ryan’s Subcommittee Jurisdictions:Legislative Branch SubcommitteeDefense SubcommitteeMilitary Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Subcommittee Ryan’s selection as Chairman and his subcommittee assignments must be ratified by the House Steering and Policy Committee as well as the House Democratic Caucus.
01.14.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) formally began the process to bring his bipartisan Steve King censure resolution (H. Res. 40) to a vote. According to the Rules of the House, Ryan’s resolution must wait two days before a vote occurs due to such resolutions having a two-day maturation period when offered by any Members except the Majority Leader or Minority Leader. “We should be embracing diversity, not disparaging it. Rep. Steve King’s repugnant comments perpetuate division in this country that we need to condemn, especially from a sitting U.S. Congressman. This bipartisan-supported censure shows there is no room in Congress for support of the toxic ideology of white supremacy,” said Congressman Ryan. Representatives Dave Loebasack (D-IA) and Dave Joyce (R-OH) are original cosponsors to the resolution. Earlier today, Congressman Ryan introduced the censure resolution.
01.14.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) introduced a resolution today condemning and censuring Rep. Steve King (IA-5) for his comments about white supremacy in a New York Times interview last week. Congressman Ryan announced his intention to censure Rep. King last Thursday after the New York Times interview. "The dangerous ideology of white supremacy has no place in America—let alone Congress. It doesn’t matter if you’re a Democrat or Republican, we all have a responsibility to call out Rep. King’s hateful and racist comments. And this isn’t the first time he has made headlines for his inappropriate language. It’s far past time that Congress holds him accountable. We need to send a strong message to our colleagues and the American people that this type of behavior will not be tolerated,” said Congressman Ryan. If passed, Rep. Steve King would need to present himself in the well of the House of Representatives for the pronouncement of the censure and there would be a public reading of this resolution by the Speaker. Read the text of the resolution here.
01.08.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s immigration address this evening: “It was clear tonight that President Trump is only concerned with stoking fear in the American people. Devoid of any facts, the President continues to tout the lie that a wall is the only way to secure our border—it’s not. In an era of advanced surveillance technologies and capabilities, a wall is laughably outdated. It’s like saying we want Model T cars, glider planes, or rotary phones back. President Trump’s focus should be on reopening the government as hundreds of thousands of federal workers are facing the grim reality that they won’t be receiving a paycheck this week,” said Congressman Ryan.
01.08.2019	Youngstown, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) visited Federal Correctional Institution (FCI) Elkton amid the government shutdown. FCI Elkton is operated by the Federal Bureau of Prisons, a division of the United States Department of Justice. Approximately 300 FCI Elkton employees are affected by the shutdown. “Right here in the Mahoning Valley, we’re seeing the impact of President Trump’s callousness and selfishness as he continues to drag his government shutdown into its eighteenth day. The men and women of FCI Elkton won’t get their paychecks this Friday and don’t know when the next one will come because of political games played by Republicans in Washington. And yet they still have to report to work—it’s not right. Of course we will fight to ensure these hardworking employees receive the back pay they have earned, but right now they are forced to make impossible decisions to pay the bills, put food on the table, and cover basic necessities. It’s time for this President and the Republican Party to end this nonsense and reopen the government. This has gone on for far too long,” said Congressman Ryan. On Thursday, January 3rd, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation with bipartisan support to reopen the federal government. The first package of spending bills would fund all eight affected departments through the 2019 fiscal year, which ends September 30th. The second package would fund the Department of Homeland Security through February 8th.
01.03.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) issued the following statement in response to the passage of government funding legislation in the House of Representatives, the first step to re-opening the federal government: “The government shutdown is a crisis manufactured by President Trump and congressional Republicans. Their political game has put the lives of over 800,000 dedicated public servants into uncertainty, many who live paycheck to paycheck. This evening, House Democrats took the first step to ending the Trump shutdown and passed government funding legislation. Federal workers are not a bargaining chip. Instead of listening to the American people, President Trump is taking his marching orders from right-wing television and radio hosts. This is a stark reminder of the Republicans Party’s inability to lead our country forward. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to pass this legislation. We need to end this government shutdown now,” said Congressman Ryan.
01.03.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) was sworn in today to the 116th Congress. This is his 9th term as a member of the United States House of Representatives. Congressman Ryan voted for Nancy Pelosi for Speaker of the House. “It’s an honor and privilege to continue serving Ohio’s 13th District. Since my first day in our nation’s capital, I have been committed to fighting for the people in Northeast Ohio, and I will continue to do that every day,” said Congressman Ryan. “We must rise above partisan politics and work together to solve our nation’s problems, while at the same time preforming Congress’ Constitutional duty to act as a check on the Executive Branch. As we begin a new term, we must redouble our efforts to ensure that no American is left behind. I look forward to the next two years as we move our nation forward and help families all across Ohio and the United States.”
12.20.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) released the following statement on the passage of the FIRST STEP Act. Congressman Ryan voted in favor of the bill, which will make some needed sentencing and prison reforms to the federal prison system. The legislation creates a system of incentives to encourage prisoners to participate in recidivism reduction programs, bans the shackling of pregnant women, requires prisoners to be placed in facilities within 500 miles of home, and gives judges some discretion to issue sentences below the mandatory minimum for low-level, non-violent drug offenders. “As the name suggests, this legislation is just the first step in what absolutely must be a broad, deliberate, and comprehensive approach to reforming how criminal justice is handled in the United States. For too long our justice system has disproportionately targeted people of color and trapped low-income Americans into a cycle of debt and incarceration. Unrigging this system will take time, but we must fight every day to ensure it takes as little time as possible. Fair and impartial justice is a moral imperative and the great unfinished work of achieving full civil rights for every citizen. I was proud to vote in favor of this legislation today to advance the cause of justice,” said Congressman Ryan.
12.17.2018	Washington, DC – Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Derek Kilmer (D-WA) today made a friendly wager on the 2019 Rose Bowl Game: The Ohio State University Buckeyes vs The University of Washington Huskies. If the Huskies win, Ryan agreed to give Kilmer Buckeyes from Gorant Chocolatier and gourmet popcorn from Metropolis Popcorn; and, if The Ohio State University wins the game, Kilmer agreed to give Ryan candy apples from Amy’s Decadent Chocolate, Almond Roca, and smoked salmon. “I have no doubt that we will see The Ohio State Buckeyes claim victory over the Washington Huskies in the 2019 Rose Bowl. The Big Ten Champion Buckeyes have been firing on all cylinders and is being led by one of Ohio State’s most talented quarterbacks, Dwayne Haskins – a Heisman finalist who has led the country in both passing yards and touchdown passes. We will be starting the New Year with a ‘W’ and some Washington candy apples, Almond Roca, and smoked salmon to top it all off,” said Congressman Ryan. “The forecast in Ohio’s 13th Congressional District is calling for Purple Reign,” Congressman Kilmer said. “Myles Gaskin and Jake Browning are an unstoppable combo. And, Ohio State’s offenses no match for the nation’s leading tackler Ben Burr-Kirven and the stout Husky defense. I’m looking forward to eating some buckeyes after the Huskies beat Ohio State. Go Dawgs. ” This matchup will be the first time in the College Football Playoff era that the Rose Bowl has its traditional matchup, the Pac-12 champion against the Big Ten champion.
12.12.2018	Washington, DC — Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) today announced his support for an agreement with Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi ensuring the rise of a new generation of Democratic leaders. The deal would see Leader Pelosi agree to transition out of her leadership role by the end of the next Congress or--if she can obtain two-thirds support of the Democratic Caucus--at the end of the 117th Congress. Leader Pelosi also agreed to demands by Ryan and other Democrats who were witholding their vote for her that she support a change to Democratic Caucus rules to implement term-limits for the top three leaders of the Caucus. If the vote passes, the top three current Democratic leaders, all of whom have already served two terms in their current positions, would only be allowed to serve one more term in the upcoming 116th Congress unless they can secure two thirds of the caucus's support for an extra term in the 117th Congress. Leader Pelosi personally pledged to adhere to the framework for these term limits regardless of the outcome of the Caucus vote. As a result of this deal, Congressman Ryan plans to vote in support Leader Pelosi’s bid for Speaker on the House Floor January 3rd. “When I joined this effort four weeks ago I said our goal was to think seriously about transitioning our caucus leadership to a new generation of Democrats in the House. The agreement announced today is a historic step in that direction. I have also been clear from the start that this effort was never about one person—but our entire Democratic leadership team which has been in power for 16 years. As such, I intend to fight alongside my colleagues to make sure the entire leadership team and future leadership teams are bound by this deal. "Leader Pelosi has been an honest partner throughout these negotiations, and I applaud her commitment to creating a system that will ensure the speedy rise of new leadership reflecting the diversity and energy of our caucus. "I am very proud to have joined with my colleagues to make lasting positive change to our party—change that will ensure Democrats are in the best possible position to fight, and win, for hard working families," said Congressman Ryan.
12.12.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today released this statement after voting yes on the Farm Bill conference report (H.R. 2, the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018). “The Farm Bill is one of the most important pieces of legislation in Congress. Agriculture is Ohio’s largest industry. Now more than ever, Congress must seize every opportunity to fix the broken systems that work against children and families, pollute the environment, risk public health, and perpetuate systemic poverty and hunger. While far from perfect, this bipartisan legislation contains many provisions that made it worthy of passage. “The 2018 Farm Bill protects funding for and access to SNAP, our nation’s largest anti-hunger program, which feeds 1.5 million Ohioans. It preserves critical conservation programs that protect and improve water quality, soil health, and the Great Lakes. Importantly, the bill provides permanent funding for the “tiny but mighty” Farm Bill programs that are often overlooked. These programs fund local farmers markets and food programs, research the challenges facing organic farmers, support veteran and minority farmers, and train the next generation of Americans to work in agriculture. Perfect legislation does not exist, and I am disappointed the bill does not reform farm subsidies and adequately address climate change. Still, Congress has a responsibility to act, and the Farm Bill passed today will provide much-needed stability and certainty to Ohio farmers, families, and communities” said Congressman Ryan. Congressman Ryan has been a longtime supporter of “tiny but mighty” programs that are now permanently funded in the Farm Bill.
12.11.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) met with a delegation of Youngstown elected officials and community leaders to congratulate them on receiving a $10.8 million BUILD grant (formally known as TIGER Grant). The delegation was in town for meetings with officials at the Department of Transportation regarding their award, and included Youngstown Mayor Tito Brown, 1st Ward City Councilman Julius Oliver, 3rd Ward City Councilman Nate Pinkard, Youngstown Law Director Jeff Limbian, Director of the Eastgate Regional Council of Governments Jim Kinnick, Youngstown/Warren Chamber of Commerce President James Dignan, Youngstown State University Associate Vice President of External Affairs Michael Hripko, Western Reverse Transit Authority’s Charlie Nelson, WRTA Executive Director Dean Harris, 7th Ward City Councilwoman Basia Adamczak. These funds will support a critical infrastructure project that will provide autonomous transit shuttles, transit waiting environments, pedestrian and bicycle facilities, green infrastructure such as permeable surfaces and LED lighting, streetscaping, and wayfinding to connect anchor institutions such as Youngstown State University, Mercy Health, Youngstown Business Incubator, and Eastern Gateway Community College. “This federal investment will be transformative for the City of Youngstown and our entire region. This announcement was the culmination years of hard work and a highly collaborative, public-private partnership. I want to thank Director Jim Kinnick and the staff at Eastgate Regional Council of Governments, Mayor Brown and the teams at YSU, Mercy Health, WRTA and The Chamber of Commerce for their steadfast belief in this project. Everyone here had a part to play, and remains committed to ushering in a new era of growth in Youngstown. That dedication is what got this grant over the finish line. I’m thrilled to have been in the trenches with them fighting for this critical project,” said Congressman Ryan. TR Youngstown Delegation BUILD Grant
12.07.2018	Youngstown, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) today formally invited President Donald Trump to visit Lordstown and the other communities impacted by General Motors’ decision to idle several North America plants. The letter was signed by Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13), Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Rep. Joyce Beatty (OH-03) and Rep.-Elect Andy Levin (MI-09). “Respectfully, we invite you to join us to visit the Lordstown Assembly, Warren Transmission, Brownstown Battery, Baltimore Operations and Detroit-Hamtramck plants, to meet the workers who will soon receive pink slips. This idling will impact over 14,000 workers, including the layoff of 3,300 production workers in the United States and 2,500 in Canada, and another 8,000 salaried employees,” the Members wrote. “We urge your Administration’s intervention in every manner possible to seek both short and long term remedies for these workers, the auto-part supplies that will also be impacted, and the communities sure to be severely impacted by these job losses,” the Members continued. “Our communities need deliverance on your promises to invest in and restore America’s manufacturing might and to put an end to the outsourcing of American jobs. We will work with you and your Administration to reinvest and modernize American auto manufacturing. Thank you for review of this urgent request,” the Members concluded. Read the full letter here. The letter comes after the Members held a press conference on November 29 and issued a call for immediate action from President Trump. Watch that press conference here.
12.07.2018	Akron, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan is proud to announce the winning team for the 2018 Congressional App Challenge: Ben Engdahl, Ean Eisenzimmer, Kaleb Wells, and Noah Klein from the National Inventors Hall of Fame High School. Their app entitled “Anonymous Security Center” allows students to anonymously report problems to teachers and administrators that could potentially jeopardize school safety. To view the students’ submission video, click here. “Every year, I’m always amazed by the creativity and ingenuity of our students. This year was no different. I want to congratulate Ben Engdahl, Ean Eisenzimmer, Kaleb Wells, and Noah Klein from NIHF STEM High School in Akron for their work on this impressive app and efforts in enhancing school safety,” said Congressman Ryan. “I also want to commend the goals of the Congressional App Challenge, which is to ensure continued growth and innovation in the science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) fields and to encourage students to excel in those occupations.” “I really enjoy inventing things, coding gives me a chance to be creative,” said Ben Engdahl. “We all played to our strengths during the challenge in order to work towards making a quality product,” said Ean Eisenzimmer. “I feel like our team was able to use collaboration skills to their fullest while participating in the challenge,” said Kaleb Wells. “I really enjoyed working with my friends, on a project that can actually help people,” said Noah Klein. About The Congressional App Challenge: The Congressional App Challenge was created because Congress recognized that STEM and computer-based skills are essential for economic growth and innovation, and that the U.S. has been falling behind on these fronts. By some estimates, the U.S. may be short by as many as a million programmers by 2020. These are high-paying, high-demand jobs. To maintain American competitiveness, it’s crucial that the U.S. invests in our youth now and helps them acquire the skills necessary to pursue these careers in the future. This nationwide competition highlights the creativity and talent of the students in each Congressional District, with each district selecting a winner(s) and their app to be prominently featured at the U.S. Capitol. Congressman Ryan was one of two Congressional Co-Chairs for this year’s challenge. Recognizing the racial, gendered, and other disparities in the tech sector, the CAC also focuses on inclusivity and making the Challenge widely accessible to students from all backgrounds. For more information about the Congressional App Challenge, please visit www.CongressionalAppChallenge.us.
12.06.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) today announced a $10,853,192 million BUILD Grant for Youngstown, Ohio. These funds are to support a critical infrastructure project that will provide autonomous transit shuttles, transit waiting environments, pedestrian and bicycle facilities, green infrastructure such as permeable surfaces and LED lighting, streetscaping, and wayfinding to connect anchor institutions such as Youngstown State University, Mercy Health, Youngstown Business Incubator, and Eastern Gateway Community College. These funds are a part of the Better Utilizing Investment to Leverage Development (BUILD) Grants Program, formerly known as the Transportation Investing Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) program. “This $10.8 million federal investment will prove to be truly transformative for the City of Youngstown and the entire region. According to projections made by Youngstown State University, the project will support more than $250 million in economic development over the next decade by connecting all of the major downtown economic players with a central transportation hub. This announcement was the culmination of the most robust public-private partnership in the Youngstown area in decades. I want to thank Mayor Brown and the teams at YSU, Mercy Health, The Chamber of Commerce, and the Eastgate Regional Council of Governments for their steadfast belief in this project. That dedication is what got this over the finish line. I’m thrilled to have been in the trenches with them fighting for this critical funding,” said Congressman Ryan. “Youngstown and the Mahoning Valley are an innovative hub of higher education, healthcare, entertainment and advanced manufacturing. This project will invest in the transportation infrastructure needed to reinvigorate downtown Youngstown and beyond,” said Senator Brown. “I’m proud to support the local and regional partners who have brought this transformative project together. I look forward to seeing the SMART2 Corridor serve the region’s residents, visitors, and businesses.” “This funding from the BUILD Grant will be a true impact on Youngstown and the Mahoning Valley. This is an economic catalyst for our community and for future investment. This is an example of what happens when we work together and put our differences aside and build true partnership for a common goal,” said Jamael Tito Brown, Mayor of Youngstown. “For the past three years a dedicated team of economic development and community planning professionals from Youngstown’s anchor institutions have worked tirelessly for this award. Youngstown State University is honored to have worked alongside our partners from Eastgate Regional Council of Governments, Mercy Health, Youngstown Business Incubator, Western Reserve Transit Authority, and the Diocese of Youngstown to prepare a winning proposal that will transform Youngstown’s transportation infrastructure for the 21sr century,” said Jim Tressel, President of Youngstown State University. “Eastgate is excited to be the recipient of the $10.85 million USDOT BUILD Grant for the SMART2 Network. This grant will allow us to capitalize on the synergy in our urban core and expand the connectivity to the entire Mahoning Valley. This would not be possible without the hard work and resiliency of our partners, Youngstown State University, City of Youngstown, Western Reserve Transit Authority and Mercy Health and the strong support from our legislators, Senator Rob Portman, Senator Sherrod Brown, Congressman Tim Ryan, and Congressman Bill Johnson,” said Jim Kinnick, Director of the Eastgate Regional Council of Governments. September 28, 2018: Congressman Tim Ryan hosted the Youngstown Delegation before they met with the Department of Transportation to discuss the BUILD Grant. In early July of this year, Congressman Ryan wrote to the Secretary of Transportation, Elaine Chao, urging the Department of Transportation to grant federal funds to support the development of this project. Congressman Ryan played a key role in coordinating meetings with the Department of Transportation and the City of Youngstown BUILD Grant team.
12.06.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) today urged Republican Senate Leadership to stop playing politics and pass the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act (H.R. 299). The bill would provide benefits to 90,000 Blue Water Navy veterans who were exposed to dioxin -- also known as Agent Orange -- during the Vietnam War. As the 115th Congress draws to a close, the legislation is stuck in the Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs, and is at risk of expiring with the end of the Congress which would put the effort back to square one. “Our veterans have put their lives on the line in defense for our freedoms and security. As a nation, we can honor their service and sacrifice by holding up our end of the bargain and providing them the care they have earned. The Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act is a chance to show our thanks,” said Congressman Ryan. “I’m extremely disappointed that the Senate is poised to abandon their duty to these men and women by failing to pass this important legislation by the end of the 115th Congress. All too often members of this Congress are willing to pay lip service to the sacrifices our military and military veterans make, then fall into the trap of playing politics when there’s a chance to actually do something to help them. I’ve had enough of that. Pass this bill.” In addition to being a cosponsor of the original House Bill, Congressman Ryan wrote a letter to VA Under Secretary of Benefits Paul Lawrence in August of this year urging department to extend benefits to Navy veterans exposed to dioxin. Congressman Ryan also joined a letter with his colleagues in October calling on Senator Johnny Isakson, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs, to pass the bill out of committee so the full Senate could vote on it. H.R. 299 passed the House on June 25 of this year by a unanimous vote of 382-0.
12.04.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) will meet with GM CEO Mary Barra tomorrow in Washington, DC to talk about GM Lordstown. Last week, GM announced it would close five of its facilities, including one in Lordstown Ohio, affecting over 14,700 jobs. “I look forward to having a productive conversation with GM CEO Mary Barra tomorrow. I’ve heard first-hand from many people in Northeast Ohio how detrimental GM’s announcement has been to them. It’s not just impacting jobs, but the entire community. It’s my hope that Mary Barra and I can find a path forward, bring a new product to the Lordstown plant, and keep these jobs in the Mahoning Valley,” said Congressman Ryan. April 2, 2018: The Final Determination by President Trump’s EPA on the Appropriateness of the Model Years 2022-2025 Light-Duty Vehicle Greenhouse Gas Emissions Standards under the Midterm Evaluation – incentivizing the sale of larger cars and SUVs. This was not a surprise as Secretary Pruitt has questioned climate scientists, eliminating the Clean Power Plan, and now working to roll back fuel economy standards that are reducing carbon pollution. You can read more here. April 13, 2018: General Motors announced that it was shutting down its second shift. Read Ryan’s statement here. GM’s announcement that it would lay off the second shift at the Lordstown plant came just over a year after GM laid off the third shift, or 1,200 workers, at the same facility. April 24, 2018: Ryan called on GM to consider ShareWork Ohio Program, a unique layoff aversion program offered by the Ohio Department of Jobs and Family Services (ODJFS) for employees impacted by the recently announced layoff of the second shift at GM Lordstown. April 27, 2018: Ryan spoke directly with GM CEO Mary Barra to discuss the loss of GM Lordstown’s 2nd shift, potential ways to mitigate the impact on our community, and the long-term future of GM Lordstown. May 11, 2018: Ryan sent a letter to President Trump requesting that he reverse his decision to scrap fuel efficiency standards that weaken the market for compact cars like the Chevy Cruze. In a letter sent to GM Chairman and CEO Mary Barra, Congressman Ryan highlighted ShareWork Ohio’s outside-the-box approach to retaining valued employees until demand can return to the industry market. September 12, 2018: Ryan and Brown announced $1.7 million in federal relief for GM Lordstown workers impacted by GM’s layoffs. The funds provided employment and training services to approximately 337 of the 1,686 workers affected by layoffs from the General Motors plant in Lordstown, as well as from three additional auto industry suppliers in northeastern Ohio. August 2, 2018: Ryan and Brown wrote to DOL Secretary Acosta urging the department provide relief for the workers and families in Northeast Ohio. Ryan and Brown encouraged the State of Ohio to apply for the grant. November 19, 2018: Ryan and Mahoning Valley Leaders launched the “Drive It Home” campaign aimed at bolstering support for GM Lordstown and the Mahoning Valley Workforce. November 26, 2018: GM announced it was shutting down the Lordstown plant. Read Ryan’s statement here. November 26. 2018: Ryan called for congressional hearings on GM tax cuts. November 28, 2018: Ryan spoke to Vice President Mike Pence about GM Lordstown. November 29, 2018: Ryan spoke with GM CEO Mary Barra over the phone about the plant’s closure. December 4, 2018: Ryan urged President Trump to save GM Lordstown and preserve electric car subsidies.
12.04.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) today urged President Trump to save General Motors’ Lordstown Assembly plant and reconsider his threat to end federal subsidies for electric cars. GM recently announced it is closing five facilities across North America, laying off over 14,000 employees, including approximately 1,600 from Lordstown, Ohio. In a letter written to the President, Congressman Ryan expressed his concern that eliminating the electric vehicle subsidy as a punitive action against GM could backfire and make it harder to place a new product at the Lordstown plant. “You recently suggested cutting federal subsidies for electric vehicles in an effort to punish GM, but that is not the solution and may, in fact, backfire--making it even harder to land a new vehicle at the Lordstown plant. The Mahoning Valley is depending on you to keep your promises to bring economic growth and development to Northeast Ohio. I am committed to working with you and my colleagues in Congress to craft and implement a cohesive national manufacturing policy, one that makes our economy actually work for American workers--especially the workers of my congressional district,” read the letter. Congressman Ryan has urged a comprehensive effort to find a workable solution to these GM layoffs, and has renewed calls for a national manufacturing policy. You can read the text of the full letter here, or below: December 3, 2018 President Donald J. Trump 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Trump, This past week my district received the devastating news that General Motors would close their plant in Lordstown, Ohio in March 2019. Over 1,600 employees will be laid off, indirectly affecting many thousands more jobs in the surrounding communities. But this number does not even begin to quantify the impact this will have on families and our community as a whole. GM has eliminated approximately 3,000 jobs at this plant over the past two years. This news comes weeks before the Christmas Holiday Season leaving many families feeling anxious about what the future holds. Mr. President, decisive action is needed. Our current economic system benefits the wealthy and leaves hardworking Americans behind. We have continued layoffs, stagnant wages, and a pension crisis. Our economy is changing and leaving the hardworking middle class behind. You recently suggested cutting federal subsidies for electric vehicles in an effort to punish GM, but that is not the solution and may, in fact, backfire--making it even harder to land a new vehicle at the Lordstown plant. The Mahoning Valley is depending on you to keep your promises to bring economic growth and development to Northeast Ohio. I am committed to working with you and my colleagues in Congress to craft and implement a cohesive national manufacturing policy, one that makes our economy actually work for American workers--especially the workers of my congressional district. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
11.30.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) released the following statement in response to the signing of NAFTA 2.0 by President Donald Trump, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, and outgoing Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto in Buenos Aires. “This week, the United States was once more painfully reminded of the consequences that accompany bad trade policies. Five GM facilities closed across North America, including GM Lordstown in my district. Hard-working Americans are being left behind while companies continue to profit by moving manufacturing jobs outside of the United States. Changing this reality requires fixing NAFTA. The American people need relief now. “Although I’m encouraged that the U.S., Canada, and Mexico have moved to find a solution, the newly signed deal does not go far enough to protect American workers. The current deal lacks substantive provisions to end outsourcing incentives and still needs strengthened enforcement mechanisms. The final text must include strong labor and environmental standards, raise wages for American workers, and remove outsourcing incentives. Without proper enforcement mechanisms, corporations will continue to game the system and create jobs outside of the country. As this deal makes its way to Congress, creating a level playing field for Americans will be my fundamental priority. It’s time we put American workers first,” said Congressman Ryan.
11.29.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) spoke with GM CEO and Chairwoman Mary Barra this morning over the phone. He discussed his disappointment with their decision to close GM Lordstown and lay off approximately 1,518 employees in March 2019. GM’s announcement included closing four other manufacturing facilities across North America – Michigan, Maryland, and Canada – laying off 14,700 people across the five facilities. Congressman Ryan discussed how GM could use the Mahoning Valley’s other resources to keep GM jobs in Northeast Ohio, emphasizing on getting a new product to GM Lordstown. “On my call with GM CEO Mary Barra, I expressed my frustration and disappointment with GM’s decision to close the Lordstown plant. Generations of Northeast Ohioans have worked at this facility, and their recent announcement is devastating to our community. I told Mary Barra that I am focused on bringing a new product to GM Lordstown, and I will work with her and the Trump Administration to get that done – this is my highest priority. I described to Mary Barra that the Mahoning Valley is rich in resources that can help GM stay in Lordstown, whether it’s the Youngstown Business Incubator or the Tech Belt Innovation Center, we are second to none when it comes to additive manufacturing and 3-D printing. It doesn’t matter how many calls, letters, or meetings it will take, I am committed to finding a solution with GM, this Administration, and Congress to keep our jobs in Lordstown and protect American workers,” said Congressman Ryan. After the phone call, Congressman Ryan was joined by his congressional colleagues, Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Congressman Sander Levin (MI-09), and Congressman-Elect Andy Levin (MI-09) in a press conference in Washington, DC. They talked about the impact of GM’s decision in their communities and urged President Trump to keep his promise and save American manufacturing jobs.
11.28.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) today announced an additional $1 million of Fiscal Year 2019 appropriations funding designated for water manual updates for three reservoirs in the Mahoning River Basin. This follows Congressman Ryan’s call for funds in October of this year. In a letter, Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Bill Johnson (R-OH) urged the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to provide funding to update the water control plans for the three reservoirs feeding the Mahoning River: Berlin Reservoir, Michael J Kirwan Reservoir, and Mosquito Creek Lake. The water control manual containing the water control plan was originally developed in the late 1970s. The letter laid out how--over the past several decades--conditions have changed in the watershed such that an update of these water control manuals could positively impact local businesses and recreational users who rely on the reservoirs. This funding was announced today along with a slate of additional FY19 money. “This dedicated funding, which will facilitate updated water control plans for the network of reservoirs that feed into the Mahoning River, is absolutely critical to our community’s economic well-being. Outdated control plans have led to premature lowering of water levels – specifically at Berlin Reservoir – that hinder economic opportunities for residents in the area. I am confident that this funding and the updated protocols they’ll allow is the sensible thing to do to balance the needs of residents, as well as the safety of the whole region. That’s why I fought for it in the first place, and why I am pleased with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for seeing the value in this effort,” said Congressman Ryan. You can read the full text of the original letter here.
11.28.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) made the following statement regarding his conversation with Vice President Mike Pence about GM Lordstown: “Earlier this morning, I had a face-to-face conversation with Vice President Mike Pence about GM Lordstown. I told him I want to work with this Administration to put a car back in Lordstown as soon as possible. I look forward to further discussions with the Administration and my colleagues in Congress about how to make this economy work for American workers,” said Congressman Ryan.
11.26.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) today called for Congressional hearings to look into how General Motors (GM) utilized millions of dollars in tax cuts. This comes in the wake of GM’s announcement that they are laying off 14,700 workers and closing 5 facilities across North America. GM’s plant in Lordstown, Ohio is among those impacted, which will result in the loss of 1,618 jobs once the closure begins in March of 2019. In a letter written to Representatives Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Richard Neal (D-MA) -- Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Committee – Ryan called on Congress to hold public hearings into how the corporate leadership of GM used their windfall from the massive tax reform bill passed last year. “It is squarely within the oversight responsibility of the House Ways and Means Committee to investigate the outcome of this corporate tax handout. I strongly urge the Committee to hold hearings where GM and other corporations who have laid off workers since the passage of the tax break are called to testify regarding tax breaks they received and how this money was spent. The American people deserve to know if the tax cuts they paid for are being used to inflate corporate profits at the expense of their economic security and the survival of American workers,” read the letter. You can read the full text of the letter below, and here: ### November 26, 2018 Dear Chairman Brady and Ranking Member Neal: The Honorable Kevin Brady Chairman House Committee on Ways and Means 1102 Longworth House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Richard Neal Ranking Member House Committee on Ways and Means 1102 Longworth House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 As you well know, Congress passed a sweeping overhaul of the U.S. tax code in December 2017. Although corporations were already making record profits, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act included a massive cut to the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent. Among the corporations to benefit from this cut was General Motors (GM). While President Trump and the Republican-led Congress promised the $1 trillion corporate tax cut would trickle-down to the average worker, we know instead that many corporations have used the tax cut to buy back their stock and increase CEO bonuses. Now today, GM announced plans to lay off 15 percent of salaried workers—nearly 14,000 jobs—and halt production at five North American plants by 2019. One of these five plants, GM Lordstown, is in my Congressional District. The indefinite shutdown of the Lordstown facility will leave roughly 1,618 employees without jobs, the latest blow to a community that has seen more than 3,000 jobs eliminated by GM over the last two years. The impact of the Lordstown closure on its workers, the local community, and the entire Northeast Ohio region is nothing short of devastating. It is squarely within the oversight responsibility of the House Ways and Means Committee to investigate the outcome of this corporate tax handout. I strongly urge the Committee to hold hearings where GM and other corporations who have laid off workers since the passage of the tax break are called to testify regarding tax breaks they received and how this money was spent. The American people deserve to know if the tax cuts they paid for are being used to inflate corporate profits at the expense of their economic security and the survival of American workers. Thank you for your consideration. I look forward to hearing from you soon. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
11.26.2018	Lordstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) made the following statement in response to the indefinite shutdown of GM Lordstown in March of 2019, laying off approximately 1,618 employees. This announcement comes after GM eliminated approximately 3,000 jobs at the plant over the last two years. “Today our generation is facing a new Black Monday in the Mahoning Valley. GM’s announcement is devastating for the men and women working at Lordstown and everyone here in the Mahoning Valley. For decades, workers have devoted their lives, working day and night, to produce some of the finest cars in the country for General Motors. We fought together to keep GM afloat and the American taxpayers bailed them out when they were on the verge of bankruptcy. Thousands of families have sacrificed to build GM into what it is today. And in return, GM has turned its back on us when we need them the most. “This is a bad combination of greedy corporations and policy makers with no understanding of economic development. I implore President Trump to keep his word when he came to the Mahoning Valley last year and promised jobs were ‘all coming back. They’re all coming back. Don’t move. Don’t sell your house.’ So far, President Trump has been asleep at the switch and owes this community an explanation. We tried to get his attention on this issue two years ago. He promised us that his massive corporate tax cut would lead to dramatic reinvestments in our communities. That clearly is not happening. The Valley has been yearning for the Trump Administration to come here, roll up their sleeves and help us fight for this recovery. What we’ve gotten instead are broken promises and petty tweets. Corporations like General Motors and the President himself are the only ones benefiting from this economy—an economy rigged against workers who are playing by the rules but still not getting ahead. “My office is standing by to assist all those who are impacted by this closure. Our community has always banded together in difficult times, and this will be no different,” said Congressman Ryan. April 2, 2018: The Final Determination by President Trump’s EPA on the Appropriateness of the Model Years 2022-2025 Light-Duty Vehicle Greenhouse Gas Emissions Standards under the Midterm Evaluation – incentivizing the sale of larger cars and SUVs. This was not a surprise as Secretary Pruitt has questioned climate scientists, eliminating the Clean Power Plan, and now working to roll back fuel economy standards that are reducing carbon pollution. You can read more here. April 13, 2018: General Motors announced that it was shutting down its second shift. Read Ryan’s statement here. GM’s announcement that it would lay off the second shift at the Lordstown plant came just over a year after GM laid off the third shift, or 1,200 workers, at the same facility. April 24, 2018: Ryan called on GM to consider ShareWork Ohio Program, a unique layoff aversion program offered by the Ohio Department of Jobs and Family Services (ODJFS) for employees impacted by the recently announced layoff of the second shift at GM Lordstown. April 27, 2018: Ryan spoke directly with GM CEO Mary Barra to discuss the loss of GM Lordstown’s 2nd shift, potential ways to mitigate the impact on our community, and the long-term future of GM Lordstown. May 11, 2018: Ryan sent a letter to President Trump requesting that he reverse his decision to scrap fuel efficiency standards that weaken the market for compact cars like the Chevy Cruze. In a letter sent to GM Chairman and CEO Mary Barra, Congressman Ryan highlighted ShareWork Ohio’s outside-the-box approach to retaining valued employees until demand can return to the industry market. September 12, 2018: Ryan and Brown announced $1.7 million in federal relief for GM Lordstown workers impacted by GM’s layoffs. The funds provided employment and training services to approximately 337 of the 1,686 workers affected by layoffs from the General Motors plant in Lordstown, as well as from three additional auto industry suppliers in northeastern Ohio. August 2, 2018: Ryan and Brown wrote to DOL Secretary Acosta urging the department provide relief for the workers and families in Northeast Ohio. Ryan and Brown encouraged the State of Ohio to apply for the grant. November 19, 2018: Ryan and Mahoning Valley Leaders launched the “Drive It Home” campaign aimed at bolstering support for GM Lordstown and the Mahoning Valley Workforce.
11.19.2018	Warren, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) and Mahoning Valley Leaders launched the “Drive It Home” campaign this morning aimed at bolstering support for GM Lordstown and the Mahoning Valley Workforce. Leaders who took part of the campaign include Senator Sherrod Brown, Lordstown Mayor Arno Hill, Congressman Bill Johnson, Secretary of State Jon Husted, Shop Chairman Danny Morgan, UAW Regional Director Rich Rankin, and Youngstown-Warren Regional Chamber of Commerce President and CEO James Dignan. “With one of the largest auto manufacturing facilities in the world, the GM Lordstown plant remains a vital component to the Valley’s economic wellness. It employs our mothers, fathers, brothers, sisters, friends and neighbors across Northeast Ohio. Our ‘Drive It Home’ campaign embodies the resilience and the hard-working spirit of the Mahoning Valley. We are coming together and calling on GM to commit to reinvest in the Lordstown plant and help secure the automotive future in Northeast Ohio. This area is a great place to do business, GM Lordstown has the capacity to expand and add shifts, and we have an incredibly skilled workforce that is ready to work. Fighting for the economic betterment of the people in this region remains my highest priority, and I am delighted to show my support for this spirited campaign.” said Congressman Ryan
11.09.2018	Youngstown, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) announced three Youngstown businesses will receive a Honoring Investments in Recruiting and Employing American Military Veterans (HIRE Vets) Medallion Program Demonstration award. The Youngstown businesses that will receive this award are US Military Maintenance Northeast Ohio, Kennedy Trucking, and United Returning Citizens Inc. The award comes from the U.S. Department of Labor. “I’m incredibly proud of US Military Maintenance Northeast Ohio, Kennedy Trucking, and United Returning Citizens for their work in recruiting, employing, and retaining our nation’s veterans. It’s a testament to Northeast Ohio’s dedication to honoring and supporting those who have sacrificed so much for our country,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Our veterans ask for little, but it’s through efforts like these that we are able to show our gratitude for their service and sacrifice. I congratulate our Youngstown businesses in receiving this prestigious award.” According to the U.S. Department of Labor, the Honoring Investments in Recruiting and Employing American Military Veterans Act of 2017 (HIRE Vets Act or the Act) requires the Secretary of Labor to establish a program, by rule, that recognizes employer efforts to recruit, employ, and retain veterans. Employer-applicants meeting criteria established in the rule will receive a “HIRE Vets Medallion Award.” As described in the Act, there are different awards for large employers (500-plus employees), medium employers (51-499 employees), and small employers (50 or fewer employees).
10.26.2018	Washington, DC - Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) released the following statement in response to the suspected mail bomber arrest in Florida: “I am relieved that an arrest has been made in the case of the recent attempted bombings. I want to commend the FBI, Secret Service, and all law enforcement involved for their swift and diligent work. Elected officials at every level of government have a duty to understand the power of their words. When our language and our rhetoric is intended to divide, it will. When it is intended to stoke fear and possibly even violence, it will. Violence aimed at stifling political opposition or a free press must always be called out, and must never become an acceptable tool. That’s not America. We must always strive to find common ground and elevate our public discourse.”
10.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) introduced the Reserve Component Employer Incentive, Compensation, and Relief Act of 2018 in the U.S. House of Representatives. By providing employers with a tax credit aimed to offset costs accrued and hardships undertaken when employees that are members of the Reserve Component (comprised of both the National Guard and Reserves) are activated, this legislation incentivizes employers to hire and retain Guard members and reservists. Reps. Tim Walz (D-MN) and Steven Palazzo (R-MS) joined Congressman Ryan in introducing this piece of legislation. “Employers who hire National Guard or Reserve servicemembers do so with the knowledge that these employees may need to miss work for training and may need to deploy to defend our country,” said Rep. Ryan (D-OH). “This legislation will provide these patriotic employers with an appropriate level of compensation for hiring servicemembers who sacrifice so much for our nation.” “Guard members and reservists are hard workers with highly sought-after skills and experience. It’s no surprise that America’s employers want to hire them,” said Rep. Walz (D-MN). “This legislation empowers employers to do just that while ensuring the topnotch workforce of the Reserve Component doesn’t have to choose between serving our nation in uniform and maintaining a job to support their families.” “The men and women who serve this nation in uniform are some of the brightest and hardest working Americans we have, but because of their unique service requirements, their employers often have to make sacrifices to keep them during their guard service,” said Rep. Palazzo (R-MS). “Incentivizing these civilian employers to continue employing our National Guard Soldiers is a no brainer, and a win-win for all.” Having transitioned from a “Strategic Reserve” to an “Operational Reserve,” the Reserve Component is fully integrated in ongoing national security missions around the globe. This transition has led to increased training requirements which go beyond the statutorily required 39 days of annual training to requirements totaling 80 or more days per year. Moreover, tax credits in the past have been targeted at too small a population and were too small monetarily to truly incentivize companies and small business to hire members of the National Guard and Reserves. Further, a study conducted by Members of the Minnesota National Guard enrolled in the Hubert H. Humphrey Fellowship Program at the University of Minnesota found the following: Whether big or small, employers are very patriotic and willing to shoulder an inordinate burden, but all agreed that there should be some type of benefit/compensation provided. 30 days of continual absence is the threshold that causes issues for employers of all sizes. Employers prefer a continuous absence versus many small absences (60 days vs. multiple 2-4-week periods). Absences for training causes more friction than absence for a deployment. Small businesses that employ Reserve Component service members would benefit the most from any employer compensation model. Rarely do employers hire temporary employees to cover the reservist’s absence from the workplace. Work often must be picked up by fellow employees. “The impact of the Minnesota National Guard's increased operations tempo and readiness requirements in support of our nation have not only been felt by our soldiers, airmen, and their families, but by their employers as well,” said Brig. Gen. Sandra Best, Deputy Adjutant General, Minnesota National Guard. “We are supportive of civilian employment initiatives that assist our dedicated citizen soldiers and airmen.” For the first time, the Reserve Component Employer Incentive, Compensation, and Relief Act provides long overdue continuous benefits for all employers of actively serving members of the Reserve Component and provides a scalable benefit for those employers that experience extended absences of employees for military service. The Reserve Component Employer Incentive, Compensation, and Relief Act is endorsed by the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States (EANGUS) and the National Guard Association of the United States (NGAUS). “As part of the triad of support of our National Guard members who are called to military duty as Soldiers and Airmen, our employers play a vital role in the security of this nation,” said Frank Yoakum, Executive Director, EANGUS. “This bill recognizes that role by ensuring our citizen Soldiers and Airmen retain their jobs as they answer the call to defend America.” “On behalf of the 45,000 members of the National Guard Association of the United States (NGAUS) and the nearly 500,000 soldiers and airmen of the National Guard, please accept our sincere thanks for your leadership in introducing the Reserve Component Employer Incentive, Compensation and Relief Act,” said J. Roy Robinson, Brigadier General (Ret.), President, NGAUS. “After nearly twenty years of the National Guard providing an integral role in our nation’s war on terror, we often neglect to remember the sacrifices also made by our civilian employers. This legislation is an important first step in recognizing the partnership between the nation and employers.” Specifically, the Reserve Component Employer Incentive, Compensation, and Relief Act of 2018 accomplishes the following: Amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide a reservist employment credit. An employer can elect to have the tax credit not apply. The credit amount is equal to the sum of the credit for each reservist employed by an eligible employer during the taxable year. The reservist credit amount is equal to $1,000 plus an additional amount dependent on the days of service in uniform during such year. - 30 to 89 days of service equates to $3,000 - 90 to 179 days of service equates to $5,000 - 180 plus days of service equates to $10,000 A key difference between the Reserve Component Employer Incentive, Compensation, and Relief Act and similar past efforts is that this tax credit applies to all employers that hire and employ actively serving members of the Reserve Component. To learn more about the Reserve Component Employer Incentive, Compensation, and Relief Act of 2018, click here for a fact sheet and here for the full bill text.
10.16.2018	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan announces the creation of the $2.25 million Comeback Capital Fund, which was spurred by the success of the Comeback Cities Tour, led by Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Ro Khanna (D-CA) and helped by Bloomberg Beta. Comeback Capital, led by Scott Shane, was created to bridge the divide between Silicon Valley investors and Midwestern startups -- originally suggested by Cyan Banister who is a partner at Founders Fund. Investors include Patrick McKenna of High Ridge VP, Bloomberg Beta, and the accelerator, Gener8tor, along with over 30 other individuals and funds. The fund pools money from active Midwestern and coastal investors, and has partners in Northeast Ohio, Southeast Michigan, Pittsburgh and Chicago. The limited partners (LPs) in the fund are encouraged to invest alongside it, bringing needed capital to Midwestern startups from inside and outside the region. “I am proud to have been able to use my position to connect investors from the coasts with the cutting-edge innovation happening here in the Midwest. Last spring, a group of venture capitalists and I embarked on a tour of the Midwest to explore the investment opportunities that are all too often overlooked – starting the trip right here in Youngstown. Over the course of the trip, ideas were exchanged, relationships grew and partnerships were forged that will pay dividends for years – one of those dividends is the Comeback Capital Fund. This fund will invest directly into new companies across the Midwest and help our economy grow. I look forward to continuing to work with them to bring these needed investments to communities like ours,” said Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH). “This is another example of how Tim Ryan thinks outside the box to build a strong economic infrastructure in the Midwest. Concepts like the Comeback Capital Fund will help move us from the Rustbelt to the Innovation belt. New technological investments are the most secure way to see real and long-term growth. It is a pleasure to work with Congressman Ryan as he builds bridges to the future for Youngstown and all of Northeast Ohio,” said Jamael Tito Brown, Mayor of City of Youngstown. "Access to capital is the biggest challenge our portfolio companies face. This fund will provide our companies with another avenue for finding the resources they need to go from concept to product. And, the connections to the East and West Coasts will also provide access to other investors, technology experts, marquis customers and talent," said Barb Ewing, Chief Executive Officer of the Youngstown Business Incubator. The Comeback Capital Fund is targeting pre-seed stage companies whose customer base lies in the Midwest and that should stay in the Midwest. "Capital should be mobile. Startups serving customers in the Midwest should not move to San Francisco to raise money and then try to serve customers in Youngstown, Detroit and Indianapolis from California. The capital should move here instead," said Scott Shane, managing director of the Comeback Capital Fund. "Supporting very early stage founders and creating connections is a big vision and critical to success I’m excited to be involved with Comeback Capital as an LP and advisor. The fund is addressing key challenges facing high-potential startups based outside Silicon Valley as well as investors looking for opportunities. Early stage companies require access to know-how and knowledge networks in addition to capital to succeed. It’s also difficult for investors to find promising early stage companies outside of their core areas. The Comeback Capital team is close to the market and has the local experience to bridge this gap. I’m confident this combination will result in many new entrepreneurs solving unique problems in different places,” said Patrick McKenna, Founder, HighRidge Venture Partners. Each of Comeback Capital’s LPs are active investors and all have agreed to agree to advise at least one company in the fund. The concept here is to build the network ties between Midwestern startups and coastal investors and to bring coastal expertise in financing start-ups to the Midwest. A second tour is kicking off tomorrow (October 17-19th) in the South, with a focus on historically black colleges and universities. Stops will include cities in NC, SC, and GA. Representatives Ryan and Khanna will again host the trip, along with Representative Jim Clyburn (D-SC) – who serves as Assistant Minority Leader of the House of Representative, third in Democratic Leadership. Bloomberg Beta will again help organize the investors and tour.
10.15.2018	Lordstown, OH -- Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) released the following statement marking the passage of today's deadline to submit additional legal challenges to the TJX HomeGoods project. Today marks 30 days since Trumbull County Common Pleas Judge Peter Kontos ruled in favor of the TJX HomeGoods distribution site in Lordstown. "As of this afternoon, the deadline for further legal action to block the TJX HomeGoods project has passed. After many months of meetings, debates, campaigns, and litigation, I am excited that it is finally time to get construction underway. This new facility will be a huge boon for Lordstown and our entire community. So many people have worked together to make sure this project became reality, and today, that effort has come yet another step closer to fruition. I would like to give a special thank you to Senator Sean O’Brien and Representative Glenn Holmes for their diligent work on this matter, as well as Mayor Hill of Lordstown for his tireless advocacy, James Dignan at Youngstown/Warren Regional Chamber, and the team at Jobs Ohio." said Congressman Tim Ryan.
10.12.2018	Akron, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) announced a $250,000 U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) grant for Asian Services In Action (ASIA) in Akron. The grant will fund “Akron Food Works!” – a partnership between ASIA, The Well Community Development Corporation, and other organizations in the local food system – which will create a local food enterprise center focused on revitalizing Akron, Ohio's economy by training, supporting, incubating, and connecting small food-based businesses, from farmers to canners to caterers. The grant from the USDA’s National Institute of Food and Agriculture is aimed at fostering self-sustaining solutions that help make healthy foods available to families living in low-income neighborhoods. “Access to healthy food is not only critical to the physical health of a community’s residents, but also its economy. Asian Services in Action’s commitment to supporting food-based businesses and immigrant communities will strengthen our local food system, bring healthier food to everyone’s tables, and boost our local economy,” said Congressman Ryan. “Congress must continue to support public and private partnerships like these so that no child or family goes hungry. I congratulate ASIA and its CEO Michael Byun for receiving this grant.” "Food security and the economic well-being of our community are two key issues for us in Summit County and the City of Akron. We are extremely proud of this opportunity - a partnership of the Well Community Development Corporation, Asian Services In Action's HAPI Fresh farmers' market program, and other stakeholders in the local food system - to find a solution that is community-specific and community-responsive. The ultimate goal is to empower our small-businesses, the engine of our local economy, and to accelerate the economic revitalization that is already well underway here," said Michael Byun, Chief Executive Officer of Asian Services In Action. To view the project and award info, click here.
10.11.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) announced Social Security benefits will increase by 2.8 percent in 2019. The 2.8 percent cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) will begin with benefits payable to more than 62 million Social Security beneficiaries in January 2019. Increased payments to more than 8 million SSI beneficiaries will begin on December 31, 2018. The Social Security Act ties the annual COLA to the increase in the Consumer Price Index as determined by the Department of Labor’s Bureau of Labor Statistics. “Social Security is one of our most important social programs, having helped millions of seniors, people with disabilities, and survivors make ends meet. This 2.8 percent increase is great news and will benefit the 62 million people who rely on this crucial program and are facing increasing cost of living,” said Congressman Ryan. “Protecting and expanding Social Security continues to be one of my top priorities, and I remain committed to stopping those who seek to make cuts to this critical program.” Some other adjustments that take effect in January of each year are based on the increase in average wages. Based on that increase, the maximum amount of earnings subject to the Social Security tax (taxable maximum) will increase to $132,900 from $128,400. Social Security and SSI beneficiaries are normally notified by mail in early December about their new benefit amount. This year, for the first time, most people who receive Social Security payments will be able to view their COLA notice online through their my Social Security account. People may create or access their my Social Security account online at www.socialsecurity.gov/myaccount. Information about Medicare changes for 2019, when announced, will be available at www.medicare.gov. For Social Security beneficiaries receiving Medicare, Social Security will not be able to compute their new benefit amount until after the Medicare premium amounts for 2019 are announced. Final 2019 benefit amounts will be communicated to beneficiaries in December through the mailed COLA notice and my Social Security’s Message Center. The Social Security Act provides for how the COLA is calculated. To read more, please visit www.socialsecurity.gov/cola.
10.10.2018	Youngstown, OH – Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Bill Johnson (R-OH) urged the United States Army Corps of Engineers to provide funding to update the water control plans for the three reservoirs feeding the Mahoning River: Berlin Reservoir, Michael J Kirwan Reservoir, and Mosquito Creek Lake. The water control manual containing the water control plan was originally developed in the late 1970s. The letter, which was signed by both members, laid out how--over the past several decades--conditions have changed in the watershed such that an update of these water control manuals could positively impact local businesses and recreational users who rely on the reservoirs. “Updating the water control plans for the network of reservoirs that feed into the Mahoning River is critical to our community’s economic well-being. Outdated control plans have led to premature lowering of water levels – specifically at Berlin Reservoir – that hinder economic opportunities for residents in the area. Providing funding to update these protocols is a sensible thing to do to balance the needs of residents, as well as the safety of the whole region,” said Rep. Ryan. “Updating the water control plans for these three reservoirs is long overdue, and I am hopeful this letter will encourage the Army Corps of Engineers to take swift action. We must balance the economic needs and opportunities of the Berlin Lake community, while appropriately addressing related safety and water control concerns. I’ll continue working to find real solutions to address this issue,” said Rep. Johnson. Text of the letter can be found below, and a scan of the original letter can be found here: October 4, 2018 Ryan Fisher Principal Deputy for the Assistant Secretary Directorate of Civil Works U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 441 G Street NW Washington, DC 20314-1000 Dear Deputy Fisher: We write to urge the United States Army Corps of Engineers to provide funding to update the water control manuals for the three reservoirs feeding the Mahoning River: Berlin Reservoir, Michael J Kirwan Reservoir, and Mosquito Creek Lake. The water control manual containing the water control plan was originally developed in the late 1970s. Over the past several decades, conditions have changed in the watershed such that an update of these water control manuals could positively impact the socio-economics of the region. It is also the case that the drawdown to winter pool elevation at Berlin Reservoir begins in July, which negatively impacts recreational use of the lake and, and as a result creates a lack of opportunities for socio-economic benefits. It is our understanding this drawdown occurs to meet flow requirements for the river and not for flood risk management. We therefore request your support for Fiscal Year 2019 workplan funding for these important water control plan updates. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress Bill Johnson Member of Congres
10.09.2018	Washington, DC—U.S. Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Tim Walberg (R-MI) today introduced H.R. 7049, the Great Lakes Restoration Semipostal Stamp Act, to strengthen efforts to protect the Great Lakes ecosystem. The bipartisan legislation would create a special postage stamp designed to raise money to support the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). “The Great Lakes are a vital resource and strategic advantage for our region. It’s critical that we do everything in our power, no matter how big or small, to safeguard their health and well-being. Lake Erie alone supports more than 117,000 full time jobs and provides clean drinking water to approximately 3 million Ohioans,” said Rep. Ryan. “I am happy to join this effort to support the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative with more funds to carry out its important responsibility.” “The Great Lakes are a treasured asset that drive our economy and way of life here in Michigan and throughout the Midwest. We should be looking for ways, both big and small, to preserve them for future generations to enjoy,” said Rep. Walberg. “The GLRI, in particular, is delivering real results to improve the long-term health of the Great Lakes. Our bipartisan bill will help generate even more resources for the GLRI so the program can expand its restoration work.” The Great Lakes Restoration Semipostal Stamp Act directs the United States Postal Service to issue a semipostal stamp with Great Lakes artwork. Citizens would then have the choice of purchasing the stamps at a price slightly above that of first-class postage, with the difference being transferred to support the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). The legislation comes at no additional cost to taxpayers.
10.06.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) released the following statement in response to the confirmation of Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court. “The past several months of the confirmation process have shown one thing with jarring clarity: Brett Kavanaugh lacks the temperament and character to be a member of the United States Supreme Court. Today’s vote to confirm him will do lasting damage to the integrity of the Court, as well as the American people’s trust in its institutions to do the right thing. Kavanaugh's confirmation has reinforced what we already knew: Republicans want a Supreme Court willing to fight for corporations’ rights as a ‘person,’ but not for the rights of workers to collectively bargain and earn a living wage. They want a court that will fight to uphold Citizens United and allow unlimited money in our political system, but not for a loving same-sex couple to join together in marriage. And, most importantly, they want a court that will toss aside established precedent and take away a women’s right to her own healthcare and reproductive decisions. These things are of such high priority to them, that they’re willing to ram through a person who has been credibly accused of multiple instances of sexual assault, simply because he’ll vote their way on the bench. Like so many millions of Americans, I was moved by Dr. Blasey Ford’s testimony. I believe her. I am ashamed at the Republican’s treatment of Dr. Ford, and the rushed, incomplete investigation that came out of it. It was never about the truth. Brett Kavanaugh’s confirmation is truly a low point for our great nation,” said Congressman Ryan.
10.01.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement in response to the Trump Administration’s release of updated text for a new, trilateral trade agreement. “NAFTA has hurt millions of American workers, devastated communities and wiped out our manufacturing base. Nowhere is that more evident than in Northeast Ohio. That’s why I’ve been fighting to replace NAFTA with a fair deal since I was first elected to Congress. I am pleased that the text of this renegotiated NAFTA makes great strides towards prioritizing workers. This agreement as it stands creates rules to give workers a level playing field. But rules are only good if they can be and will be enforced. As I study this new agreement I want to make sure the enforcement mechanisms are strong, especially when it comes to the labor and environmental standards enforcement of this agreement,” said Congressman Ryan. “I’ve always maintained that any new deal must raise wages, include strong environmental standards, protect workers’ rights and freedoms, cut back outsourcing, and put the interests of working families ahead of international corporations in all three countries. While there is still work to do on a number of important provisions, I am encouraged that we are moving in a direction that fulfills those critical requirements. As I review the text, I will continue to pressure the Administration to achieve a strong, trilateral agreement that puts American workers first. I look forward to evaluating the agreement by that standard."
09.28.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) today met with a delegation of Youngstown elected officials and community leaders to discuss the city’s BUILD Grant (formally known as TIGER Grant) application as they advocated to the United States Department of Transportation (USDOT) to grant this important funding. The Eastgate project will have a total development cost of $26,274,332 – with $10,853,192 being requested from the USDOT BUILD Grant program. “This project will be transformational for the Mahoning Valley and I was proud to host the Youngstown delegation in Washington, DC and assist the City of Youngstown in advocating for this important funding. We have a talented team that has vowed to do everything in its power to make sure that our BUILD Grant application is approved and these federal funds come back to our community.” This funding will enhance mobility, improve safety, and integrate technology into a modern and efficient multimodal transportation system in Downtown Youngstown that is responsive and adaptive to the needs of current and future users. This project will capitalize on existing roadway capacity to incorporate improving pedestrian and bicycle facilities, autonomous transit shuttles, transit waiting environments, green infrastructure, streetscaping, and wayfinding so as to efficiently connect major regional anchor institutions impacting economic resurgence in the region, including Youngstown State University, Mercy Health, Youngstown Business Incubator, and Eastern Gateway Community College. Members of the delegation included: -Mayor Jamael Tito Brown, City of Youngstown -Jim Tressel, President, Youngstown State University -Mike Hripko, Associate VP for Research, Youngstown State University -Kevin Flinn, Commissioner of Building and Grounds, City of Youngstown -James Kinnick, Executive Director, Eastgate Council of Governments -James Dignan, President and CEO, Youngstown-Warren Regional Chamber -Charlie Nelson, Western Reserve Transit Authority -Paul Homack, Mercy Health
09.27.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) made the following statement regarding the Ford-Kavanaugh Senate Judiciary Hearing today: “I was deeply moved by Dr. Christine Ford’s testimony today. I believe her. Brett Kavanaugh does not deserve to be on the Supreme Court of the United States, and his nomination should be revoked immediately. No one should have to relive one of the worst days of their lives in front of the entire country. I want to thank Dr. Ford for her courage and bravery, and I am praying for her, her family and victims of sexual assault across our country.”
09.26.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13)--a member of the Defense Appropriations Committee--voted in support of the Fiscal Year 2019 Defense Appropriations Act, a bill that supports our warfighters, restores military readiness, and bolsters our Armed Forces. This minibus also included funding for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education. The bill now heads to the President for his signature. “In addition to providing much-needed federal funding to our local communities, this bill provides the largest pay raise in nine years for our troops and increases funding for military readiness,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Our country is in a global competition with China and Russia, and this funding helps us keep our position as a leader on the world stage. It also modernizes our Armed Forces for the future of warfare by properly funding research and development. I am pleased that this bill provides the necessary funding to support the Soldiers, Sailors, Marines, and Airmen who work at Camp Ravenna and Youngstown Air Reserve Station on a daily basis.” Overall, the bill includes a 2.6% increase in pay for our troops; funding above the request for defense related medical research; a boost in base funding for our military by $17.1 billion above FY18 levels; and $145.7 billion for equipment procurement. Several spending provisions in the bill were inserted at the direction of Congressman Ryan: $5 million increase in counter-drone laser weapon research $10 million increase for additive manufacturing supply chain development $5 million increase for improvement of life cycle maintenance of military aircraft brakes $10 million increase for competitively awarded technology transition $9 million increase for new military data transmission research and development In addition to these critical defense priorities, the Departments of Labor and Health and Human Services also was provided with essential funds to act in the public good. $4.4 billion for programs to respond to the opioid crisis, including prevention, treatment, surveillance, research to develop non-opioid pain medication, behavioral health workforce training, and support for children and families, which is $0.1 billion more than the FY 2018 enacted level $1.5 billion for SAMHSA’s State Opioid Response Grants, an increase of $500 million more than the FY 2018 enacted level $725 million for the Community Services Block Grant, which is $10 million more than the FY 2018 enacted level $1.3 billion for Career and Technical Education, which is $70 million more than the FY 2018 enacted level $10 billion for Head Start, which is $200 million more than the FY 2018 enacted level. Of the total increase, $50 million is provided for Early Head Start $274 million for the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) $39.1 billion for the National Institutes of Health (NIH), which is $2 billion more than the FY 2018 enacted level
09.25.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) announces that the Portage Area Regional Transportation Authority (PARTA) will receive a $165,330 grant from the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) of the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT). As part of FTA’s Buses and Bus Facilities Infrastructure Investment Program, the grant will go toward upgrading PARTA’s bus wash to be compressed natural gas (CNG) station compliant. Congressman Ryan sent a letter of support on this project to DOT Secretary Elaine Chao on August 2, 2018. “Over a million people rely on the Portage Area Regional Transportation Authority to get to work, school, the doctor’s office, and everywhere they need to go every day. These are the kinds of investments we need for our cities, and I’m proud to lend my support for these types of grants,” said Congressman Ryan. “This funding will go a long way in upgrading PARTA’s infrastructure and ensure it continues to deliver dependable transit service to all Ohioans. I congratulate PARTA General Manager Claudia Amrhein on securing this important grant.” “Congressman Ryan’s advocacy is essential for securing limited federal dollars to support infrastructure investments in Portage County, and PARTA values and appreciates his ongoing support. PARTA is completing construction of the first Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) fueling station in Portage County, and the $165,330 award will make PARTA’s maintenance facility fully CNG-compliant,” said Claudia B. Amrhein, Portage Area Regional Transportation Authority General Manager. “The CNG station will be open to the public, introducing a clean, domestic, safe, and cost-efficient fueling option for local fleets. Safe, reliable transit service depends on many factors, and Congressman Ryan’s support for FTA investment in PARTA brings numerous benefits to our community.” In April of 2018, Ryan announced $2,668,750 grant for PARTA from the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) of the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) for the construction of an indoor storage facility aimed at improving working conditions and vehicle maintenance. The current facility does not have the capacity to store the vehicles. Read more here.
09.21.2018	Youngstown, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) announced a $138,500 Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) grant to the Mahoning County Career and Technical Center (MCCTC) for live fire training equipment. According to ARC, at least 44 adults will obtain new employment as firefighters, 600 current firefighters will receive regular or advanced techniques certifications, and 25 other workers will receive safety certificates. In addition to ARC funds, state sources will provide $18,005, and local sources will provide $120,495, bringing the total project funding to $277,000. “MCCTC has played a pivotal role in our community by training and educating thousands of people so they can succeed in the U.S. workforce. This critical funding from ARC will help MCCTC continue its mission of education and opportunity by training 44 new firefighters and providing advanced education to 600 current firefighters. This funding will go a long way in ensuring that our first responders have the best, most up to date skills, while keeping our community safe,” said Congressman Ryan. “It cannot be stressed enough how important ARC’s investments are to our community and others around the nation. As long as I am a member of Congress, I will fight against proposed cuts and make sure ARC continues to engage in its life-saving development work.” “This Fire tower training center grant is a great benefit to not only the Mahoning County Career and Technical Center Fire training program but will truly help develop a strong public safety workforce throughout the region,” said John Zehentbauer, MCCTC Superintendent. “We are truly appreciative of the hard work of our local and state leaders and legislators for supporting us in this project, we are looking forward to breaking ground early this winter. This recent grant along with the previous State budget allocations have made this state of the art safe training center a reality for our regions future and current fire fighters to train locally.” In a press release from ARC, it says funds will be used for equipment and supplies in programs serving adult and high school students seeking education in professional firefighting and related fields. Firefighters from 41 Mahoning Valley fire departments will also utilize the requested equipment. This equipment includes: live fire simulation containers, roof ventilation props, rope and rappelling simulators, a wall breaching simulator, a high rise stairwell rescue simulator, a configurable self-contained breathing maze with movable walls, and a fully integrated temperature monitoring system mandated by the National Fire Protection Association. In addition to public safety students, students from other career credential programs, such as culinary arts and machine and industrial based programs, will use their requested equipment for training in how to extinguish and manage fire hazards in their respective fields. Local nursing homes, hospitals and institutional facilities will also use the equipment for required employee training in preventing and extinguishing fires in the workplace.
09.21.2018	Youngstown, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) praised the release of $755,000 in grant funding for OH-13 from the Department of Health and Human Services to help combat the opioid addiction crisis in Ohio. Asian Service Action and Axesspointe Community Health Center, Inc. in Akron will receive $285,000 each, while Ohio North East Health Systems, Inc. will receive $185,000. This funding will be provided through the Expanding Access to Quality Substance Use Disorder and Mental Health Services (SUD-MH) through the Health Resources and Services Administration. A total of $12,951,245 will be distributed to 43 health centers in Ohio and $352,289,768 to 1,232 health centers to help combat this ongoing crisis nationwide. “There isn’t a community in the United States that hasn’t been touched by the opioid crisis. This funding is badly needed by countless families in my district, Ohio and all across the nation. I am reminded every day of the horrible suffering that this epidemic is inflicting on our neighbors, relatives, and friends,” said Congressman Ryan. “I will continue to fight to make sure that our community gets the resources it needs to combat this crisis. Continued federal funding is critical to helping communities push back against this horrible epidemic, and start rebuilding neighborhoods that are suffering.” This is in addition to the $55,790,598 in federal funds coming to Ohio through the State Opioid Response Grants, which is aimed at tackling the opioid epidemic through treatment and recovery support programs. This funding originates from the “21st Century CURES” Act, legislation passed in December 2016 that provided $1 billion over two years to fight the heroin and prescription drug epidemic. As Co-Chair of the Bipartisan Congressional Addiction, Treatment, and Recovery Caucus, Congressman Ryan has been on the forefront of passing both these pieces of legislation.
09.20.2018	Akron, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) joins eBay Inc and Akron Mayor Dan Horrigan today to announce that Akron will launch eBay@Home, the company’s first formal work-from-home program within the Global Customer Experience organization. The program will create close to 300 remote, full-time customer service positions globally, including 120 positions in the U.S., by the end of 2018. After the successful launch of eBay@Home in Ireland in 2017, along with a work-from-home program in the StubHub business unit, eBay is now bringing eBay@Home to the U.S., immediately hiring over 40 new eBay@Home roles in Akron, OH. eBay also is inviting 80 existing customer service employees currently based in its Salt Lake City, UT, and Austin, TX, facilities to join the eBay@Home program in their home states. “This is exciting news. Not only was Akron the first in the country for eBay’s Retail Revival program, but it’s also now the first U.S. city to launch the eBay@Home program. This is a testament to the skill and potential Akron residents have to make these programs successful. We must continue to support investments like these that bring jobs, full-time benefits, continued education, and on-the-job training which ultimately lifts up and rejuvenates our communities,” said Congressman Ryan. “ eBay@Home will allow us to get closer to our customers in the communities in which they live and work to better serve their needs. The caliber of applicants in the Akron area has exceeded our expectations, and we’re thrilled to officially welcome our first new hires into the eBay family,” said Paul Gazeley, Head of North America Customer Service Operations at eBay. “We are thrilled to be selected as the first community for the eBay@Home program in the U.S. We’ve found great partners in eBay through the Retail Revival program, and we are excited to continue to expand our relationship with the eBay@Home program, which will benefit not only the Akron community but eBay buyers and sellers around the U.S.,” said Mayor Dan Horrigan. All eBay@Home employees will receive locally competitive pay and full-time benefits and will be fully integrated into the eBay community. In addition to receiving the technology necessary for their jobs, eBay@home teammates will receive five weeks’ paid virtual classroom and on-the-job training. This announcement builds upon eBay’s recent investment in the Akron community through its Retail Revival program, which helps bring traditional brick and mortar main street businesses online and to new customers around the world. To date, the more than 100 small businesses in the program have sold to all 50 states and 60 countries. eBay plans to expand eBay@Home to more cities in 2019, as well as invest in new efforts to continue improving its customer service experience for both buyers and sellers.
09.18.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) today, along with Congressman David McKinley (R-WV) introduced the Clean Up Our Neighborhoods Act of 2018. This legislation would authorize the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to make grants to States to eliminate blight by taking down abandoned homes, clearing vacant lots, and assist in distressed neighborhood revitalization. “There are currently 1.3 million vacant residential properties in America. Many thousands of them in Midwest communities like Youngstown and Akron, Ohio and Detroit and Flint, Michigan. Our ultimate goal must be to completely eliminate blighted structures in America and this bill is a big step in that direction. The economic and social costs of these abandoned buildings and vacant lots cannot be overstated. We know from studies that abandoned properties can cost neighbors tens of thousands of dollars in property value losses. According to FEMA, $777 million in property loss occurs each year from fires started in these structures,” said Congressman Ryan. “Living near vacant homes and lots can also lead to negative public health and social outcomes. Studies show blight can increase criminal activity by creating physical spaces for violence—especially gun violence. Many families and individuals living in these neighborhoods experience lower literacy rates, higher rates of chronic illness, developmental delays, and premature mortality. A nation as wealthy as the United States cannot be content while large sections of our urban centers lay abandoned, endangering the communities around them. My legislation will get to the root of this problem, putting the resources of the US Federal Government on the ground level to make Americans’ lives better.” “Abandoned buildings and vacant lots are an eyesore to the community and can negatively impact economic development. This bill will provide more resources to empower rural and urban communities alike to mitigate blight, which will improve our neighborhoods and give a boost to revitalization efforts," said Congressman McKinley. “We have 54 county land banks in Ohio and the primary reason so many of them came into existence was to deal with blight—the tens of thousands of vacant and abandoned structures that drag down Ohio’s communities. These abandoned structures make our communities less safe, less desirable and have destroyed property values. This bill will give us a badly needed tool that we need to deal with this crippling problem of blight,” Said Jim Rokakis, Vice President of the Western Reserve Land Conservancy "The proposed blight elimination bill could have a great impact on Trumbull County, where like so many other Ohio communities we have been fighting vacancy and blight issues for years. The Trumbull County Land Bank has been the driver of residential demolition activities since our inception in 2011, and this bill will allow for the much-needed funding to raze the lingering vacant and dilapidated commercial properties plaguing our neighborhoods, while also providing the opportunity to create resident driven public green space projects." Said Shawn Carvin, Trumbull County Land Bank Director “This legislation is absolutely critical to continue the work we, and our partners, are doing to strengthen neighborhoods – particularly in communities most vulnerable to the negative effects of abandonment and blight. We appreciate the work that Congressman Ryan has put forth to support local communities. We, like many others, are still facing a crisis that cannot be solved without additional support, and we look forward to supporting any efforts that will help strengthen and rebuild our neighborhoods,” said Patrick L. Bravo, MPA, JD, Executive Director of the Summit County Land Bank "To date, Mahoning County Land Bank has removed approximately 800 vacant, abandoned, blighted houses in 14 communities, making neighborhoods safer, cleaner and more secure for residents," said Daniel R. Yemna, Chairman of the Mahoning County Land Bank "We need to build on this momentum to meet Mahoning County's remaining residential demolition needs and strategically address abandoned commercial properties, especially those that are detrimental to neighborhood vitality," said Debora Shaulis, Executive Director of the Mahoning County Land Bank The bill would direct the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to make competitive grants to states to eliminate blight and promote neighborhood revitalization. Funding from the award can be used for demolition, clearance and removal of blighted structures, boarding of vacant properties and blighted structures, removal of waste and stabilization activities in connection with providing vacant, green space for the purpose of public access and redevelopment. States must match 15 percent of the amount of the grant. You can read the full text of the bill here.
09.14.2018	Youngstown, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) today announced $59,081 in FY18 HUD-VASH grant funding for the Trumbull Metropolitan Housing Authority. Funding for HUD-VASH vouchers will enable homeless veterans to access affordable housing along with an array of supportive services form the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. “This funding is welcomed news. One of the greatest responsibilities I have as a member of the United State Congress is to make sure that our veterans are cared for when they come home. I take this responsibly very seriously, and remain a steadfast supporter of maintaining and expanding veteran support services just like this one through my position on the Defense, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittees. No one should be sleeping on the streets in the wealthiest nation on earth, especially those who have served to preserve and protect our values abroad,” said Congressman Ryan. The HUD-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program combines Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) rental assistance for homeless Veterans with case management and clinical services provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). VA provides these services for participating Veterans at VA medical centers (VAMCs) and community-based outreach clinics.
09.14.2018	Youngstown, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) released the following statement in response to Judge Peter Kontos’s refusal to issue a permanent injunction blocking construction of a TJX Home Goods distribution center in the village of Lordstown. “I applaud Judge Kontos for ruling to allow the TJX project to proceed. After many months of meetings, debates, campaigns, and litigation it is finally time to get construction underway. This new facility will be a huge victory for Lordstown and our entire community. So many people in this community have worked together to make sure this project became reality, and today, that effort has come yet another step closer to reality. This is what’s best for Northeast Ohio,” said Congressman Tim Ryan.
09.14.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) yesterday voted in favor of The Nuclear Energy Innovation Capabilities Act (H.R. 431), bipartisan legislation to bolster nuclear energy research and development. The bill was passed on the Floor with a voice vote. “I am very pleased to support this legislation, which will help facilitate the development of advanced nuclear energy technologies. The United States has a long history of leadership in nuclear energy – a clean source of energy that can help us confront the looming threat of climate change. The Nuclear Energy Innovation Capabilities Act promotes cutting edge nuclear technology and helps maintain America’s global leadership in the critical fields of science and energy. This bill plays a critical role in boosting employment at nuclear sites across Ohio, and in transitioning to a clean energy economy,” said Congressman Ryan. Background: This legislation directs the Department of Energy (DOE) to prioritize research and development (R&D) infrastructure that will enable the private sector to invest in advanced reactor technologies and provides a clear path forward to attract private investment for prototype development at DOE labs. DOE carries out civilian nuclear energy R&D through the DOE labs and universities which provide research infrastructure and employ highly trained scientists to maintain the nation’s critical R&D capabilities. The U.S. regulatory system, managed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), creates a barrier to investment for advanced reactor technologies because it is ill-equipped to process licenses in a timely and predictable manner, which further suppresses private investment and technology development. Summary of Major Provisions Amends DOE’s civilian nuclear energy R&D mission to ensure that the Department enables the private sector to partner with national labs for the purpose of developing novel reactor concepts. Provides programmatic authority for DOE to leverage its supercomputing infrastructure to accelerate nuclear energy R&D capabilities for advanced reactor technologies. Provides statutory direction for a DOE reactor-based versatile neutron source that will operate as an open-access user facility and enable researchers to conduct academic and proprietary research in the United States. Authorizes DOE to enable the private sector to construct and operate privately-funded reactor prototypes at DOE sites. Requires DOE to put forth a transparent, strategic, 10-year plan for prioritizing nuclear R&D programs while considering budget constraints.
09.13.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) released the following statement in response to the successful vote to approve of the conference committee report on three Fiscal Year 2019 spending bills: Energy and Water Development, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Legislative Branch Appropriations, which included $16.6 million for Youngstown Air Reserve Station and Camp Ravenna. Ryan is Ranking Member of the Legislative Branch Subcommittee of Appropriations and a member of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Subcommittee. “This legislative package is not perfect, but it does fund facility improvements at Youngstown Air Reserve Station and Camp Ravenna, helps veterans dealing with opioid addiction, improves VA infrastructure, supports clean and renewable energy sources, and contains a new program to compensate Congressional interns for their work. I am proud to have worked with my colleagues on the committee to fight for our shared values, while being able to sideline reckless and harmful anti-environmental policy. I was happy to vote in support of this legislation on the floor, which undoubtedly will benefit my constituents in Ohio’s 13th Congressional District, and Northeast Ohio,” said Congressman Ryan. Specifics of the filed conference report include: YARS and Camp Ravenna The conference report provides $8.8 million for base security infrastructure at Youngstown Air Reserve Station (YARS) and $7.4 million for a new machine gun range at Camp Ravenna. Both investments came through Congressman Ryan’s Milcon/VA Subcommittee. Ryan inserted bill language into the Milcon/VA bill that expedited $8.8 million for YARS. Veteran Wellness The conference report creates a new $10 million pilot program to finance construction at veterans service organizations that would enhance their delivery of health and wellness services. This program will expand complementary and integrative health care options for veterans. Veteran Hospice Care Congressman Ryan fought for and secured a pilot program to provide hospice care tailored to the unique end-of-life care needs of combat veterans. A Rejection of Proposed Trump Budget Cuts The conference report rejects President Trump’s extreme budget cuts, restoring $8.1 billion in funding for important priorities that create jobs, strengthen our economy, and build a better future for all Americans. Increases In Funding for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy The conference report provides $2.38 billion for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy programs in the Department of Energy to support the development of clean, renewable, and energy efficiency technologies across the country. The conference reports reverses a House cut of $243 million and provides $57 million above the FY 2018 enacted level. Support for Advanced Energy Technology Research and Development The conference report provides $366 million for the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E), which promotes and funds research and development of advanced energy technology. The conference report reverses a House cut of $28 million, rejects President Trump’s proposed elimination of the agency, and provides $12.7 million above the FY 2018 enacted level. Resources For Improved VA Infrastructure The conference report provides the second installment of $2 billion for VA infrastructure needs. The funding includes $800 million for Medical Facilities for non-recurring maintenance, $750 million for seismic improvements, $300 million for Major Construction, and $150 million for Minor Construction. Expanded Opioid Prevention and Treatment for Veterans The conference report provides $348 million for opioid treatment and prevention programs and $52 million to continue to implement opioid safety initiatives outlined as part of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, as well as to develop programs aimed at ensuring that non-VA providers treating veterans through community care programs are informed and in compliance with all VA standards for opioid safety and prescription guidelines. Newly Created Program for Intern Compensation The conference report provides $8.8 million in a new dedicated funding stream for Member’s offices to pay interns. Each Member’s office may use $20,000 of that money to pay interns over the course of the calendar year. Interns paid through this account do not count against the limit on paid employees.
09.12.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan and Senator Sherrod Brown today announced that the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) has approved a National Dislocated Worker Grant application submitted by the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services. The grant will provide up to $1,750,000, with an initial award of $875,000, for Lordstown workers impacted by GM’s significant layoffs over the last two years. The funds will provide employment and training services to approximately 337 of the 1,686 workers affected by layoffs from the General Motors plant in Lordstown, as well as from three additional auto industry suppliers in northeastern Ohio. Following the GM layoffs, Ryan and Brown wrote to DOL Secretary Acosta urging the department provide relief for the workers and families in Northeast Ohio. Ryan and Brown encouraged the State of Ohio to apply for the grant. “I welcome this federal assistance for workers laid-off by GM Lordstown. General Motors’ sudden and drastic employment reduction has not only harmed the economic security of workers at the Lordstown Assembly Complex. The massive layoffs are sending ripples through the broader automotive supply chain, adversely affecting the entire region. These cut backs were no fault of the workers, who are the best our nation has to offer. I will continue to fight in Congress to make sure that every single worker at the Lordstown facility is taken care of until they can be hired back, or find work elsewhere. I will also keep up the pressure on the Trump Administration and GM leadership to take any and all steps necessary to assure the facility has place in our community. My goal is and will remain a fully staffed, robust production facility at GM Lordstown. The economic wellbeing of Northeast Ohio depends on it,” said Ryan. “After Ohio gave millions to this company, GM turned its back on Ohio – all while making record profits and reaping the rewards of the tax bill,” said Brown. “This Department of Labor grant will help the workers who helped build this company access the resources and retraining needed to find new jobs and support their families.” GM’s announcement that it would lay off the second shift at the Lordstown plant came just over a year after GM laid off the third shift, or 1,200 workers, at the same facility. GM is the primary employer in the region, and the elimination of nearly 3,000 jobs at the plant over the last two years has had significant economic consequences for the northeast region of Ohio. National Dislocated Worker Grants (DWGs) are discretionary grants awarded by the Secretary of Labor to provide resources to states and other eligible applicants in response to large, unexpected layoff events causing significant job losses. This funding is intended to temporarily expand capacity to serve dislocated workers, including military service members, and meet the increased demand for employment and training services, with a purpose to reemploy laid off workers and enhance their employability and earnings. A copy of the letter Brown and Ryan sent to DOL on August 22, 2018 can be found here: Dear Secretary Acosta: We write in support the National Dislocated Worker Grant application submitted by the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services in the wake of the recently announced layoff of 1,500 workers at the GM plant in Lordstown, Ohio. We urge you to process this application expeditiously. GM’s announcement that it would lay off the second shift at the Lordstown plant comes just over a year after GM laid off the third shift, or 1,200 workers, at the same facility. GM is the primary employer in the region, and the elimination of nearly 3,000 jobs at the plant over the last two years will have significant economic consequences for the northeast region of Ohio. A National Dislocated Worker Grant will be critical to ensuring the Lordstown community and northeast Ohio have the resources they need to help the affected workers get the workforce training and job placement services they need to find new jobs. We urge you to consider Ohio’s application for these funds as quickly as possible so that the workers and the community can begin the process of recovering from these layoffs. Sincerely, Senator Sherrod Brown Congressman Tim Ryan
09.12.2018	Girard, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) announced a grant award of $281,247 to the Girard Fire Department. This funding comes in the form of the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grant as part of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The grant will be used to hire three additional firefighters/paramedics. Congressman Ryan sent a letter of support for Girard’s SAFER Grant. “Every day, our first responders put their lives on the line to keep our community safe. It’s important that Congress continues to invest in our first responders, and I always offer my support and advocate for increased funding for these types of grants,” said Congressman Ryan. “This grant will allow the Girard Fire Department to ensure they are appropriately staffed to properly serve the 9,5000 residents in the City of Girard. I congratulate Fire Chief Ken Bornemiss for his hard work in obtaining this grant.” “We are excited about the SAFER Grant. We feel it is going to improve firefighter safety and the safety of the community. We want to thank Congressman Tim Ryan’s office for their support,” said Girard Fire Chief Ken Bornemiss.
09.07.2018	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) made the following statement in response to the announced delay of the Claudia Hoerig trial until January of 2019. “While I understand the circumstances, I am disappointed that this trial has been delayed and that justice must continue to wait,” said Rep. Ryan. “I have much admiration and every confidence in Prosecutor Watkins and his team. They have been tireless in their efforts over this past decade and I am fully confident that their steadfast work will finally bring Claudia Hoerig to justice and help to provide the closure that the Hoerig family so deeply deserves.”
09.06.2018	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) today announced $3,723,765 in federal research grants from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the National Science Foundation to be awarded to Kent State University. “Kent State University has been at the forefront of academic research and education. It’s important we continue to invest in research to further push the boundaries of science and discovery. Our nation benefits greatly when our academic institutions, researchers, and students are given the resources to pursue these innovative projects,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “This is why I continue to support and advocate for these types of federal research grants. These are well-deserved and only further highlight Kent State’s outstanding academic record.” “I cannot overstate how pleased we are that our faculty have been so successful in winning such substantial federal funding awards during these highly competitive times,” said Paul DiCorleto, Ph.D., Kent State’s vice president for research and sponsored programs. “Not only do these grants show impressive progress toward the university’s goal of increasing its national profile in research and innovation, but the range of projects really highlights the diversity of Kent State’s research strengths.” Kent State University has received the following six federal grant awards through HHS: Multimodal probes for imaging neuroendocrine circuits and the neurovasculature received $73,394 Emotion Processing Deficits and Risk for Impairment in Child Injury Victims received $459,129 Regulation of sperm metabolism and fertility by calcineurin and GSK3 received $75,000 Sex differences in the developing oxytocin system received $450,000 Specific Recognition of G-quadruplexes received $344,481 Defining the in vivo role of Huwe1 in p53 regulation received $75,000 Kent State University has received the following six federal grant awards through the National Science Foundation: CAREER: Manganese biogeochemistry and impacts on carbon storage in plant-soil systems received $487,222 Collaborative Research: Connecting local stormwater decision-making to environmental outcomes received $236,633 EAGER: Managing our expectations: quantifying and characterizing misleading trajectories in ecological processes received $175,624 CAREER: Dense Phases in Neutron Stars received $425,000 Tail-Free Discotic Liquid Crystals received $499,282 How do cytosolic proteins interact with lipid droplets? A bio-physical chemical approach to an unresolved biological problem received $423,000
09.05.2018	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH), Ranking Member of the House Legislative Branch Appropriations Subcommittee, secured a provision in the Legislative Branch Appropriations bill (part of the combined Military Construction/VA, Energy and Water, and Legislative Branch Appropriations minibus) to provide $8.8 million in funding to compensate U.S. House of Representatives interns for their work on behalf of the American people. “Congressional offices could not run without the assistance of interns. While there is no doubt that interns gain valuable professional experience, I have heard the frustration and stories from interns who are struggling to pay for housing, meals, and transportation while interning without pay on Capitol Hill. It is far past time they are compensated for all their hard work,” said Rep. Tim Ryan. “Because the bulk of Congressional Internships are unpaid, they are implicitly easier for individuals from privileged backgrounds to participate in and complete. By providing this dedicated funding to help House offices pay their interns, we are moving to level the playing field and provide opportunities for young Americans who may not otherwise have the financial means necessary to dedicate a full semester or summer to an unpaid internship. Fair wages for a fair day’s work is the cornerstone of the American Dream. I’ve always fought for that, and I’ll keep fighting to make sure that any student interested in public service has the opportunity to intern on Capitol Hill.” “Today’s decision to designate $8.8 million in dedicated funding for paid internships is win for bipartisanship and for increasing diversity within our government. There should not be a price tag when it comes to public service. This new dedicated funding will afford working-class Americans from all backgrounds the opportunity to intern in DC, to gain valuable, first-hand experience on how their government works and will foster the important professional relationships they will need to succeed. Now, we need to ensure that students who typically avoid unpaid positions know that this opportunity is open to them,” said Carlos Mark Vera, Founder of Pay Our Interns
09.05.2018	Youngstown, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) today announced $348,331 to Summit County to expand substance abuse treatment capacity in adult treatment drug courts and adult tribal healing to wellness courts. The funding comes from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). “There isn’t a single community in the United States that hasn’t been touched by the opioid epidemic. In 2017, more than 72,000 Americans died from drug overdoses; that’s 197 a day. In Summit County, there was a total of 224 drug overdose deaths in 2017 alone. Families and lives have been pulled apart by the devastating effects of addiction, and they are looking for relief,” said Congressman Ryan. “As Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus, I understand this crucial funding from SAMHSA will help overcome obstacles in combatting the opioid epidemic in Summit County and increase access to important services. We must remain focused and active in ensuring every community has the resources and funding to help their constituents.” “Summit County Valor Court is an invaluable resource in our community. I appreciate the Valor Court team’s work that went into securing this grant and Congressman Ryan’s advocacy on Summit County’s behalf. Serving the veterans who served all of us is not just a good thing to do, it is the right thing to do,” said Ilene Shapiro, Summit County Executive. According to SAMHSA, the purpose of Summit County’s program is to expand substance use disorder treatment services in existing adult problem solving courts, and adult Tribal Healing to Wellness courts, which use the treatment drug court model to provide substance use disorder treatment (including recovery support services, screening, assessment, case management, and program coordination) to defendants/offenders.
08.31.2018	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) today announced $178,248 in federal grant awards to the Vienna and Coventry Township Fire Departments. The Vienna Fire Department received $80,915 for operations and safety, and the Coventry Township Fire Department received $97,333 for operations and safety. This funding comes in the form of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). “This is great news for the firefighters working to protect our community. They selflessly and courageously put their lives on the line every day to ensure our safety. It’s why I lend my support for these types of federal investments and continue to advocate for increased funding for our first responders,” said Congressman Ryan. “The money from this grant will make sure our firefighters receive the best, most up to date equipment available, so the brave men and women of our fire department are able to do their job safely and properly. I congratulate Fire Chiefs Richard Brannon and John Dolesnky for their hard work in obtaining these grants.” “It's excellent that we are getting this grant and overwhelming that we got it again. The money will be used for much-needed turnout firefighter gear. Right now, the gear that we have is expired from last year and this year, and I’m grateful I get to staff my people with the gear they need,” said Vienna Fire Chief Brannon. “We will use this grant to replace our aging defibrillators which we use to restart hearts and to analyze and treat life threatening conditions; and to purchase mechanical chest compression devices which will allow us efficient and more consistent chest compressions,” said Coventry Fire Chief Dolensky.
08.29.2018	Youngstown, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) urged Secretary of Veterans Affairs Robert Wilkie to consider a public-private partnership between the VA and the Northside Regional Medical Center. In the letter from Congressman Ryan (OH-13), Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH), and Congressman Bill Johnson (OH-06), they explain how Northside Regional Medical Center could be transformed to house Veterans Affairs services, including a transitional housing space for at-risk veterans or a manufacturing center for VA prosthetics. A full copy of the letter can be found here and below: August 29, 2018 The Honorable Robert Wilkie Secretary of Veterans Affairs Office of the Secretary U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue Washington, DC 20420 VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL Re: Public-private partnership to house Veterans Affairs services at Northside Regional Medical Center – Youngstown, OH Dear Secretary Wilkie: Steward Health Care, the largest private hospital operator in the United States, recently announced it was closing its hospital in Youngstown, Ohio--Northside Regional Medical Center. After speaking with officials and community leaders in Northeast Ohio—including members of the veterans’ community—we believe there is an opportunity to utilize this community asset to create a public-private partnership involving the VA. Several ideas have been proposed for the facility, including a “Veterans Village” similar in concept to the Veterans Village of San Diego. The facility could be used by the VA to provide transitional housing for at-risk veterans and other supportive services such as substance abuse treatment. Another opportunity for the VA is to capitalize on Youngstown’s capacity for additive manufacturing. The VA could partner with America Makes—the National Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute to develop Northside Regional Medical Center into a center of excellence for VA prosthetics. By utilizing America Makes’ state of the art additive manufacturing technology, the VA could develop new prosthetics technologies for our wounded warriors. We encourage you and your staff to reach out directly to my office so that we can set up a time to engage directly with the stakeholders. Thank you for your time and consideration of this proposal. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Sherrod Brown Bill Johnson Member of Congress United States Senator Member of Congress
08.28.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH), along with 172 of his House Democratic colleagues, urged Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos to issue formal guidance prohibiting the use of federal education funding to buy firearms for teachers and school staff. In the letter sent to Secretary DeVos, House Democrats wrote that funding from Title IV-A of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) should be used for student and school services, not to purchase firearms. “Students and school staff deserve a learning environment that is safe, welcoming, and conducive to quality instruction and student learning,” the Members wrote. “Arming teachers would not only jeopardize student and staff health and safety, but also run counter to Congressional intent, precedent, and common sense.” According to press reports, the proposal under review would allow Student Support and Academic Enrichment Grants authorized under Title IV-A of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) to be used to arm teachers and other school staff. Title IV-A is a program with bipartisan support that is intended to improve school climate in high-needs schools through a wide range of approaches. Grants can be used for efforts such as expanding students’ access to mental health services, supporting drug prevention and anti-bullying campaigns, improving access to arts and STEM curriculum, and increasing the availability of cutting edge technology to support student learning. “Title IV-A affords local leaders the flexibility to tailor investments to meet local needs; however, in writing and enacting ESSA, Congress never contemplated, and thus never intended, that such flexibility would allow for the procurement of firearms,” the Members wrote. “Any use of funds to purchase weapons not only violates intent, but it also clearly contradicts the plain reading of the statute.” The text of Title IV-A of ESSA, which was signed into law in 2015, specifically promotes activities that support “a school environment free of weapons.” As recently as this year, Congress reiterated its opposition to spending federal funds to put guns in schools. In authorizing the STOP School Violence Act in the aftermath of the Parkland, Florida school shooting, Congress acted to prohibit program funds from being used for the purchase of firearms or firearms training. The letter makes clear that, even without further action by Congress, Secretary DeVos must adhere to federal law and honor the intent of Congress. The Members are asking Secretary DeVos for written confirmation, by the end of this week, of the Department’s intent to issue formal guidance prohibiting the use of federal education funding for the purchase of guns. Such guidance would uphold current policy which was recently reaffirmed by the Trump administration, as evidenced through Department of Homeland Security Grant program guidance, to prohibit the purchase of firearms using federal funds. The full text of the letter is available here.
08.27.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) released the following statement regarding President Trump’s announcement that the United States and Mexico have released an agreement in principle. “As a member of Congress one of my principle responsibilities is to ensure the American economy is inclusive and does not leave hardworking families behind. There’s no question that over its 25 year history NAFTA has hurt American workers and industries. As renegotiation continues, a future deal must prioritize workers and give them a level playing field -- I’ve been fighting for that since I was first elected. Any new deal must raise wages, protect workers’ rights and freedoms, cut back outsourcing, and put the interests of working families ahead of international corporations in all three countries. I look forward to reviewing the text of this initial agreement, and will continue to pressure the administration to achieve a strong, trilateral agreement that puts workers in the United States, Mexico, and Canada first.”
08.24.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today applauded the announcement of a $1.3 billion financing agreement to build a fully permitted 1,182 MW combined-cycle natural gas electric generating facility in Columbiana County, Ohio. This project is also known as the South Field Energy Project. Advanced Power and a group of other investors will have ownership of the project. “This is fantastic news for our region. The construction of this $1.3 billion state-of-the-art low-carbon electric generating facility will benefit both the State of Ohio’s energy grid and the citizens who rely on it every day. The South Field Energy project will create jobs and bring a significant economic windfall to Columbiana County, the surrounding area, and the whole state. Northeast Ohio is an ideal place to invest. We have the infrastructure and some of the best workers in the world. I am glad that reality is being recognized by this investment, and look forward to the project’s full completion,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. The construction of the facility is slated for completion in 2021. The project will create approximately 1,000 union construction jobs during its peak period.
08.24.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) today voiced opposition to the U.S. Department of Education’s proposed plan to reduce loan relief for defrauded students. Issued July 31st, the notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) would reduce loan relief by $12.7 billion over 10 years and deters defrauded borrowers from asserting a claim. Congressman Ryan sent a letter to Department of Education Secretary Betsy DeVos expressing his opposition. “Secretary DeVos’ proposed rule hurts students defrauded by predatory for-profit colleges and corporations. Students who have been misled and cheated by their higher education institutions shouldn't be left alone with crushing loan debt. It not only impedes their ability to contribute to society, but also makes the American dream even more out of reach,” said Congressman Ryan. “These students deserve relief, and the Department of Education should not make it harder for them to get that from those who defrauded them. I strongly oppose this proposed rule, and I urge Secretary DeVos to stand with students, not deceitful for-profit colleges and corporations.” A full copy of the letter can be found here and below: August 22, 2018 The Honorable Betsy DeVos Secretary of Education U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Ave., SW Washington, D.C. 20202 Re: Docket ID ED-2018-OPE-0027 Dear Secretary DeVos: I write in strong opposition to the U.S. Department of Education’s (the Department’s) notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) issued July 31st, 2018 that would reduce loan relief for defrauded students by $12.7 billion over 10 years and make it nearly impossible for students to have their loans discharged. Students who have been misled by their institution of higher education have a legal right to relief from their federal student loans. First enacted in 1993, Congress created this provision to protect students and taxpayers from fraud. Following the 2015 closure of Corinthian Colleges, Inc., the Department initiated negotiating rulemaking and extensive public comment to streamline the loan relief process for the more than 15,000 students left with considerable debt and no degree. Instead of using the 2016 rule to assess the growing backlog of claims, your disregard for the thorough rulemaking process and insistence on delay and reregulation has left students without relief. In fact, there are still 3,335 outstanding applications for relief in my state alone. The Department’s proposed rule undermines Congressional intent and shortchanges students to benefit corporations with a history of fraud and abuse. Specifically, the proposed rule: Makes it substantially harder for defrauded borrowers to assert a claim. By eliminating the state law standard found in the 1995 regulation and even excluding final judgements made by Federal or state courts against an institution from the list of defenses, the Department seeks to nullify state consumer protection laws and would require a borrower who successfully sues their school for fraud in state court to continue repaying loans used to attend that school while the school continues to reap the benefits of Federal student aid. Additionally, the proposed requirement that borrowers prove intent on the part of a fraudulent institution would make it nearly impossible for a borrower to assert a defense and successfully receive an adjudication by creating an unreasonable obstacle for students. Further, the Department is using the proposed standard for the misrepresentation as an excuse to prohibit automatic discharge. Lastly, the NPRM’s preamble mentions the possibility of using a higher evidentiary standard for some borrowers based on their repayment status. Given the use of “preponderance of the evidence” in the 2016 final rule and the overwhelming use of this standard in civil litigation, I encourage the Department to maintain this standard for all borrowers. Seeks to deter defrauded borrowers from asserting a claim. The Department’s proposal to accept only claims from borrowers who are in post-default collection proceedings would overturn the Department’s longstanding process and incentivize defaults, which have dire consequences for borrowers and additional costs to taxpayers. Additionally, the proposed requirements that borrowers waive their right to privacy and provide personal information, including confirmation of the “borrower’s ability to pass a drug test, satisfy criminal history or driving record requirements, and meet any health qualifications…” treat the borrower like a criminal – not an injured party, are irrelevant to the question of institutional misconduct, and are clearly intended to dissuade borrowers from asserting claims of fraud. Undermines the legal right of students to seek relief through failure to prohibit mandatory arbitration and class action waivers. In recent years, an uptick in restrictive clauses that protect the financial interests of an institution at the expense of a student’s legal right have been found hidden in enrollment contracts, particularly at for-profit institutions. Two such clauses–mandatory arbitration and class action waivers–were specifically banned under the 2016 final rule. While the Department recognizes that these restrictive clauses are not well understood by consumers and prevents the agency from noticing patterns of abuse, the proposed rule refuses to prohibit the use of these clauses. Instead, the Department puts corporations ahead of students. I urge the Department to ensure students retain their legal rights and ban mandatory arbitration and class action waivers. Limits quality completion options for students attending or recently enrolled in closed schools. While expanding the eligibility for students who left a school before closure (from 120 days to 180 days) is a positive step, the proposal would simultaneously limit the availability of discharge by disallowing students who were enrolled at the closed school prior to or during closure from seeking a discharge if the institution offers a teach-out plan. While I agree that more institutions should offer teach-out plans, it is widely known that the quality of teach-out plans vary widely and the process for determining an acceptable teach-out plan lacks rigor and consistency. In fact, your own Department acknowledged this inconsistency and lack of quality in its announcement of intent to enter negotiated rulemaking concerning teach-out plans. Further, for some students, completing their degree through a teach out plan may be undesirable. The 2016 final rule provided students with the option to choose. I recommend retaining the closed school discharge option for students enrolled or previously enrolled at a closed school, regardless if the institution has a teach out plan. Allows even the most financially unstable institutions on the brink of closure to continue benefitting from federal student aid: Recognizing the Department’s fiduciary responsibility to taxpayers, the 2016 final rule listed mandatory and discretionary triggers that could be used as early warnings for potential risk and required institutions to provide financial protection through letters of credit. Compared to the 2016 final rule, the proposed rule makes several of the mandatory triggers discretionary, eliminates several of the original discretionary triggers, and makes the triggers less predictive by narrowing the remaining triggers. These changes would make it easier for institutions to continue operating even when there is high likelihood for closure, shifting the burden of risk to taxpayers and away from low-quality institutions. In sum, the Department’s proposed rule will have significant, negative implications for both defrauded borrowers and taxpayers. I reiterate my strong opposition to the proposed rule. I urge the Department to revise the proposal to address these concerns and move quickly to provide all students the relief to which they are entitled, as intended by Congress. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
08.23.2018	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) today announced $545,114 in federal grant awards to the Youngstown, Bazetta, and Howland Fire Departments. The Youngstown Fire Department received $386,364 for vehicle acquisition, the Bazetta Fire Department received $103,894 for operations and safety, and the Howland Fire Department received $54,856 for operations and safety. This funding comes in the form of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). “There are few things more important than supporting services that help protect the lives of our families and friends, and the first responders who make that possible. Our firefighters are critical to our community as they put their lives on the line every day to ensure our safety. As a result, I always offer my support for AFG grants,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “The funding from these grants will help provide the necessary resources to equip and train our firefighters so they can meet the needs of their departments and our community. I congratulate Fire Chiefs Barry Finley, Dennis Lewis, and James Pantalone for their hard work in obtaining these grants.” “I would like to thank the firefighters, and union officials for their assistance. I would also like to thank Senator Sherrod Brown for his letter of support. I especially would like to thank Congressman Tim Ryan, he pushed really hard for us on this grant and all the grants we have received over the years,” said Youngstown Fire Chief Finley. “We are very excited on receiving this Firefighter Assistance Grant. This grant will be utilized to replace obsolete equipment that our firefighters use daily to protect our community. The Firefighter Assistance Grant is a great resource for small communities to equip there firefighters with current equipment,” said Bazetta Fire Chief Lewis. “We are excited to be granted these funds to improve our rescue tool capabilities. The replacement of aged equipment is paramount for us to continue offering specialized rescue service to our community,” said Howland Fire Chief Pantalone.
08.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Tim Ryan (OH-13) and U.S. Senator Sherrod Brown today urged U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) Secretary Alex Acosta to approve the National Dislocated Worker Grant application submitted by the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services. Ryan and Brown said that, in the wake of the significant layoffs at the GM plant in Lordstown over the last two years, support is greatly needed for the workers and families in Northeast Ohio. Ryan and Brown encouraged the State of Ohio to apply for the grant and are now urging DOL to approve the application quickly and get funds to Lordstown as soon as possible. “GM’s announcement that it would lay off the second shift at the Lordstown plant comes just over a year after GM laid off the third shift, or 1,200 workers, at the same facility. GM is the primary employer in the region, and the elimination of nearly 3,000 jobs at the plant over the last two years will have significant economic consequences for the northeast region of Ohio,” Ryan and Brown wrote in their letter to Acosta. “A National Dislocated Worker Grant will be critical to ensuring the Lordstown community and northeast Ohio have the resources they need to help the affected workers get the workforce training and job placement services they need to find new jobs.” National Dislocated Worker Grants (DWGs) are discretionary grants awarded by the Secretary of Labor to provide resources to states and other eligible applicants in response to large, unexpected layoff events causing significant job losses. This funding is intended to temporarily expand capacity to serve dislocated workers, including military service members, and meet the increased demand for employment and training services, with a purpose to reemploy laid off workers and enhance their employability and earnings. A copy of the letter can be found below and here: Dear Secretary Acosta: We write in support the National Dislocated Worker Grant application submitted by the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services in the wake of the recently announced layoff of 1,500 workers at the GM plant in Lordstown, Ohio. We urge you to process this application expeditiously. GM’s announcement that it would lay off the second shift at the Lordstown plant comes just over a year after GM laid off the third shift, or 1,200 workers, at the same facility. GM is the primary employer in the region, and the elimination of nearly 3,000 jobs at the plant over the last two years will have significant economic consequences for the northeast region of Ohio. A National Dislocated Worker Grant will be critical to ensuring the Lordstown community and northeast Ohio have the resources they need to help the affected workers get the workforce training and job placement services they need to find new jobs. We urge you to consider Ohio’s application for these funds as quickly as possible so that the workers and the community can begin the process of recovering from these layoffs. Sincerely, Congressman Tim Ryan Senator Sherrod Brown
08.21.2018	Lordstown, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) applauded the passage of today’s referendum vote in which Village of Lordstown residents voted in favor of rezoning the property where TJX will build its 1.2 million square foot distribution center. “This is a huge victory for Lordstown, our community, and our economy. Lordstown residents have spoken, and they want TJX in the Mahoning Valley,” said Congressman Ryan. “Over the past year, I have been actively engaged in this project and have grown to appreciate the CEO and real estate management team at TJX - they are the ultimate professionals. Countless hours were spent courting this phenomenal project, and I want to thank the local economic development staff and elected officials for their herculean efforts. Despite the minor setbacks, I remained focused on doing what was necessary to ensure that this facility, with its thousands of jobs and millions of dollars in payroll and revenue, comes to our region. Thank you Lordstown!”
08.21.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) made the following state regarding the Trump Administration’s plan to roll back the Clean Power Plan: “The Clean Power Plan was an important step for our nation to combat climate change. It would have cut carbon emissions by one-third by 2030 and prevented over 3,000 environment-related premature deaths each year. This decision by the Trump Administration is a huge setback for our environment and puts the health of every America in danger. It is yet another example of this President’s refusal to acknowledge climate change and take the necessary steps to address it,” said Congressman Ryan. “We should be protecting our future generations, not polluting them. By pulling out of the Paris Climate Deal, weakening fuel economy standards, and now rolling back the Clean Power Plan, this Administration is abandoning our commitment to protecting the environment and diminishing our global standing in the world. Today’s decision continues a long line of misguided actions by President Trump that are toxic to our planet and to the American people.”
08.17.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) urged the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to extend benefits to Navy veterans exposed to dioxin (also known as Agent Orange). Ryan penned a letter to VA Under Secretary of Benefits Paul Lawrence urging him to reconsider his opposition to Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act (HR 299). The bill would provide benefits to 90,000 Blue Water Navy veterans who were exposed to dioxin during the Vietnam War. During a Senate Veterans Affairs Committee hearing on Wednesday, August 1, 2018, Under Secretary Lawrence urged Senators to vote against the bill, citing the lack of scientific evidence that exposure occurred. Several studies have proven otherwise. The House unanimously passed the bill in June with a vote of 382-0. “Our veterans have put their lives on the line in defense for our freedoms and security. As a nation, we can honor their service and sacrifice by holding up our end of the bargain and providing them the care they have earned. The Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act is a chance to show them our thanks,” said Congressman Ryan. “I’m extremely disappointed that Under Secretary Lawrence would oppose this bill. Contrary to his belief, there is clear evidence that the Blue Water Navy veterans were exposed to dioxin. Over 90,0000 veterans are looking to us for help. I urge Under Secretary Lawrence to reconsider his position.” A full copy of the letter can be found here and below: August 15, 2018 Honorable Paul Lawrence Under Secretary for Benefits Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20420 Dear Under Secretary Lawrence: I was disappointed to learn that you testified in opposition to the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act (HR 299) during the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee hearing on August 1, 2018. As you know, the House of Representatives passed this legislation with a unanimous vote of 382-0. Any bill that garners that type of support in our current partisan political environment deserves to become a law. I ask that you reconsider your opinion on this legislation for the sake of the 90,000 veterans who would benefit from this bill. The argument that there is not enough scientific evidence of exposure for Blue Water Navy veterans is not valid. Currently, any ground-force veteran who served anywhere in Vietnam is presumed to have been exposed to dioxin. A test is not required to calculate the level of exposure based on where the veteran served in Vietnam. These guidelines should be applied to the Blue Water Navy veterans who were exposed to the same chemicals. Although it was recommended that ships went at least 12 miles offshore to take on water, that was not a requirement, and the 2011 Institute of Medicine study found that this guidance was routinely ignored. The same distillation system on the ship that was used to make water for the boilers was used for potable water. So, when this system took on contaminated water, sailors were exposed to dioxin. Additionally, another study showed that dioxin has been found in seafood 150 nautical miles from shore. Therefore, a sailor who did not have his “boots on the ground” may have been exposed to a higher concentration of dioxin than a soldier who was in the central highlands of Vietnam. For decades our Blue Water Navy Vietnam veterans have been denied the benefits that they have clearly earned. They deserve better. This legislation rectifies the damage our government has done to these veterans who sacrificed much in the service of our country. Your support in the Department of Veterans Affairs will be essential to the success of this bill. I ask that you continue to work closely with the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee to provide these critical benefits to our country’s Blue Water Navy Vietnam veterans. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
08.16.2018	Youngstown, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) and Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Rob Portman (R-OH) today awarded the Youngstown Business Incubator a $185,000 award from the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC). The funding will go toward YBI’s Tech Block Building No.5 for 3-D printing software and equipment. “Youngstown Business Incubator has helped many businesses in Northeastern Ohio get their start. It cannot be understated the role YBI plays in growing advanced manufacturing and facilitating innovation in the Mahoning Valley,” said Congressman Ryan. “These funds from ARC not only furthers YBI’s mission, but contributes to the vision and success of many entrepreneurs and businesses in Ohio. Our continued support for public-private partnerships makes the American dream a reality for many Americans and increases our community’s economic prosperity.” “The Mahoning Valley is an epicenter for Ohio manufacturing,” said Senator Brown. “This investment to the Youngstown Business Incubator will give startup manufacturers in the area the leading edge they need to grow their businesses and create jobs in the area.” “This is exciting news for the Youngstown Business Incubator, an organization that plays a pivotal role in advancing innovation in Northeast Ohio,” said Senator Portman. “These funds will contribute to manufacturing’s strength in the Mahoning Valley, ultimately providing the opportunity for continued economic growth and job creation.” “The Mahoning Valley is quickly becoming recognized as a world leader in advanced manufacturing technologies. The ARC has been a tremendous partner to both YBI and YSU in helping to make that vision a reality,” said Jim Tressel, Youngstown State University President. “Today’s announcement will help the Youngstown Business Incubator make the latest technology, equipment, and technical assistance available to Ohio’s smaller advanced manufacturing businesses,” said Tim Thomas, Federal Co-Chair of the Appalachian Regional Commission. “This, in turn, keeps the Region’s manufacturing sector competitive and strong.” “The ARC has been a critical partner in the region’s transformation to an advanced manufacturing community. YBI, and its partners at YSU and TBEIC are grateful for the support that we’ve received from both the Appalachian Regional Commission and the Governor’s Office of Appalachia, as well as Eastgate Regional Council of Governments, who administer the program locally,” said Barb Ewing, Youngstown Business Incubator Chief Executive Officer. “Entrepreneurs are the life blood of the Mahoning Valley and The Appalachian Regional Commission’s investments are proof positive that the time is now, to innovate and grow,” said Rick Stockburger, Tech Belt Energy Innovation Center (TBEIC) Vice President and Chief Operations Officer.
08.15.2018	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) made the following statement in response to Northside Regional Medical Center’s announced intention to close on September 20, 2018. “I am deeply disappointed by today’s announcement. The doctors, nurses, and employees at Northside Regional Medical Center are some of the hardest working and most talented people in their fields. I will be working day in and day out to ensure that they get the resources and assistance they need. I have been in direct contact with officials at Northside, Mercy Health, and other area hospitals and medical centers to ensure that there is no lapse in coverage for our community. I stand ready to assist any those displaced or impacted by today’s announcement.”
08.14.2018	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) today announced a $2,179,000 loan and $1,874,000 grant from the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to improve Mahoning County’s water infrastructure. The USDA is providing the funding through the Water and Waste Disposal Loan and Grant program. “Clean drinking water is essential to maintaining a healthy lifestyle. We must remain committed to investing and improving our water infrastructures. We are the richest country in the world, every family in the United States deserves access to clean water,” said Congressman Ryan. “This crucial funding for the Mahoning County will improve the quality of water and life for 3,759 Northeast Ohioans. I’m proud to continue fighting for these types of federal investment and advocating for stronger water infrastructures.” According to the USDA, this Rural Development investment will be used for the phased extension of water lines to the Canyon Park, Scott Cliff and Ellsworth Road areas of the Lake Milton region of Mahoning County. The 150 homes in the project area receive water from private individual water systems that do not provide an adequate source of quality water. In addition to a new water source for the area, these lines will improve water delivery to 1,400 households connected to the water system. Once completed, the 3,759 residents will have an adequate and safe source of drinking water. The project also will accommodate future economic growth for the Lake Milton area.
08.02.2018	Youngstown, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) today condemned the Trump Administration’s decision to weaken fuel economy standards (CAFE Standards). “The Trump Administration’s move to weaken fuel economy standards in the United States proves once more that he cares nothing for preserving and protecting our environment for our kids and grandkids, or for supporting the market for smaller, fuel efficient cars like the Chevy Cruze. This reckless decision hinders our ability to combat global climate change, while simultaneously undercutting a major pillar of Northeast Ohio’s economy: GM Lordstown,” said Congressman Ryan. ###
08.02.2018	McDonald, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) announced two grant awards totaling $188,743 to the McDonald Volunteer Fire Department. This funding comes in the form of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The first grant totaling $44,457 will be used for operations and safety, while the second grant totaling $144,286 will go toward vehicle acquisition. “Our first responders put their lives on the line every single day to protect our communities. Federal investments are critical to our first responders, and the current fires in California underscore the importance of properly funding our fire departments. As a result, I always offer my support for these types of grants,” said Congressman Ryan. “The money from these grants will help provide the necessary resources to equip and train our firefighters so they can meet the needs of the McDonald Volunteer Fire Department and our neighborhoods. I congratulate Fire Chief Todd Stitt for his hard work in obtaining these grants.” “The McDonald Volunteer Fire Department is extremely pleased to receive these grants which will help purchase much-needed equipment. With local resources limited and cuts in state funding, these grants will help the McDonald Volunteer Fire Department continue to serve its residents to the best of our ability. I would like to thank all those who assisted us in obtaining these grants. These grants will allow our department to upgrade our EMS and fire equipment to the most current standards. The protection and safety of our citizens, firefighters, and EMS personnel is our utmost priority,” said Fire Chief Todd Stitt. The purpose of the AFG Program is to award grants to fire departments, nonaffiliated EMS organizations, and state fire training academies to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel. Since 2001, the AFG Program has helped first-responder organizations obtain much-needed emergency response equipment, personal protective equipment, as well as firefighting and emergency vehicles, and training.
07.27.2018	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) attended the opening ceremony for the new $7.3 million, state of the art, Combat Arms Training Management Firing Range facility at Youngstown Air Reserve Station. The firing range will provide new opportunities in training and mission capabilities for local law enforcement partner agencies and the 910th Security Forces Squadron, respectively. Congressman Ryan helped secure these funds through his role on the House Appropriations Committee in Fiscal Year 2015. “Every day, the men and women stationed at YARS put their lives on the line for our safety, and it is our job to give them the resources they need to succeed,” said Congressman Ryan. “The state of the art Combat Arms Training Management Firing Range facility will ensure our service men and women have the best training facility necessary to remain combat-ready and complete their missions safely. I’m proud to have used my position on the House Appropriations Committee to secure the funds for this facility.” Funding: Since 2003, Congressman Ryan has secured over $28.6 million for the Youngstown Air Reserve Station through his seat on the House Appropriations Committee. Those projects include: purchase of upgraded aerial spray equipment design and construction of new base lodging King-Graves road improvements surrounding the base (specifically for the benefit of the base) indoor firing range security gate upgrades Congressman Ryan used his seat on the House Appropriations Committee seat to secure $30 million for a joint project between Air Force Research Lab, America Makes, Youngstown State University, and YARS to produce 3D printed parts for the U.S. Air Force. In 2003, Congressman Ryan was instrumental in helping to setup and coordinate Operation: Save Our Airbase Reservists (SOAR) which kept YARS off the federal Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) list. Policy: Passed legislation through the Military Construction/VA Subcommittee to expedite funding for YARS security gate Inserted language in Defense Appropriations bill that prioritizes specialty missions for upgraded planes Congressman Ryan’s Defense Appropriations Subcommittee passed the largest pay raise for service members in nine years (2.6% increase)
07.26.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) today introduced a sweeping economic bill aimed at resolving prominent challenges to American labor and job markets. The Working on Rewarding and Keeping Employees Resilient (WORKER) Act focuses on workforce development and supporting the American worker by addressing jobs, wage stagnation, and continued layoffs as a result of outsourcing and automation. Congressman Ryan also released a comprehensive report titled Putting America Back To Work, which outlines of some of the twenty-first century’s greatest challenges towards our changing economy. “The new American economy does not exist in the past, but in the future. Our economy continues to change, but many of our friends, neighbors, and family members continue to grapple with a lack of jobs, wage stagnation, or continued layoffs. While the economy is humming along nicely for the top wage-earners in our society, it is broken for just about everyone else. The system no longer works for the American worker. We need bold action. My WORKER Act is just that. The bill addresses the rise of automation and technological advancements beginning with the education of our students, sustaining them with resources for continuous training and job security, and increasing investment in distressed communities to create jobs,” said Congressman Ryan. “For being the wealthiest nation on earth, too many Americans are struggling with the realities of everyday life—paying their bills, caring for their family, putting food on the table, and keeping a roof over their head. The future of our economy, and of the American Dream, rests on our ability to alleviate this struggle by innovating and creating new, good-paying jobs where they are needed most. The WORKER Act will do just that.” Representatives Ro Khanna (CA-17), Linda Sanchez (CA-38), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Yvette Clarke (NY-9), Gwen Moore (WI-4), and Colleen Hanabusa (HI-1) were original cosponsors of the legislation, which was also endorsed by the National Skills Coalition, United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, and the NAACP. “We recognize that the WORKER Act will advance the American economy for the betterment of all American people regardless of demographic or political affiliation. This bill takes important steps towards providing distressed communities, underrepresented minorities, women, and all American workers with the skills and opportunities necessary to thrive in the modern economy,” United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce Interim President & CEO, Fernand Fernandez. “More than half of all jobs are middle-skill, but far fewer workers are trained at this level. The WORKER Act would help workers develop the skills business need and provides support for services like child care, transportation and pre-apprenticeship programs that can be crucial to a diverse pipeline of workers with access to and success in middle-skill jobs,” Katie Spiker, Senior Federal Policy Analyst, National Skills Coalition. The WORKER Act takes bold action to empower the American workforce and their families by making provisions for some of the following: Gives our children the skills they need to succeed in the 21st Century by creating grant programs to support engineering and engineering technology education programs in elementary and secondary schools. It also expands maker education and makerspaces in schools. Prioritizes and supports programs that increase the participation of women and underrepresented minorities in STEM occupations. Expands apprenticeships by promoting public-private partnerships to encourage industry growth, competitiveness and collaboration to improve worker training, retention and advancement in targeted infrastructure clusters. Incentivizes reemployment by creating a reemployment bonus for individuals currently receiving unemployment benefits. Eases the wage transition for older workers by creating wage insurance for individuals 50 and over. And in economically distressed communities for individuals 45 and over. Creates a training voucher for $8,000 to ensure every American can attend a short-term training program to receive the skills necessary to succeed. Makes finding a job easier for families who are struggling with everyday challenges like transportation and child care by providing a stipend for income support services. Establishes a new Department within the Department of Commerce with the mission of promoting, establishing, and strengthening venture capital investment in distressed communities, including expenses of grants, contracts, and other agreements with public or private entities. Designates that the Department of Commerce and the Secretary of Commerce should know be known as the Department of Innovation and Investment and Secretary of Innovation and Investment. You may also read the full report, Putting America Back To Work, here.
07.25.2018	Washington, DC — Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) today announced his support for three sweeping pieces of legislation that would make a college education tuition-free and debt-free. Those bills are the College For All Act, the Debt-Free College Partnerships Act, and the Aim Higher Act. “No matter if it’s a two year degree, a four year degree, or a technical certificate program, the success of the United States relies on our citizens having access to post-high school training and education. Education is critical to personal flourishing as well as keeping the American workforce competitive in an increasingly globalized economy,” said Rep. Ryan. “College should not only be for the privileged few. It is a benefit for all, and must be seen that way. No individual or family should be burdened with crushing debt that will stifle opportunity when the whole point of attending college is to grow through new opportunities. All three of these bills help families get ahead by making an investment in them and their future. We’re all in this together.” Congressman Ryan signed on as cosponsor of the following three bills this week: The College for All Act Eliminates tuition and fees at public four-year colleges and universities for those making up to $125,000 and makes community college tuition- and fee-free for all Cuts Student loan interest rates in half Allows Americans to re-finance student loans at the lowest possible interest rates Prevents the federal government from profiting off of the student loan programs Paid for by a tax on Wall Street speculation Provides funding to eliminate equity gaps in higher education attainment The Debt-Free College Partnerships Act Creates a voluntary state-federal partnership to increase investment in public higher education and enable students to attend public college debt-free Under the partnership, states would receive an award from the federal government that matches states’ higher education appropriations States that participate would commit to providing need-based grants to cover students’ cost of attendance, with a goal of achieving debt-free college for all in-state students within five years of joining the partnership States are allowed to spend up to 10% of their partnership award to grow the capacity of their public institutions, support degree completion programs, and make other investments in higher education. The Aim Higher Act Makes college more affordable by investing in federal student aid and helps states make public college tuition more affordable in the future by incentivizing states to reinvest in higher education Cracks down on predatory for-profit institutions that target students and veterans with expensive, low-quality programs, Protects and expands the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program, which is eliminated in the GOP PROSPER Act, and makes student loans simpler and easier to repay Provides students the tools they need to graduate on time with a quality degree Invests in teachers and strengthens training for teachers and school leaders to improve the quality of our schools
07.24.2018	Youngstown, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) announces $185,000 in federal funding for the Youngstown Business Incubator (YBI) from the Appalachian Regional Commission. The funding will go toward YBI’s Tech Block Building No.5 for 3-D printing software and equipment. “The Youngstown Business Incubator continues to be a national leader and resource in innovation and ingenuity in advanced manufacturing,” said Congressman Ryan. “This well-deserved award will help accelerate YBI’s mission to facilitate development and growth of entrepreneurs, businesses, and jobs in Northeast Ohio.”
07.20.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) today announced his support for legalizing marijuana. Congressman Ryan is a cosponsor of H.R. 4815, the Marijuana Justice Act of 2018. The Marijuana Justice Act amends the Controlled Substances Act to remove marijuana from schedule I; and eliminates criminal penalties for possession and consumption of marijuana. “We have ignored the social and economic toll of our marijuana laws for too long. I believe no person should be sentenced to a lifetime of hardship because of a marijuana arrest. It is morally wrong, economically nonsensical, and an unnecessary strain on our already strained law enforcement officials. Even more unjust is that the burden of these low-level drug charges fall on minority communities, hindering their God-given right to thrive and build a brighter future for themselves and their families. I am proud to stand on the side of justice by cosponsoring legislation to begin righting the wrongs of decades of misinformed drug policy and make marijuana legal in all 50 states,” said Congressman Ryan. The bill also prohibits and reduces certain federal funds for a state without a statute legalizing marijuana, if the Bureau of Justice Assistance determines that such a state has a disproportionate arrest rate or disproportionate incarceration rate for marijuana offenses, and directs federal courts to expunge convictions for marijuana use or possession. Finally, it establishes the Community Reinvestment Fund. This fund may be used by the Department of Housing and Urban Development to establish a grant program to reinvest in communities most affected by the war on drugs. Congressman Ryan laid out his position in an Op-Ed published on CNN. Full text can also be found below: By Tim Ryan Editor’s Note: Tim Ryan, a Democrat, is the US Representative for Ohio’s 13th congressional district. The views expressed are his own. View more opinion articles on CNN. The year Donald Trump was elected president, more Americans were arrested for marijuana possession than all violent crimes combined. Moreover, the ACLU found that even though African Americans use marijuana at similar rates to white Americans, they are almost four times more likely to be arrested for marijuana possession. I have seen this firsthand in my state and in my district. According to the Sentencing Project, Ohio has the 15th highest incarceration rate in the United States. This translates to over 70,000 Ohioans behind bars – nationally one in four prisoners are behind bars for low-level drug offenses. When they finally leave prison -- after years removed from employment, education and family -- their chances of having a productive life are slim. As co-chair of the House Addiction, Treatment, and Recovery Caucus, I’ve been hesitant to support legalizing marijuana in the past. But after meeting with countless Ohio families and youth whose lives have been irreparably harmed by a marijuana arrest, I find the social and economic injustices of our marijuana policy too big to ignore. I firmly believe no person should be sentenced to a lifetime of hardship because of a marijuana arrest. It is morally wrong and economically nonsensical. That is why I am calling for an end to marijuana being used as an excuse to lock up our fellow Americans. Marijuana should be legal in all 50 states. Across the country, nine states and the District of Columbia have passed laws legalizing marijuana. Voters in Michigan and Oklahoma will be voting on marijuana initiatives this November, and efforts are underway in Missouri, Arizona, Nebraska and Utah to get legalization initiatives on the ballot. While I support these states for leading by example, this is an issue that affects every corner of our nation. You should not be able to legally buy a product in one state, just to be arrested for the very same act in another. Studies have shown that marijuana legalization could save $7.7 billion in averted enforcement costs and add $6 billion in additional tax revenue -- a $13.7 billion net savings. Not to mention the reported 782,000 jobs it could create on day one. Think of what our country could do with that money: rebuild our highways, bridges, and railroads; provide our communities with the resources they need to respond effectively to substance abuse and the opioid epidemic; and create jobs. We need to invest in a country that works for all Americans. We need every citizen working to keep America moving forward. Instead, we are keeping one in five Americans off the economic playing field -- the majority of them people of color. Incarcerating young men and women, instead of educating and empowering them, is how our country gets left behind on the world stage. Congress can change this by passing the Marijuana Justice Act. This legislation would remove marijuana’s designation as a Schedule 1 drug -- those classified as having no accepted medical use and a high potential for abuse. It would also eliminate all criminal penalties for an individual who imports, exports, manufacturers, distributes, or processes with intent to distribute marijuana. To create economic opportunity in communities devastated by mass incarceration, the bill creates a $500 million community reinvestment fund to provide job training for the nascent legal cannabis industry. The War on Drugs failed the American people. It is time for us to take the necessary steps to right our nation’s wrongs. We cannot afford to leave people behind and money on the table. If we are truly a nation that believes in second chances, our federal marijuana laws must change. America is speaking. Congress must act.
07.18.2018	Alliance, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) announced a grant award of $41,250 to the Alliance Fire Department. This funding comes from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). “There are few things more important than supporting services that help protect our community, and the first responders who make that possible. Federal investments are critical to our first responders, and I always offer my support for these types of grants,” said Congressman Ryan. “For 125 years, the men and women of the Alliance Fire Department have put their lives on the line every single day. The least we can do to show our gratitude is to ensure they have the proper equipment, infrastructure, and training to stay safe and do their jobs well. I congratulate Fire Chief Jason Hunt for his hard work in obtaining this grant. “We are pleased to have the continued support of Congressman Ryan in our pursuit of various grant opportunities including the Assistance to Firefighters Grant. The diesel exhaust elimination system we were awarded, will make the working environment of our firefighters a safer and healthier place. It represents a step forward in lowering carcinogenic exposures while in the fire station,” said Fire Chief Jason Hunt. The purpose of the AFG Program is to award grants to fire departments, nonaffiliated EMS organizations, and state fire training academies to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel. Since 2001, the AFG Program has helped first-responder organizations obtain much-needed emergency response equipment, personal protective equipment, as well as firefighting and emergency vehicles, and training.
07.16.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) released this statement in response to President Trump’s joint press conference with Russian President Vladimir Putin. “President Trump’s action at a joint press conference with Russian President Vladimir Putin was a disgraceful setback to the United States’ global leadership; an insult to those serving in our intelligence agencies; and a disheartening betrayal of every servicemember defending the U.S. government’s interests against Russian government hostility. President Trump’s appeasement of Putin with denials of Russia’s continued cyberattacks on our nation is pathetic and weak—especially coming just hours after referring to the European Union as a great ‘foe,’ and days after 12 Russians were indicted as part of special counsel Mueller’s investigation. “Today was truly a low point in the history of American foreign policy. Every American, regardless of political stripes, should be shaken by what we witnessed today in Helsinki. President Trump must be rebuked for deliberately undermining—for his own craven political purposes – nearly a century of western cooperation at the urging of an aggressive foreign adversary who does not share our values of personal and political freedom. Our country’s official National Security Strategy accuses Russia of being a ‘competitor’ intent on ‘eroding American security and prosperity’. In normal circumstances, most Americans would expect the U.S. President to stand up for U.S. law enforcement and intelligence community, the U.S. military, and our own national sovereignty against such an adversary. Clearly, this President disagrees.”
07.12.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) released the following statement regarding rising gas prices. A recent analysis found that the price of U.S. crude oil increased nearly 7 percent and rose above $75 a barrel for the first time since November 2014. According to AAA, average national gas prices rose from $2.257, from this time last year, to $2.884 per gallon. This follows President Trump’s decision to leave the Iran nuclear deal and the State Department announcing a policy to cut all Iranian crude exports. “Rising gas prices are taking a toll on Americans not only in Ohio, but all across the nation. As a result of President Trump destabilizing the globe, hardworking American families are seeing prices jump on a weekly basis. It’s unacceptable. Energy analysts have pointed to the President’s misguided move of pulling out of the Iran deal as a cause of the increases. The President’s reckless decisions are coming at the expense of Americans’ wallets. He talks about putting America first, but his actions don’t seem to mirror that. The minuscule tax benefits families are receiving from the GOP’s disastrous tax sham are now being spent on these skyrocketing prices. It’s time the President stop blaming others for the mess he’s created and step up to fixing our nation’s problems,” said Congressman Ryan.
07.11.2018	Warren, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) announced a grant award of $69,170 to the Warren Fire Department. This funding comes in the form of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). “When many of us are running away from a fire, our firefighters are bravely going toward it. Our first responders are critical to our community as they put their lives on the line every day to ensure our safety,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “The funding from this grant will help provide the necessary resources to equip and train our firefighters so they can meet the needs of their department and our neighborhood. I congratulate Fire Chief Ken Nussle for his hard work in obtaining this grant.” “The Warren City Fire Department is pleased to receive this health and wellness grant. Maintaining good fitness can help firefighters cut down on neck, back and shoulder injuries that routinely occur on the fire ground. This will also reduce Workman’s Compensation rate and time lost to injuries. The Warren City Fire Department will be much more able to protect the lives and properties of our citizens with healthier and more physically fit firefighters,” said Fire Chief Ken Nussle. The purpose of the AFG Program is to award grants to fire departments, nonaffiliated EMS organizations, and state fire training academies to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel. Since 2001, the AFG Program has helped first-responder organizations obtain much-needed emergency response equipment, personal protective equipment, as well as firefighting and emergency vehicles, and training.
07.10.2018	Washington , DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) made the following statement following the successful vote in the House to award the Congressional Gold Medal to baseball legend Larry Doby: “I’m proud the House voted to award the Congressional Gold Medal to National Baseball Hall of Famer Larry Doby. Making his debut with the Cleveland Indians, Doby was the first African American in the American League and the second in Major League Baseball history. He stood above the racism, segregation, and harassment on and off the field by carrying himself with dignity and grace. Doby not only was an exceptional baseball player, but an extraordinary American by serving in the United States Navy during World War II. His legacy serves as an inspiration to baseball players and communities of colors all across the United States. This World Series Champion and seven-time All-Star was a great American ballplayer, breaking records and barriers one home run at a time that helped shaped the world of Major League Baseball and American Civil rights,” said Congressman Ryan.
07.09.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released this statement following President Trump’s nomination of Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court. “Brett Kavanaugh's nomination has reinforced what we already knew: President Trump wants a Supreme Court willing to fight for corporations’ rights as a ‘person,’ but not for the rights of workers to collectively bargain and earn a living wage. He wants a court that will fight to uphold Citizens United and allow unlimited money in our political system, but not for a loving same-sex couple to join together in marriage. And especially so this time, he wants a court that will toss aside established precedent and take away a women’s right to her own healthcare and reproductive decisions. Mitch McConnell should follow his own precedent and forgo any vote on a replacement until after the American people have had their voices heard in the midterms,” said Congressman Ryan.
07.05.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to President Trump’s Announcement that scandal-plagued EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt is resigning. “It’s about time,” said Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH). ###
07.05.2018	Grand Rapids, Michigan -- On Thursday, July 5, Representatives Tim Ryan (OH-13), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Bill Huizenga (MI-2) and Dan Kildee (MI-5) met with Bethany Christian Services to discuss care for unaccompanied and separated children and learn more about the organization’s plan to reunify children with their families. The Members received a tour of the facility. “What I saw today brought home all the conversations that have been had about this issue so far. I wish every American could see these kids and hear their stories. It’s gut-wrenching. Children are traveling by themselves or with their loved ones to avoid violence and danger in their country, and they fled to the United States to find safety and security. They are doing what any responsible parent would do. But when they arrive at our border, the Trump Administration turns its back on our values and rips children away from their parents – with zero plan to bring them back together. This is state sponsored abuse. “From its founding, America has always been a country of immigrants. Men, women, and children came to our shores to avoid war and famine, economic scarcity, and religious persecution. They came from every corner of the world, with different backgrounds, skills, and challenges. Woven together, these differences helped strengthen our nation and make it what it is today. We should not turn our backs on the history and values that made us who we are,” said Congressman Ryan
07.03.2018	Akron, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) applauded the Ohio EPA Director and the U.S. EPA Great Lakes National Program Manager for signing the Gorge Dam Project Agreement. The Agreement creates a plan for contaminated sediment management and habitat restoration for the Gorge Dam on the Cuyahoga River. Ryan advocated for increased funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) which was the source of funding for the $845,000 used for the project. After President Trump tried to zero-out the GLRI program, Ryan joined with others in the Ohio Delegation to ensure the GLRI received funding. Ryan also voted in favor of in the Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus Appropriations Act which contained the GLRI funding. Additional project match funds are provided by the Ohio Department of Natural Resources. The City of Akron is the local sponsor for the state matching funds. “The Cuyahoga River is one of Northeast Ohio’s most important landmarks and water resources. The signing of the Gorge Dam Project Agreement is another step forward in restoring the river and improving the water quality in Ohio,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “I look forward to more state, local, and federal government partnerships to continue keeping our environment safe and healthy, not only for the wildlife in and around the river, but for Ohio residents and visitors as well.” “This project is a critical piece in restoring the Cuyahoga River, an important resource to Northeast Ohio, to a more natural state. This vital work is being done in conjunction with other projects that focus on the City of Akron’s long-term commitment to improve water quality for the region,” said Akron Mayor Dan Horrigan. The Gorge Dam was constructed on the Cuyahoga River in 1913, and produced hydroelectric power until 1958. The dam pool was subsequently used until 1992 as a source for cooling water for a local coal-fired power plant. The dam and its pool have not been used for power generation purposes for the past 23 years. The structure acts as an impairment to aquatic species along the middle and lower segments of the Cuyahoga River, and Ohio EPA has proposed it be removed to improve water quality. This project agreement is the second phase of a much larger effort to remove the Gorge Dam, located on the Cuyahoga River in the cities of Akron and Cuyahoga Falls. Ohio EPA completed the first phase in 2015, which was a cost estimate for the removal and management of sediment and removal of the dam. The third phase will involve actual sediment removal and management with the fourth phase involving removal of the dam. Sediment removal and dam removal will each need their own individual project agreements, a process which will hopefully continue over the next several years.
06.28.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) voted in support of the Fiscal Year 2019 Defense Appropriations Act, a bill that supports our warfighters, restores military readiness, and bolsters our Armed Forces. The bill still must pass the Senate and be signed by the President before taking effect. Ryan is a member of the Defense Appropriations Committee. “I am proud that this bill provides the largest pay raise in nine years for our troops and increases funding for military readiness,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Our country is in a global competition with China and Russia, and this bill boosts the needed funding for our military to help us keep our position as a leader on the world stage. It also prepares and modernizes our Armed Forces for the future of warfare by properly funding research and development. I am pleased that this bill provides the necessary funding to support the Soldiers, Sailors, Marines, and Airmen who work at Camp Ravenna and Youngstown Air Reserve Station on a daily basis.” Overall, the bill includes a 2.6% increase in pay for our troops; funding above the request for defense related medical research; a boost in base funding for our military by $17.1 billion above FY18 levels; and $145.7 billion for equipment procurement. Several spending provisions in the bill were inserted at the direction of Congressman Ryan: $5 million increase in counter-drone laser weapon research $10 million increase for additive manufacturing supply chain development $5 million increase for improvement of life cycle maintenance of military aircraft brakes $10 million increase for competitively awarded technology transition $9 million increase for new military data transmission research and development
06.27.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to Justice Kennedy’s retirement from the Supreme Court effective July 31st. “Elections have consequences. In the last few years we’ve seen an unparalleled unraveling of reproductive rights, voting rights, and workers’ rights alongside a grotesque influx of dark money into our political system thanks to the Supreme Court. If President Trump is able to install another ultra-conservative ideologue to the court, we can only expect it to get worse. Mitch McConnell should follow his own precedent and forgo any vote on a replacement until after the American people have had their voices heard in the midterms,” said Congressman Ryan.
06.27.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to the United States Supreme Court’s decision in Janus v. AFSCME, a case with immense repercussions for public-sector unions. "Labor unions built this country. We have unions to thank for safe, clean work environments, the 40-hour work week, and the strongest middle class the world has ever seen. We need to be supporting and growing unions to fight for a prosperous life for all, not undercutting them. This Supreme Court decision will eviscerate public-sector labor unions, and hurt the hardworking men and women who depend on them and their collective bargaining rights for their quality of life. I had hoped the Supreme Court would have ruled to protect America’s workers, and affirm that fair-share fees are critical to maintain the bargaining strength of labor unions representing public servants and employees. I am deeply disappointed that was not the case. This decision will gut public-sector unions, and is yet another blow to labor generally in the Trump age,” said Congressman Ryan. “While the courts have failed in this regard, I am as committed as ever to fighting every day I am in Congress to protect workers, empower unions, and support the families that have made this country great.”
06.26.2018	Washington, DC - Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) released the following statement following today’s 5-4 Supreme Court ruling upholding President Trump’s Muslim Ban: “The Supreme Court’s decision is a tragedy for the men, women, and children who are fleeing persecution in their countries and only further tarnishes our global reputation. President Trump’s Muslim ban is yet another example of this Administration’s fixation of dividing communities and separating families. Banning immigrants and refugees is a shameful departure from the values that have always made our nation a beacon of hope, compassion, and freedom around the world.”
06.26.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) issued the following statement regarding today’s 5-4 Supreme Court ruling in NIFLA v Becerra striking down a California law requiring so- called “crisis pregnancy centers” to provide information about their anti-abortion mission: “I’m outraged that today’s SCOTUS ruling undermines women’s health care. There’s over 180 fake women’s health centers in Ohio, and over 2,700 across all 50 states. Each of these centers impact thousands of women at vulnerable moments in their lives and denies them essential medical information, compassion, and support. The California law was passed to make sure anyone who claims they provide medical care is held to a high standard of honesty and professionalism, so women receive accurate information about their full range of reproductive health care options. Women deserve to be able to make decisions about their own lives, bodies and futures, and today’s SCOTUS decision undercuts that sacred right,” said Congressman Ryan.
06.25.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) issued the following statement regarding GM’s announcement to build its Chevy Blazer in Mexico. He also urged General Motors CEO Mary Barra to give an explanation for this decision: “So much for the Republican tax giveaway being an incentive for corporations to invest in America. I’m extremely disappointed in GM’s decision to build the Chevy Blazer in Mexico. This decision is an insult to hard-working families all across the country. Thousands of GM workers in America—including the second and third shifts at Lordstown—who have been permanently laid off are hearing the news that GM is sending jobs to Mexico instead of putting people back to work here. It’s outrageous,” said Congressman Ryan. “I urge GM to reverse their decision and bring the production of Chevy Blazer to the United States.” Read the full letter below or online here: June 25, 2018 Mary T. Barra Chief Executive Officer General Motors Company 300 Renaissance Center Detroit, MI 48243 Re: General Motors Chevrolet Blazer Announcement Dear Ms. Barra, As a Member of Congress who voted during the Great Recession to provide economic aid to embattled domestic automakers, I am very disappointed at the recent announcement by General Motors (GM) to manufacture the Chevy Blazer at the Ramos Arizpe, Mexico plant. This decision is an insult to hard-working families all across the country. Thousands of GM workers in America—including the second and third shifts at Lordstown—who have been permanently laid off are hearing the news that GM is sending jobs to Mexico instead of putting people back to work here. General Motors had pledged to invest more than $1 billion in domestic factories and create 7,000 new jobs, which makes today’s announcement more troubling, especially in conjunction with the second shift at Lordstown plant officially ending this past weekend. The men and women of our community walked out of the plant for the last time with anxiety and concern for the future, and woke up recently to learn that GM is creating jobs in Mexico. In response to the elimination of the second shift, your statement said that “we’re working hard to get additional business for the complex.” This morning’s announcement proves that while there is plenty of investment in the 15,000 production workers in Mexico – and their sub-par wages of less than $3 per hour—more can and should be done by GM to position the Lordstown plant for next 20 years. As GM employees around the country are being laid off, I am requesting an explanation for this decision and urging GM to reconsider and bring the jobs back to the United States. The men and women of my district are ready to go back to work, and I stand ready to support GM in promoting domestic job creation. I appreciate your attention to this matter, and I look forward to your response outlining the reasons behind this decision. Should you have any questions or concerns, please don’t hesitate to contact me or my staff anytime. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
06.21.2018	Lordstown – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) made the following statement after the zoning approval to advance TJX Homegoods Project. “Today we reached yet another major milestone in what has been a long and arduous journey to bring TJX Homegoods to the Mahoning Valley. We have all worked long and hard to make this project a reality. I applaud Mayor Hill and Lordstown officials for doing their part tonight. Workers in our area will be better off because of this achievement. I continue to be encouraged by the resilience and support of the Lordstown community and its elected leadership. I will continue to do whatever it takes to ensure that this facility, with its thousands of jobs and millions of dollars in payroll and revenue, comes to our region."
06.21.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) released the following statement after voting against the Republicans’ partisan Farm Bill. The Farm Bill passed with a vote of 213-211. “I’m disappointed House Republicans brought to the floor a Farm Bill without any Democratic support, again. This bill, which passed, jeopardizes everything from school lunches to farm subsidies, high-speed rural broadband to environmental conservation. The Farm Bill’s cuts to the SNAP program takes food off the tables of 1.5 million veterans and 23,000 active duty servicemembers, not to mention thousands of low-income schoolchildren and seniors who rely on SNAP benefits for basic nutrition. It slashes hundreds of millions of dollars from rural development initiatives and loan guarantees for American small businesses, putting up even more barriers to deploying high-speed broadband in every corner of our country. It rolls back advancements in land conservation programs and cuts funding for sustainable farm practices. This bill also slashes the “tiny but mighty” programs, that help drive innovation and growth throughout our farm and food system. “Our food system is broken. Every year we spend $190.2 billion to treat obesity, $316.6 billion to treat heart disease and $245 billion to treat diabetes. This is unsustainable. It is far past time for Democrats and Republicans to come together and fix these massive problems tied to our food system and access to proper nutrition. We need a comprehensive, biaprtisan Farm Bill that truly tackles these issues and helps create a healthier tomorrow.” Congressman Tim Ryan wrote an op-ed earlier this year about the importance of providing more funding for the smaller programs funded through the Farm Bill. The op-ed can be found here.
06.20.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) this morning condemned President Trump’s family separation policy on the House Floor. The President’s policy has separated more than 2,300 children from their parents. Click on the screen shot to watch the video. The following is a full transcript of his remarks: “Mr. Speaker, I think about my wife Andrea and I when we go to take a couple days away from the kids, and we leave our 4-year old with his grandparents – how heartbreaking it is to even leave that kid – when you’re leaving him with grandparents. You know, I think about – I think about my great grandparents who came here from Italy, as immigrants. I think about the thirteen years of catholic school that I attended. I think about the conversations in Washington D.C. about family values, and then I think about how in the most powerful country in the world, our governmental policy is to strip kids – babies, toddlers, infants – from their parents. The most powerful country in the world has resorted to this nonsense. This is a joke. And it’s by choice, Mr. Speaker. This is a choice that the most powerful men, in the most powerful country, are choosing to take poor kids away from their parents. It is time for this most powerful President to act immediately and stop the American carnage.”
06.20.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) introduced an amendment to the FY 19 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Bill to provide $575,000,000 for international family planning and reproductive health programs during today’s full committee markup. By a 22-29 vote, Congressional Republicans rejected Congressman Ryan’s amendment. “It is shortsighted and irresponsible to claim America supports global health and then slashes funding for family planning programs. I am disappointed that Republicans voted down my amendment, which would have restored this essential funding. An estimated 214 million women in developing countries who want to avoid pregnancy currently have an unmet need for modern contraception,” said Congressman Ryan. “Supporting family planning and reproductive health services is a critical investment in the health, lives, and futures of women, girls, and families around the world. We cannot expect to be a global leader for health care and women’s rights when we are stripping funding and the most basic health care rights from the world’s most vulnerable.” The base bill caps funding for international family planning programs at $461 million, a $114 million dollar cut to current funding levels. The consequences of this cut would be drastic, resulting in nearly: 4.7 million fewer women and couples would receive contraceptive services and supplies; 1.4 million more unintended pregnancies, including 615,600 more unplanned births, would occur; 604,200 more abortions would take place (of which more would be unsafe); and Over 2,700 more maternal deaths would occur.
06.20.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) joined 190 of his Democratic Colleagues in introducing the Keep Families Together Act, H.R. 6135. The bill is in response to President Trump’s zero-tolerance immigration policy of separating families at our southern border: “The Trump Administration’s decision to rip these families apart is just that, a decision, and it’s being enabled by a Republican-led Congress that supports this family separation policy. We didn’t need to introduce this bill. The President can fix it today. If this Administration had an ounce of humanity, it would do the right thing and bring these families back together,” said Congressman Ryan. The Keep Families Together Act would: Keep Families Together: The bill promotes family unity by prohibiting Department of Homeland Security (DHS) officials from separating children from their parents, except in extraordinary circumstances. In these limited circumstances, separation could not occur unless parental rights have been terminated, a child welfare agency has issued a best interest determination, or the Port Director or the Chief Border Patrol agent of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) have approved separation due to trafficking indicators or other concerns of risk to the child. It requires an independent child welfare official to review any such separation and return the child if no harm to the child is present. It imposes financial penalties on officials who violate the prohibition on family separation. Limit Criminal Prosecutions for Asylum Seekers: The majority of the parents separated at the border are being criminally prosecuted for illegal entry or re-entry. This bill restricts the prosecution of parents who are asylum seekers by adopting the recommendation of the DHS Office of Inspector General. The bill delays prosecutions for illegal entry or re-entry for asylum seekers and creates an affirmative defense for asylum seekers. It also codifies our commitment to the Refugee protocol prohibiting the criminal punishment of those seeking protection from persecution. Increase Child Welfare Training: The bill requires all CBP officers and agents to complete child welfare training on an annual basis. Port Directors and Chief Border Agents, those who are authorized to make decisions on family separations, must complete an additional 90 minutes of annual child-welfare training. Establish Public Policy Preference for Family Reunification: The bill establishes a preference for family unity, discourages the separation of siblings, and creates a presumption that detention is not in the best interests of families and children. Add Procedures for Separated Families: The bill requires DHS to develop policies and procedures allowing parents and children to locate each other and reunite if they have been separated. Such procedures must be public and made available in a language that parents can understand. In cases of separation, it requires DHS to provide parents with a weekly report containing information about a child, and weekly phone communication. Establish Other Required Measures: In order to inform Congressional oversight and promote public understanding of the use family separation, the bill requires a report on the separation of families every six months.
06.14.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) introduced an amendment to the FY 2019 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Bill to protect employees from reproductive health discrimination during yesterday’s full committee markup. Congressional Republicans rejected Ryan’s amendment in an effort to use this bill to defund a law protecting employees in the District of Columbia from workplace discrimination based on reproductive health decisions. “No man or woman should be discriminated against by an employer based on reproductive health decisions made outside of work. It is insulting that Congressional Republicans who usually loathe big government feel it is appropriate to interfere with local D.C. matters and undermine local control by burying provisions like this in larger bills. The local government of the District of Columbia understands that and acted on behalf of its citizens to protect them from such workplace discrimination. My amendment would have allowed the District of Columbia to continue funding the enforcement of its non-discrimination ordinance with local funding,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. The amendment was rejected by a voice vote. Section 818 is a new provision prohibiting Federal and local funds from being used to carry out the Reproductive Health Non-Discrimination Amendment Act, or RHNDA, which was passed by the D.C. Council in 2014. Congressman Ryan’s amendment would restore the District of Columbia’s ability to use local funds—including local taxes and fees—to carry out its non-discrimination law and the will of its elected representatives. Watch Congressman Ryan speak on the amendment here.
06.14.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) introduced the Social and Emotional Learning for Families (SELF) Act. The bill authorizes a competitive grant program that would focus on the development, implementation, and evaluation of dual capacity, two-generation parent engagement programs designed to increase the ability of parents to demonstrate and teach children social and emotional skills, and of teachers and school staff to work with parents to develop these skills. While current initiatives that adopt two-generation approaches for promoting development of social and emotional skills primarily target parents of young children through preschool (e.g., Head Start) and home visiting programs, the SELF Act will support programs for families of school-age children. “There is growing recognition that social and emotional skills are essential for students’ healthy functioning and positive academic outcomes. Social emotional learning helps increase attendance, decrease suspensions and behavioral incidences, and improve attention and participation among students,” said Congressman Ryan. “This growth of our students cannot be achieved without the participation of our educators, school staff, and families. It’s why I’ve introduced the SELF Act which promotes and encourages collaboration between schools and parents around the development of their students’ social and emotional skills. This partnership is not only beneficial to the student’s long term academic success, but necessary for them to be a productive member of the American workforce.” Full text of the bill can be found here.
06.13.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) today issued the following proclamation commending Major General Mark Bartman, Adjutant General for the Ohio National Guard, and the entire Camp Ravenna facility for receiving the 2018 Secretary of the Army Environmental Award to the Ohio Army National Guard - Ravenna Army Ammunition Plant Environmental Restoration Team for Environmental Restoration (Team Category). This award is the Army's highest honor for outstanding environmental stewardship and leadership. This award is presented to those individuals, teams, and installations on the forefront of Army's effort to protect human health and safety and provide support to our warfighting readiness mission. A representative from Congressman Ryan’s staff presented the proclamation at Camp Ravenna’s award ceremony today (Congressman Ryan was in Washington, DC for votes). “The men and women stationed at Camp Ravenna are the best our country has to offer. Their commitment to service extends to every part of their community, unit, and country. I would like to congratulate the Ravenna Army Ammunition Plant Environmental Restoration Team for their hard work, and for earning this award. They have made us all very proud and set the gold standard for how military installations should interact with the environment in which they exist,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. Congressman Ryan’s proclamation can be found here. Camp Ravenna’s award ceremony took place at 11:00am on June 13th at Camp Ravenna.
06.13.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) sent a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen regarding raids conducted by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) at Corso’s Flower and Garden Center in Sandusky and Castalia, Ohio – where 200 heavily armed officers forcibly detained 114 individuals. “I’m deeply concerned about the use of aggressive force and disruptive manner in which ICE forcibly detained 114 individuals. No person should be deported without full due process or separated from their children and families,” said Congressman Ryan. “We are a welcoming nation, a compassionate nation, an understanding nation – ripping these families apart is contrary to who we are as a nation. These raids have scarred our communities and left people feeling hurt, scared, and confused. I urge Secretary Nielsen and the Department of Homeland Security to put these families first and keep them together.” A full copy of the letter can be found here and below: June 13, 2018 The Honorable Kirstjen M. Nielsen Secretary of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Secretary Nielsen: As you know, there was a raid recently conducted by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) at Corso’s Flower and Garden Center in both Sandusky and Castalia, Ohio. This raid consisted of 200 heavily armed officers who, during the raid, forcibly detained 114 workers. Reports suggest the raid was carried out in an unnecessarily aggressive and disruptive manner that subsequently traumatized an entire community. I write today to seek assurances that none of the detained individuals will be deported without full due process, including access to an attorney, in immigration court. These detained workers, irrespective of where they have come from, what their names are, or what language they speak, deserve a fair and open process. There should be no exceptions. Furthermore, the people being detained are fathers, mothers, sons and daughters. It is unconscionable to simply rip these people away from their children and families who may depend on them for survival. They have adapted to American culture and have contributed to the betterment of our country and economy in a variety of ways. I hope your Department will consider the big picture in situations such as these and understand that tearing families apart via detainment and deportations often causes more trouble and expense for the U.S. than it is preventing. Thank you for your consideration of this critical issue. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
06.12.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to the summit in Singapore between President Trump and North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un: “Diplomacy should be the cornerstone of any foreign policy. Backed by a strong military, diplomacy is essential to our efforts to build a safer, more prosperous world. That diplomacy, however, must be carried out wisely and in cooperation with our allies. I share the Administration’s goals of complete, verifiable, and irreversible denuclearization of the North Korean regime. Regrettably, it seems that we have nothing today to show for our efforts other than a toothless statement and the same promises that the North Korean regime has already given and broken many times over to previous presidents. On the other side, the North Koreans were given legitimacy on the world stage, and a compulsive assurance from President Trump that the U.S. would suspend joint military exercises with South Korea. This concession from Trump to North Korea is deeply concerning. The President would do well to remember who our friends really are. I feel no discomfort expressing my unease at the flowery language the President used again and again with Kim Jong-Un, who is perhaps the world’s worst human rights abuser, just days after disrespecting some of our closest allies,” said Congressman Ryan.
06.11.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) released this statement in response to the United States Supreme Court’s 5-4 ruling in Husted v. A. Philip Randolph Institute favoring Ohio’s voter roll purge. “The right to vote is a cornerstone of our democracy and must be protected. Every American who is eligible deserves an equal opportunity to elect their representatives and weigh in on the issues that matter most to them. The U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling in Husted v. A. Philip Randolph Institute has undermined that founding principle. With this decision, Ohio Secretary of State John Husted has been given the all-clear to continue purging thousands of Ohioans from the voter rolls,” said Congressman Ryan. “Our public officials should be fighting to protect our right to vote, not inhibiting it. I will stop at nothing to ensure this fundamental freedom is restored to every eligible Ohioan. That is why I am proud to be a cosponsor of the Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2017, which would reinstate the eliminated portions of the landmark Voting Rights Act of 1965 and expand voting rights to several disenfranchised groups. Any party or movement willing to suppress votes for political gain is an affront to our democratic values and ideals.”
06.08.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Nita Lowey (D-NY), House Appropriations Committee Ranking Member, and Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH), House Legislative Branch Appropriations Subcommittee Ranking Member, today called out a senseless attempt by House Republicans, led by Congressman Mark Meadows (R-NC), to interfere with Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation. Yesterday evening, Rep. Meadows offered an amendment to the FY 2019 Legislative Branch Appropriations bill that would require the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to perform a semi-annual audit of special counsels. This amendment passed the House by a vote of 207-201. “House Republicans will apparently stop at nothing to help President Trump denigrate the Special Counsel investigation of him, his campaign, and his White House. Legal experts agree that the Meadows amendment has no real-world effect, but Republicans offered the amendment anyway to cast aspersions on Robert Mueller — one of the most respected law enforcement officials in our country. Fortunately, this attempt won’t work. The American people understand that it is not normal for a President to be engaged in so much questionable conduct or for his political party to go to such lengths to obscure the truth. This amendment will do nothing to stop Special Counsel Mueller from doing his job and finding the truth,” said Ranking Member Lowey. “This amendment is an attempt to enlist the GAO into the Republican effort to discredit Special Counsel Mueller, and it is a symbolic attempt to muddy the waters further on the independent Russia investigation. Ignoring the fact that this amendment does nothing to change current law, it was passed by the Republican House of Representatives in a party line vote. It is a transparent effort to inject more confusion and misinformation into Robert Muller’s critical investigation, and intimidate the dedicated men and women in law enforcement who are working diligently to determine Russia’s role in interfering with the 2016 election. It is a shame Congressional Republicans are more concerned with carrying President Trump’s water than in exercising their constitutional duties of oversight. If the President and his party are interested in putting this in the rearview, they should stop their theatrics and give the Special Counsel what he needs to conclude his work,” said Congressman Ryan. Background: The text says “no funds in this bill can be used to enforce a provision of law enacted in 2009 that repealed an earlier provision of law that required GAO review of Independent Counsel spending.” Even if the Meadows amendment was signed into law, you can’t “not enforce” a repeal that happened years ago. This amendment does not have the power to reestablish the semiannual Government Accountability Office review, and Appropriations Democratic staff understand that the House Office of Legislative Counsel (charged with writing legislation), Office of Law Revision Counsel (charged with maintaining the U.S. Code), and GAO have reached the same conclusion.
06.08.2018	Washington, DC – Reps. Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) today sent a letter to U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) Comptroller General Gene Dodaro requesting a report on food policy and how it connects to public health. In the letter, Reps. Ryan and DeLauro wrote, “During 2011–2014, more than one-third of adults or about 84 million people were obese. Moreover, in 2012, 86 percent of the nation’s $2.7 trillion annual health care expenditures went to addressing chronic health conditions, including diet-related conditions, such as diabetes. Such conditions can also lead to negative effects on the economy and nation through increased absences from work and decreased productivity, rising business and personal healthcare costs, and impaired military readiness.” “The rise in chronic diseases and conditions across the United States is alarming. It not only negatively impacts a person’s lifestyle, but takes a toll on our nation’s economy and health care system. Our country needs to get healthier and that can start by examining what we put on our plates,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “I’m urging the GAO to explore how Congress can step up and combat skyrocketing health issues with a comprehensive food policy. We need to understand how to address these health challenges and reduce the costs and risks of diet-related chronic disease.” “Each year, tens of millions of Americans deal with chronic diseases and conditions that a healthy diet can help prevent,” said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro. “That is why I am proud to be working with Congressman Ryan to make our federal policies more effective at addressing these illnesses and to bring costs down for families and the government. Congress must do more to address this issue, and the research we are requesting today will help people live healthier lives.” “We face a national nutrition crisis. Diet-related diseases like obesity, diabetes, heart disease, and cancers are hurting American families, producing crushing healthcare costs for U.S. businesses, Medicare, and Medicaid, and harming our military. Fixing this crisis should be a bipartisan priority. The results of this crucial GAO assessment will inform Congress on sensible actions and polices to help catalyze a healthier food system for all Americans,” said Dr. Dariush Mozaffarian, MD DrPh, Dean of Friedman School of Nutrition Science & Policy, Tufts University. “Our government is responsible in large part for our food system and its consequences - both good and bad. The multiple agencies involved in food and health are not well coordinated and policies are often in conflict, nor has the impact of their policies been fully appreciated. A GAO analysis of these issues and recommendations would have a significant impact on the health of our nation and improvement of our food system,” said Dr. Mark Hyman, Director of the Cleveland Clinic Center for Functional Medicine. The full text of the letter is available below and online here: June 7, 2018 The Honorable Gene Dodaro Comptroller General of the United States U.S. Government Accountability Office 441 G Street, NW Washington, DC 20548 Dear Mr. Dodaro: Chronic diseases and conditions—such as heart disease, stroke, cancer, type 2 diabetes, obesity, and arthritis—are among the most common, costly, and preventable health problems. While many factors such as environmental conditions, lifestyle choices and genetics contribute to an individual’s health, a healthy diet plays a key role in preventing these diseases and in extending years of life. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) have reported that as of 2012, the latest year for which data are available, about half of all adults in the United States—117 million people—had one or more chronic health conditions, and one in four adults had two or more chronic health conditions. During 2011–2014, more than one-third of adults or about 84 million people were obese. Moreover, in 2012, 86 percent of the nation’s $2.7 trillion annual health care expenditures went to addressing chronic health conditions, including diet-related conditions, such as diabetes. Such conditions can also lead to negative effects on the economy and nation through increased absences from work and decreased productivity, rising business and personal healthcare costs, and impaired military readiness. Numerous federal agencies play a role in supporting public health in a variety of ways. For example: The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) administers the Medicare and Medicaid programs and the Children’s Health Insurance Program, and various HHS agencies, including CDC and the National Institutes of Health, also conduct research on public health. The Food and Drug Administration provides information to the public on nutrition and is responsible for ensuring that labels for most foods under its jurisdiction contain required nutrition information. The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA)’s Food and Nutrition Service administers various programs that provide nutrition assistance to low-income individuals, including the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program [snap]; the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children; the Food Insecurity Nutrition Incentive, which incentivizes the purchase of fruits and vegetables by SNAP clients; the National School Lunch Program; the School Breakfast Program; and the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program. [1] In addition, USDA helps farmers manage the risk associated with agriculture and incentivizes the production of certain crops through its commodity support and federal crop insurance programs. USDA’s Agricultural Research Service and its National Institute for Food and Agriculture also support research on food and nutrition. In collaboration with HHS, USDA produces the Dietary Guidelines for Americans on a 5-year basis. The Department of Defense’s (DOD) Military Health System provides care to members of the military and their families. In addition, the Defense Logistics Agency, as well as several other DOD organizations, purchase billions of dollars’ worth of food annually for service members and their families, and as such, can influence food markets as well as the health of members of the U.S. military and their dependents. In light of the concerns outlined above, we request GAO’s assistance in addressing the following questions: What does current scientific research show about the links between diet and chronic health conditions? What is known about the costs of health related disease in the United States, and what is the federal government’s share of these costs? What federal agency food and nutrition-related programs exist that may help reduce the costs and risks of diet-related chronic disease, what strategies, expertise and resources have been dedicated to those programs, and how has progress been measured? To what extent, if at all, have selected federal agencies coordinated their efforts with each other and with other government entities (e.g., international, state, local, tribal) and the private sector to reduce the costs and risks of diet-related chronic disease; and how can any unmet opportunities for improved coordination be addressed? What challenges do selected federal agencies face in reducing the costs and risks of diet-related chronic disease? What additional actions, if any, have stakeholders identified that selected federal agencies could take to reduce the costs and risks of diet-related chronic disease? [1] For a detailed list of federal nutrition assistance programs within various federal agencies, see GAO, Domestic Food Assistance: Complex System Benefits Millions, but Additional Efforts Could Address Potential Inefficiency and Overlap among Smaller Programs, GAO-10-346 (Washington, D.C.: Apr. 15, 2010).
06.07.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) today voted against the GOP’s destructive rescissions package. “Under Republican control, the United States is falling further and further behind in competitiveness and global influence. Instead of recognizing that and doubling down on making critical investments in workforce development, infrastructure, and education, the Republican party is pushing ahead with a reckless rescissions bill that hobbles just those things. It callously cuts funding to the Children’s Health Insurance Program and makes it harder for children to seek quality health care. This is yet another example of President Trump and House Republican’s reckless behavior and their inability to put the needs of their constituents above their own. Funding for investments, children’s health care, and programs to grow our economy are being sacrificed to balance the deficit caused by the GOP’s tax scam – it’s outrageous and the GOP isn’t batting an eye. The American people deserve better,” said Congressman Ryan. The Trump-GOP rescissions bill fails the American people by eliminating funding for children’s health insurance without reinvesting in health care and human services for children and families. Just months after passing the Trump-GOP tax scam, which added more than $1.5 trillion to annual deficits, Republicans are proposing to eliminate more than $7 billion in funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program. Rescinding these funds prevents Congress from reinvesting them in other priorities like child and maternal health, early childhood education, biomedical research, community health centers, and other important initiatives. In addition to eliminating Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) funding, the approximately $15 billion rescissions bill includes numerous cuts to programs that create jobs, grow our economy, and strengthen communities. The bill cuts funding for the Economic Development Administration and Community Development Financial Institutions, both of which play a critical role in creating jobs in distressed communities and rural areas. The bill rescinds billions of dollars from programs like the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program and Title 17 Innovative Technology Loan Guarantee, which support transformational energy efficiency programs and create jobs in the clean energy sector. The bill includes additional cuts to the Corporation for National and Community Service, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation, health infrastructure, rural water programs, transportation improvements in the Appalachian region, and many other small but important programs. The rescissions bill undermines the carefully negotiated Bipartisan Budget Agreement and is being rushed to the floor without Committee consideration or meaningful debate. The bill includes cuts to funding that was appropriated under the fiscal year 2017 omnibus, which was negotiated just over a year ago. Upending bipartisan agreements poisons the well and makes future negotiations more difficult. There has been no consideration of the rescissions bill in the Appropriations Committee and the bill is being rushed to the floor less than 48 hours after the White House submitted the most recent version of its rescissions proposal. Instead of rubber-stamping President Trump’s rescissions package, Congress should conduct rigorous oversight to determine why the Trump administration has not spent these funds even as they misspend tax dollars on first class flights, fountain pens, and luxury dining sets.
06.07.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today applauded the passage of Ohio House Bill 292, which included an amendment from Senator Sean O’Brien and Representative Glenn Holmes that would allow a possible referendum vote on the TJX HomeGoods project in Lordstown, Ohio to take place months earlier than under existing law. The legislation now awaits Governor Kasich’s signature. “I am delighted by the news of the passage of this legislation, which will help fast-track the TJX HomeGoods project. I applaud Senator Sean O’Brien and Representative Glenn Holmes for their diligent work shepherding this measure through both chambers of the Ohio Statehouse. They are both exemplary leaders and got the job done during a tumultuous time. Their constituents will be better off because of this achievement,” said Congressman Ryan. “I have strongly championed this project since the very beginning. We must continue to do whatever it takes to ensure that this facility, with its thousands of jobs and millions of dollars in payroll and revenue, comes to our region. I have been encouraged by the resilience and support of the Lordstown community and elected leadership throughout this entire process, and am proud to represent them in the United States Congress. I would also like to thank Mayor Hill of Lordstown for his tireless work on this, James Dignan at Youngstown/Warren Regional Chamber, and the team at Jobs Ohio.” “Congressman Ryan acted as the coach,” said Representative Holmes, “Senator O’Brien was the quarterback and I caught the pass to shepherd it through the House. Teamwork prevailed to benefit the entire region. This was truly an exercise in diplomacy and consensus building, making sure there was a speaker and the process was not obstructed for political purposes.” “We are now another step closer to securing an expected 1,000 new jobs in the village of Lordstown,” said Senator O’Brien. “I truly believe that this TJX Homegoods site will help strengthen our local economy, and I am happy to continue doing whatever I can to ensure this project happens. This amendment will fast track this project and I am happy we were able to get this done before summer recess,” said Senator O’Brien. “I would like to thank everyone who worked together to make this a reality, including the local officials in the village of Lordstown, my colleagues in the Ohio Senate and House as well as the Trumbull County Board of Elections.”
06.07.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan assailed President Trump’s formal bailout of Chinese telecom giant, ZTE. “Days after President Trump took a sledgehammer to our relationships with Canada and Europe by imposing harmful tariffs -- jeopardizing alliances that helped us win the Cold War – his Administration has formally announced its golden parachute for Chinese telecom giant ZTE. This is a company that repeatedly violated sanctions against Iran and North Korea, and with which the NSA, FBI, and CIA all have cyber security concerns. The Pentagon even stopped selling its phones on military bases. Nevertheless, they continue to get VIP treatment from President Trump and his inner-circle while communities like Youngstown and Akron suffer because of the President’s own actions. President Xi and the Chinese government are celebrating, while President Trump got rolled. There’s no other way of putting it. China has a long-term economic plan, a 20-year plan, a 30-year plan, a 50-year plan, 100-year plan. We're operating in a 24-hour news cycle. We should be facilitating a massive reinvestment into communities across the U.S. that have been left behind by rapid globalization, and by abusive and illegal Chinese trade practices. Instead, it’s Trump first, China second, America last,” said Congressman Ryan. Earlier this week, Congressman Ryan joined with Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) to introduce the Fair Trade With China Enforcement Act. This legislation would take sweeping steps to safeguard American economic and national security interests against abusive Chinese trade practices by specifically safeguarding American assets from Chinese influence and possession. Specifically, the Fair Trade with China Enforcement Act would: Prohibit the sale of national security sensitive technology and intellectual property to China. Increase taxes on multinational corporations’ income earned in China at a rate similar to the lost value of stolen IP and technology. Cancel an income tax treaty signed in the 1980s and tax China on their “investment” in the U.S., including their holdings of the national debt. Prepare duties on, and impose Chinese investor shareholding caps on U.S. companies producing, goods targeted by the Made in China 2025 plan. Prohibit the federal government, or subsidiaries/contractors, from purchasing telecommunications equipment or services from Huawei and ZTE. Congressman Tim Ryan has been fighting illegal and unfair Chinese trade practices for his entire Congressional career. He has been leading the fight to reform trade deals so that U.S. workers are not at a disadvantage. This includes leading the charge to hold China accountable for currency manipulation. The Currency Reform For Fair Trade Act, which was introduced alongside Representatives Sander Levin (D-MI) and Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) in April of last year, takes aim at currency manipulators by enabling the Department of Commerce to impose countervailing duties to offset the impact of currency manipulation on a U.S. industry. An earlier version of this legislation which was introduced in 2010 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 348-79 on September 29, 2010.
06.05.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) partnered with Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) and Senator Rubio (R-FL) to introduce the Fair Trade With China Enforcement Act. This legislation takes sweeping steps to safeguard American economic and national security interests against abusive Chinese trade practices by specifically safeguarding American assets from Chinese influence and possession. “Our imbalanced trading relationship with China raises significant national and economic security concerns for the United States that we should be taking seriously. Congress has an obligation to fight for a level playing field with China that protects our own workers, intellectual property, and manufacturing base. We must act to stop abusive Chinese trade practices immediately, and then put into place a long-term strategic plan to strengthen the United States’ position in the globe. I am proud to introduce this bipartisan legislation with Senator Marco Rubio and Congressman Conaway to check China’s economic abuses that undercut our economic viability and national security,” said Congressman Ryan. “China has taken advantage of our trading relationship, becoming increasingly aggressive with illegal trade practices in an attempt to specifically undermine and drive American companies out of business,” said Congressman Conaway. “This presents significant national security and economic risks to the United States. President Trump has made strides towards improving our trading position with China, and the Fair Trade with China Enforcement Act will build on those efforts to ensure that America’s own best interests are protected from Chinese aggression. This legislation prohibits the sale of national security sensitive U.S. intellectual property and technology to China, and protects the U.S. from China’s attempts to weaken the U.S. economy. Chinese commercial technology is a proven vehicle for the Chinese government to spy on the U.S. government, and this bill includes my legislation to prohibit the federal government from purchasing or leasing Huawei or ZTE products or services. In today’s changing global environment, American national security and economic interests must come first. I’m proud to introduce this legislation with Congressman Ryan to do just that.” This bill is the companion legislation to S. 2826, introduced by Senator Rubio. “Re-balancing America’s relationship with China is one of the great challenges of the 21st century. Without strong, consistent, and strategic action to assert our national interests, China threatens to supplant the United States to undermine our security and prosperity,” said Senator Rubio. “The Fair Trade with China Enforcement Act targets China’s tools of economic aggression to make clear the United States will stand up for its workers on the international stage. I welcome Rep. Conaway and Rep. Ryan’s leadership in the House of Representatives on this critical issue.” Specifically, the Fair Trade with China Enforcement Act would: Prohibit the sale of national security sensitive technology and intellectual property to China. Increase taxes on multinational corporations’ income earned in China at a rate similar to the lost value of stolen IP and technology. Cancel an income tax treaty signed in the 1980s and tax China on their “investment” in the U.S., including their holdings of the national debt. Prepare duties on, and impose Chinese investor shareholding caps on U.S. companies producing, goods targeted by the Made in China 2025 plan. Prohibit the federal government, or subsidiaries/contractors, from purchasing telecommunications equipment or services from Huawei and ZTE. Congressman Tim Ryan has been fighting illegal and unfair Chinese trade practices for his entire Congressional career. He has been leading the fight to reform trade deals so that US workers are not at a disadvantage. This includes leading the charge to hold China accountable for currency manipulation. The Currency Reform For Fair Trade Act, which was introduced alongside Representatives Sander Levin (D-MI), and Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) in April of last year takes aim at currency manipulators by enabling the Department of Commerce to impose countervailing duties to offset the impact of currency manipulation on a U.S. industry. An earlier version of this legislation which was introduced in 2010 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 348-79 on September 29, 2010.
05.31.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s decision to place steel and aluminum tariffs on Mexico, Canada, and the European Union. The proposal would subject our allies with a 25 percent tariff on steel and a 10 percent tariff on aluminum. “This decision could be a disaster if not overturned soon. Of particular concern, we are punishing our friends in Canada and Europe who have similar—and in some cases, stronger—worker protections and environmental standards. Meanwhile, President Trump is more concerned about letting China off the hook than protecting American workers. This dangerous approach furthers the interests of Russia and China by weakening the friendships and alliances that helped us win World War II and the Cold War and propelled the United States to be the leader in the world for the last 75 years. This Administration and the Republican Rubber Stamp Congress continue to make decisions that weaken our nation and inject uncertainty and instability in our economy. This decision by President Trump is counterproductive to those of us working to increase good-paying U.S. manufacturing jobs and improve the economies of areas that have seen manufacturing decline,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. On March 22, 2018, Congressman sent a letter to President Trump urging him to impose tariffs on bad actors like China and Russia, not our allies. He warned the President that tariffs on our allies have the potential to do significant damage to the economy.
05.25.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) led the Ohio House Democratic Delegation in urging Governor John Kasich to rescind employment and community engagement requirements for Medicaid beneficiaries. On February 16, 2018, the Ohio Department of Medicaid proposed a Group VIII Work Requirements and Community Engagement 1115 Demonstration Waiver. The letter was cosigned by Representatives Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11), and Joyce Beatty (OH-03). “By pushing through a waiver that will have a detrimental impact to majority African American populations, this policy will exacerbate already existing economic and health disadvantages,” the Members wrote. “This same disparate treatment – using counties, instead of cities as a baseline – is also present in Ohio’s method for determining exemptions for work requirements in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). In both cases, the result is unfair for beneficiaries in urban areas with high-unemployment.” “As any steward of taxpayer dollars, we want to retain Medicaid funds for all beneficiaries who truly need the program but this waiver would create needless administrative bureaucracy and red tape that will almost certainly end up accidentally kicking off men and women who truly need and deserve this program,” the Members continued. A full copy of the letter can be found here and below: May 24, 2018 Governor John Kasich Riffe Center, 30th Floor 77 South High Street Columbus, OH 43215-6117 Governor Kasich, We write to you today to express our concerns regarding recent efforts by the State of Ohio to enforce employment and community engagement requirements for Medicaid beneficiaries. Your efforts to implement and expand Medicaid in Ohio allowed for more than 700,000 Ohioans to be enrolled in the program. Through this expansion we have seen great strides in our state for increasing access to quality, affordable healthcare. Your steadfast support of the program in the face of efforts by the Trump Administration and Congressional Republicans to repeal Medicaid, allowed many individuals to access much needed care, especially for those men and women receiving treatment, recovery and prevention for substance use through the program. However, on February 16, 2018 the Ohio Department of Medicaid proposed a Group VIII Work Requirements and Community Engagement 1115 Demonstration Waiver that would severely impact communities that have a higher percentage of African Americans. The waiver states, “Due to significant variations in the employment market across Ohio counties, Ohio will also align the Work and Community Engagement Requirement with SNAP policies that provide a waiver of the Able-Bodied Adults Without Dependents (ABAWD) time limit to certain counties (i) whose 24-month average unemployment rate was greater than 120% of the national unemployment rate during the same 24-month period based on unemployment data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, or (ii) which do not have a sufficient number of jobs to provide employment for individuals.”[1] By basing the exemption on entire counties--instead of cities with high unemployment within the county--the waiver is effectively discriminatory against low-income communities. Of the 26 counties that are exempted, on average 95 percent of the population is white. If this waiver is implemented, the State of Ohio owes every city the same requirements for enforcement. By pushing through a waiver that will have a detrimental impact to majority African-American populations, this policy will exacerbate already existing economic and health disadvantages. This same disparate treatment—using counties, instead of cities, as a baseline—is also present in Ohio’s method for determining exemptions for work requirements in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). In both cases, the result is unfair for beneficiaries in urban areas with high-unemployment, and we urge you to change how work requirements exemptions are determined if Ohio proceeds with its 1115 Demonstration Waiver. There is a larger question, however, about the very rationale of the 1115 Demonstration Waiver. As any steward of taxpayer dollars, we want to retain Medicaid funds for all beneficiaries who truly need the program but this waiver would create needless administrative bureaucracy and red tape that will almost certainly end up accidentally kicking off men and women who truly need and deserve this program. Studies have shown that the enforcement of these requirements and the case management services needed would cost Ohio taxpayers more than $378 million over the course of the waiver.[2] These new requirements would, in fact, target a small fraction of the overall millions of beneficiaries properly using Medicaid. Thus, implementing this waiver risks spending more taxpayer money then it would save. We urge you to reconsider these policies and instead support the idea that every American should have access to quality and affordable healthcare. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Marcy Kaptur Member of Congress Tim Ryan Member of Congress Joyce Beatty Member of Congress Marcia L. Fudge Member of Congress [1] http://medicaid.ohio.gov/Portals/0/Resources/PublicNotices/GroupVIII/GroupVIII-WRCE-1115-Final-Submission.pdf [2] https://www.communitysolutions.com/research/medicaid-work-requirement-waiver-analysis-budget-neutrality/ ### Michael Zetts | Communications Director Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13) Office: 202.225.5261 | Mobile: 330.398.2569 Michael.zetts@mail.house.gov
05.24.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) strongly condemns the Trump Administration’s decision to implement a Title X gag rule. On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced a notice of proposed rulemaking that would impose new restrictions designed to make it impossible for patients to get birth control or preventive care from reproductive health care providers like Planned Parenthood. The rule would also restrict doctors, nurses, hospitals, and community health centers across the country that participate in the Title X program to refer their patients for safe, legal abortion. “I stand with the 59,000 women, men, and young people in Ohio who receive life-saving, preventive health care services through Title X funding at Planned Parenthood health centers. In several counties in my district, including Trumbull, Mahoning, and Summit Counties, Planned Parenthood is the sole Title X provider. The result of Trump’s gag rule is that people will not get the essential health care they need. Further, this is clearly a continuation of the Republican Party’s politically motivated crusade on women’s reproductive health care. When millions of people in our country need access to more health care, it is unconscionable that the Republican Party continues its narrow, ideological attacks,” said Congressman Ryan. Congressman Ryan has worked to improve access to health care for all Ohioans and to combat the infant mortality epidemic. During his time in Congress, he has authored and supported many proposals to improve women’s health care, ensure access to contraception by increasing funding for family planning programs, and ensure access to safe, legal abortion.
05.24.2018	Washington, DC - Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) released the following statement regarding President Trump's decision to cancel the U.S.-North Korea summit: “The President’s handling of disarmament talks with North Korea leaves a lot to be desired. Unfortunately, it looks to our allies and to our adversaries that the President doesn’t know what he’s doing. It seems the President is finding that empty bluster doesn’t work as well in diplomacy as it does on the campaign trail. The reality is, China and North Korea have his number. He’s an erratic President at a time when the United States desperately needs a steady hand. If he was truly interested in ushering in a more stable, peaceful world he’d get to work with our allies to engage in diplomacy all over the globe,” said Congressman Tim Ryan
05.23.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) announced $17,434,051 in public Housing Capital Fund grants in communities across Ohio’s 13th Congressional District. This series of formula grants come through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). “Investing in public housing is critical to ensuring every person has an affordable and livable home to come to at the end of the day,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “These funds will help our community provide safe quality housing for all our neighbors and provide the necessary resources for our Housing Authorities to best serve Ohioans. As a member of Congress, I will continue to fight for this important funding and advocate for accessible, affordable public housing.” Housing Authority Grant Amount Youngstown Metropolitan Housing Authority $3,155,927.00 Trumbull Metropolitan Housing Authority $2,834,219.00 Portage Metropolitan Housing Authority $643,860.00 Akron Metropolitan Housing Authority $10,800,045.00 The Public Housing Capital Fund provides funds for the management of our nation’s public housing. The Capital Fund is available by formula distribution for capital and management activities, including development, financing, and modernization of public housing projects, which includes redesign, reconstruction, and reconfiguration of public housing sites and buildings (including accessibility improvements) and development of mixed-finance projects. More information on the Public Housing Capital Fund can be found here.
05.23.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Tim Ryan (D-OH-13) and Elise Stefanik (R-NY-21) introduce the Vietnam Era Veterans Hepatitis C Testing Enhancement Act – bipartisan legislation to increase access to Hepatitis C treatment for our nation’s veterans. “I am proud to be an original cosponsor of the Vietnam Era Veterans Hepatitis C Testing Enhancement Act. Currently the rate of HCV is about twice as high in military personnel than in the general public, and no reliable data exists for Vietnam Era Veterans. At the time of the Vietnam War, HCV had not yet been identified and effectively understood along with proper prevention and infection control opportunities. It is critical that the VA and other veteran service organizations be empowered to work at the community level to assess the health needs of these brave men and women. They answered the call to service, and we owe it to them to help now. This legislation will go a long way to addressing this public health concern by initiating a pilot program to screen 350,000 veterans in a handful of urban and rural VISNs for HCV and collecting critical data on HCV for Vietnam Era Veterans,” said Congressman Ryan. “May is Hepatitis Awareness Month, and I am pleased to work across the aisle on this important legislation to improve healthcare for our veterans,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Vietnam veterans are at a much greater risk for carrying HCV, and millions of our veterans remain unaware of their status, preventing them from accessing care they need. This commonsense legislation will develop a pilot program to study ways we can expand testing and treatment for our heroes. As the proud representative of more veterans than any Congressional district in New York State, I will continue to deliver results in Congress to repay the debt we owe those who have served.” Background: At the time of the Vietnam War, HCV had yet to be identified and properly understood along with proper prevention and infection control opportunities. While it is currently known that the rate of HCV is about twice as high in military personnel than in the general public, no prevalence data exists for Vietnam Era veterans. HCV is an infectious disease that often goes unnoticed for decades until the liver is damaged so severely that an affected individual’s life is at risk and they require dramatic health interventions, including liver transplantation. However, HCV is also easily diagnosed and can be cured well before catastrophic health issues arise. Over recent years, the VA has been working diligently to screen, diagnose, and treat veterans impacted by HCV. These efforts are limited though to veterans that actively engage the VA health system. All Vietnam era veterans shared the same exposure risks and must be offered HCV screening regardless of their current eligibility for VA healthcare. Veterans services organization, such as American Legion Post 1619 in Morrisonville, NY, have demonstrated a great deal of success reaching Vietnam Era veterans outside of VA care with rapid, point-of-care outreach testing. The bipartisan Vietnam Era Veterans HCV Testing Enhancement Act would: Establish a narrow pilot program to screen 350,000 veterans in a handful of urban and rural VISNs for HCV using rapid testing and outreach with veterans groups. Gain important prevalence data on HCV for Vietnam Era veterans. Remove administrative barriers to allow any Vietnam Era veteran to receive an HCV test and understand their need for treatment. Use of rapid testing will ensure all veterans tested will know their HCV status. Provide important and timely information on the success of the program to identify subsequent opportunities to expand the program nationally and or to other veteran cohorts that could benefit from outreach testing. Congressman Ryan is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Mental Health Caucus, and sits on the Appropriations Subcommittee for Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies.
05.22.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) released the following statement on the passage of S. 2155, the so-called “Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act.” This Dodd-Frank rollback bill prioritizes financial institutions over American consumers, while dramatically scaling back protections for homeowners and putting taxpayers at risk of another bank bailout. “Today the House of Representatives chose to side with Wall Street donors, against the best interests of their constituents. Instead of passing a bill that would provide targeted regulatory relief to small, community lenders, House Republicans did what they do best: slapped a nice sounding name on a bad bill. This sweeping regulatory rollback is just another giveaway to big banks. It puts our economy and global economies at risk of another financial meltdown, and puts American taxpayers on the hook for bailing out financial firms burned by own their greed and recklessness. I will continue to fight any legislation that exposes hardworking Americans to financial risk so that giant banks and corporations can gamble on their futures with impunity,” said Congressman Ryan. S. 2155 would re-expose consumers to reckless and abusive financial practices, including many that contributed to the last recession and home foreclosure crisis. The bill weakens crucial consumer protections, including the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s Qualified Mortgage (QM) rule and Ability-to-Repay standard. Specifically, according to the Center for Responsible Lending, the bill would: Expand an exemption from the QM rule to institutions with up to $10 billion in assets and holding loans in portfolio. This expansion means hundreds more larger financial institutions could then evade the common sense standard that lenders verify borrowers’ ability-to-repay their mortgage loan. Not only would this bring back toxic loan products and elevated foreclosure rates, it would also provide legal safe harbor for predatory lenders. Exempt manufactured-home retailers from rules that prevent borrowers from being steered toward loans that are more expensive than those for which they qualify. Exempt 85 percent of banks from Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA) reporting requirements. By eliminating key data on lending patterns, this would make it far more difficult to combat racial discrimination. Eliminate requirements for giant banks and non-bank financial firms to also have their own risk management, such as internal risk committees and company run stress tests. Create a new loophole in the Volcker Rule that would open the door for both small and big banks to engage in speculative trading with customer deposits. ###
05.22.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) called out President Trump’s most recent capitulation to Chinese leaders. On Sunday, Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin announced the postponement of planned steel and aluminum tariffs against China--a reversal from previous policy. "I crossed party lines and supported President Trump's position on tariffs for Chinese steel and aluminum. For too long China was allowed to abuse trade deals, and engage in illegal steel dumping and other practices to the detriment of communities like Youngstown and Akron, Ohio. I’ve been fighting these issues since I first came to Congress, regardless of which party was in charge. Now, like so many other times since his Inauguration, President Trump went back on a campaign promise and against the working people of Northeast Ohio. Tariffs should be imposed on China unless and until they agree to reform their trading relationship with the United States, allow for a level-playing field, and stop stealing our technology,” said Congressman Ryan. Congressman Tim Ryan has been fighting illegal and unfair Chinese trade practices for his entire Congressional career. He has been leading the fight to reform trade deals so that US workers are not at a disadvantage. This includes leading the charge to hold China accountable for currency manipulation. The Currency Reform For Fair Trade Act, which was introduced alongside Representatives Sander Levin (D-MI), and Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) in April of last year takes aim at currency manipulators by enabling the Department of Commerce to impose countervailing duties to offset the impact of currency manipulation on a U.S. industry. An earlier version of this legislation which was introduced in 2010 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 348-79 on September 29, 2010.
05.18.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) released the following statement after the defeat of House Republicans’ partisan Farm Bill. The Farm Bill was rejected 198-213. “The failure of this vote proves what many of us have been saying all along: this Farm Bill should be put out to pasture and replaced with legislation that can meet the growing challenges faced by American families and farmers. The Farm Bill covers everything from school lunches to farm subsidies, high-speed rural broadband to environmental conservation. This bill would have taken food off the tables of 1.5 million veterans and 23,000 active duty servicemembers, not to mention thousands of low-income schoolchildren and seniors who rely on SNAP benefits for basic nutrition. It would have slashed hundreds of millions of dollars from rural development initiatives and loan guarantees for American small businesses, putting up even more barriers to deploying high-speed broadband in every corner of our country. It would roll back advancements in land conservation programs and cuts funding for sustainable farm practices. This bill also slashed the “tiny but mighty” programs, that help drive innovation and growth throughout our farm and food system. “Our food system is broken. Every year we spend $190.2 billion to treat obesity, $316.6 billion to treat heart disease and $245 billion to treat diabetes. This is unsustainable. It is far past time for Democrats and Republicans to come together and fix these massive problems tied to our food system and access to proper nutrition. We need a Farm Bill that truly tackles these issues and helps create a healthier tomorrow.” Congressman Tim Ryan wrote an op-ed earlier this year about the importance of providing more funding for the smaller programs funded through the Farm Bill. The op-ed can be found here.
05.17.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan secured report language in the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations spending bill to direct the Bureau of Prisons to adjust staffing policies that jeopardize correctional officer safety and undermine inmate reentry programming. Overcrowding remains a serious threat to officer safety, particularly at high and medium security facilities. To meet staffing needs, the BOP has used a process called augmentation, where a non-custody employee is assigned custody responsibilities. Language inserted into the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies FY 2019 appropriations bill directs the BOP to curtail its over-reliance on augmentation and instead hire additional full-time correctional staff before continuing to augment existing staff. BOP was also directed to submit quarterly reports on the inmate-to-correctional officer ratio at each facility, using OPM’s definition of a corrections officer, broken out by security level and shift. “Just as an overcrowded prison is a dangerous prison, so is an understaffed prison,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Corrections officers in our nation’s federal prisons are responsible for ensuring the administration of justice, but also the personal safety and security of staff, inmates, and the public. They respond daily to issues related to gangs, violence, mental illness, sexual assault, and drugs. Even under ideal conditions, it is a tough job. These brave men and women, who willingly risk their personal safety to serve the Bureau of Prisons, deserve better than to have a hard job made even harder through chronic understaffing and overcrowding. I am pleased that Congress has taken this step towards eliminating unnecessary risk in this area.” “The Council of Prison Locals sincerely thank Rep. Ryan for being a champion of law enforcement, particularly on this issue. President Trump delivered remarks at the 37th Annual National Peace Officers’ Memorial Services this week calling on the Justice Department to do “everything in its power to defend the lives of American law enforcement. He stated, “We will protect those who protect us.” In our nation’s 122 federal prisons this is what we do. We are apart of the law enforcement community, and we face evil daily, evil which targets us on and off the job, and we endeavor to do everything within our power to keep communities safe at the same time in our nation’s prisons. But, that is significantly hampered when appropriate funding and staffing cuts are prioritized and eliminated by the Administration. We only ask the President keep his promise to those who maintain law and order and reducing crime in our facilities,” said Eric Young, National President of the Council of Prison Locals within the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE). In April, Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Congressman David McKinley (R-WV) met with BOP Director Mark S. Inch to raise their serious concerns regarding BOP staffing practices that have resulted in several injuries and fatalities at federal institutions. In February, Congressman Ryan wrote a letter to President Trump urging him to provide robust funding for the BOP in his FY 2019 budget and express his opposition to proposed cuts of 6,000 positions. You can read that letter here. Later that month, Congressman Ryan led a bipartisan letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions expressing these same concerns. That letter can be found here.
05.14.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today reacted to President Trump’s “China First” policy agenda. “GM Lordstown has lost 2,700 jobs over the last 18 months and hasn’t earned a single tweet from the President. Chinese telecom giant ZTE, however, is getting VIP treatment from the Real Donald Trump himself, who is working overtime to, in his own words, ‘get [zte] back into business, fast.’ Never mind that ZTE is a company with which the NSA, FBI, and CIA all have cyber security concerns. The Pentagon even stopped selling its phones on military bases. President Trump, not to be deterred by the idea of a potentially hostile foreign power compromising sensitive US data, is ordering his Department of Commerce to bend over backwards for a Chinese company anyway. This is instead of facilitating a massive reinvestment into communities across the US that have been left behind by rapid globalization, and in many ways by abusive and illegal Chinese trade practices, “To add insult to injury all this is happening as he and his acolytes jet around the country touting the un-toutable: a $2 trillion tax cut for the top 1% alone, while hardworking families are left struggling to pay the bills. Where will most of the $2 trillion to pay for these tax cuts for the wealthy come from? China. President Trump isn’t tough on China. President Trump isn’t tough on anyone except poor people and senior citizens on fixed incomes trying to figure out if they can afford their healthcare and if their pensions will be there when they retire. “This is yet another in a list of broken promises so long it verges on comical. President Trump took one of the very few areas of agreement we had – a tougher stance on China – and made a mockery of it. He is an erratic President in a time where we need serious leadership to confront growing Chinese military influence in Africa and the South China Sea and their unfair trade practices that are hurting communities across my congressional district,” said Congressman Ryan.
05.11.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) calls on President Trump to reverse his decision to scrap fuel efficiency standards that weaken the market for compact cars like the Chevy Cruze, which are manufactured in Lordstown, Ohio. This comes after the President met with U.S. auto executives, including GM CEO Mary Barra, today to discuss the impact of the rulemaking on the auto industry. “Today President Trump met with U.S. auto executives who urged him to maintain the EPA’s fuel economy targets. I hope he listened. Last month GM Lordstown announced the layoff of the second shift, throwing the lives of 1,500 employees into uncertainty. While low gas prices paved the way for the decline of compact cars like the Chevy Cruze, President Trump’s April announcement to weaken fuel economy standards put his thumb on the scale in favor of the larger cars and SUV’s made elsewhere, hurting our community specifically. The truth is, the fuel economy standards help sell more Chevy Cruzes, and if President Trump truly cares about workers in Lordstown, he will reverse this disastrous decision that hurts our economy, and our environment,” said Congressman Ryan. The layoff announcement on April 13, 2018 followed the April 2, 2018, Final Determination by President Trump’s EPA on the Appropriateness of the Model Years 2022-2025 Light-Duty Vehicle Greenhouse Gas Emissions Standards under the Midterm Evaluation – incentivizing the sale of larger cars and SUVs. This was not a surprise as Secretary Pruitt has questioned climate scientists, eliminating the Clean Power Plan, and now working to roll back fuel economy standards that are reducing carbon pollution. You can read more here. On April 24, 2018 Congressman Ryan urged General Motors to consider ShareWork Ohio, a unique layoff aversion program offered by the Ohio Department of Jobs and Family Services (ODJFS) for employees impacted by the recently announced layoff of the second shift at GM Lordstown. In a letter sent to GM Chairman and CEO Mary Barra, Congressman Ryan highlighted ShareWork Ohio’s outside-the-box approach to retaining valued employees until demand can return to the industry market. You can learn more here. On April 27, 2018 Congressman Ryan spoke directly with GM CEO Mary Barra to discuss the loss of GM Lordstown’s 2nd shift, potential ways to mitigate the impact on our community, and the long-term future of GM Lordstown. Read more here.
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) announces $8.8 Million for Youngstown Air Reserve Station (YARS) and $7.4 Million for Camp Ravenna. Ryan helped secure this funding through his position on the House Appropriations Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Subcommittee (MIL-CON VA). YARS’s funding will go toward increased base security infrastructure. Ryan was able to expedite YAR's funding by inserting a provision in last year’s FY 2018 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Spending bill. Camp Ravenna's funding will go toward a new machine gun range. Ryan also succeeded in creating a new $10 million pilot program to finance construction at veterans service organizations that would enhance their delivery of health and wellness services. “I am thankful to have been able to leverage my position on the MIL-CON VA Subcommittee to bring these funds back to our community so that we can make the important investments needed to keep our military facilities on the cutting edge,” said Congressman Ryan. “The men and women who serve at YARS and Camp Ravenna are the best and brightest we have and it is our responsibility to give them the resources they need to protect and serve both Northeast Ohio and the United States of America.” Additionally, Congressman Ryan was successful in securing several additional elements in the bill to benefit service members and veterans in the 13th Congressional District and across the country: A report on Post-traumatic growth training for veterans. Language encouraging HCV screening outside of traditional sites of care. A report on the VA’s end of life care programs. Requirement that VA and DoD to examine the impact of rare cancers on those who serve. Request that the VA to dedicate additional resources to Neuromuscular Junction research. Request an updated report from the VA on how the VA Department is addressing the opioid epidemic within the veteran community. The Fiscal Year 2019 bill for Military Construction and Veterans Affairs provides $96.9 billion, a $4 billion increase over the Fiscal Year 2018 enacted level. Components of the bill include the following highlights: $2.9 billion for the Veterans Benefits Administration; $1.8 billion to address veteran homelessness; $511 million to support the health needs of women veterans; and Provides the second installment of $2 billion for VA infrastructure improvements.
05.09.2018	Washington, DC – Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13) announced two National Endowment for the Arts grants totaling $100,000. These grants are for specific projects and range from performances and exhibitions, to healing arts and arts education programs, to festivals and artist residencies. The first grant, totaling $90,000, was awarded to David Hassler, Director of Wick Poetry Center at Kent State University, to support a series of intergenerational writing, art, and design workshops inspired by the Cuyahoga River. The second grant, totaling $10,000, was awarded to Christy Bolingbroke, Executive/Artistic Director of the National Center for Choreography at The University of Akron, to support a series of research and development residence for choreographers. “I’m proud of Mr. Hassler and Ms. Bolingbroke for securing these NEA grants. It’s a testament to the creativity and ingenuity that is spread throughout our district,” said Congressman Ryan. “The arts has a powerful way of allowing self-expression, connecting communities, and expanding the way we look at life. These projects are a strong reminder that we must continue to invest in the arts and arts education in our communities.” “In June 2019 our community will celebrate the 50th anniversary of our river’s rebirth. From the crisis of the river burning, we now have the opportunity to celebrate the success through poetry, art, and design, showcase our community’s vibrancy—its riverbanks and bike trails, its hiking paths and streetscapes, and rise to the challenge of conveying what we’ve learned and to ‘dream the river’ for its next 50 years,” said David Hassler. “As the second choreographic center of its kind in the country, NCCAkron will be bringing artists and collaborators from all over the U.S. to further their dance research here in Ohio. Federal support such as this award is pivotal to not only realizing new projects, but also fostering a national platform for the arts,” said Christy Bolingbroke. David Hassler Project Description: To celebrate the anniversary of the Cuyahoga River's rebirth after a 1969 fire, a series of intergenerational workshops will be conducted around the value of the river in the lives of community members, its history, and its future. Through a guided writing and design process, participants will create interactive outdoor kiosks and community poetry stanzas, and collect stories about the value of the river and its future challenges. Field trips and workshops with public school children will include river walks and river talks that will bring the river to the city and the city to the river. Through these activities, the organizational partners will investigate and give voice to the ways the river can sustain the community creatively and teach the public about their connection to the environment and to their community. Christy Bolingbroke Project Description: Each residency will offer choreographers and visiting dancers two or more weeks of unrestricted access to studio space to explore new concepts and develop new works. In addition, the program will provide production support, housing, travel, and financial support to the artists. The Center will partner with the San Francisco Dance Film Festival to pair choreographers with filmmakers to create original dance works choreographed for the camera. Also this summer, NCCAkron will host New York City-based Netta Yerushalmy’s PARAMODERNITIES for a late-stage/technical residency before the work’s world premiere at Jacob’s Pillow the following week. There will be multiple opportunities for the public to interact with the visiting artists, such as through work-in-progress showings, meet-the-artist events, and opportunities for students, pre-professional, and professional dancers to attend creative work sessions, company rehearsals and/or master classes.
05.08.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Iran Nuclear Agreement, known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). “The Iran Nuclear Agreement remains our best chance for lasting peace and nuclear nonproliferation in Iran. Forged with the assistance and support of the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Russia, China, the United Nations, and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) the JCPOA was the toughest check on Iran’s nuclear ambitions in history, with a rigorous system of monitoring in place to make sure they upheld their end of the bargain. With his decision to take the United States out of the agreement, President Trump is once again ignoring his own national security experts, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), and the international community who all agree the deal is working to keep Americans and our allies safer. The President is committing an egregious national security miscalculation rooted in politics, not fact. He is signaling to the world that the United States is not leading with a steady hand. I believe President Trump is making a grave mistake by withdrawing from the Iran Nuclear Agreement, but I also feel passionately that Congress has the opportunity to do the right thing and push back on the President to avoid an international crisis and global instability. I will say finally that in addition to being a dangerous day in US foreign policy, it is also a sad one. No President has done more to diminish the role of American leadership on the global stage. Due to his erratic leadership, the epicenter of the free world seems to no longer be Washington, DC – but Paris, Berlin, and London. When America is on the sidelines, the world is less safe,” said Congressman Ryan.
05.08.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to the Appropriations Committee passing the Fiscal Year 19 Legislative Branch Bill. Congressman Ryan is the Ranking Member of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Subcommittee: “I am pleased the Appropriations Committee passed this much-needed funding. As the Ranking Member of the Legislative Branch Subcommittee on Appropriations, I hear every day why proper resources and funding are needed to make the House of Representatives run efficiently. Over 10,000 employees work every day to ensure this important branch of government is serving the needs of its constituents. While this bill is not perfect, it ensures that the House of Representatives continues to operate smoothly and follows through with its priorities,” said Congressman Ryan. “I am also pleased that language was included that would direct the Library of Congress to expand civic education and participation, increase healthier food options in the House cafeterias, and direct the Architect of the Capitol to study what measures can be taken to conserve resources and promote a more sustainable campus. This bill also directs the Chief Administrative Officer to produce a much needed study on the salary and benefits of Congressional employees and the disparity between genders and ethnic and racial groups. This study will give Congressional leadership and members the information necessary to make sure every employee is paid equally and fairly.” The FY 2019 Legislative Branch Appropriations Billi contains several important provisions and funding measures. Highlights below: Fiscal Year 2019 Legislative Branch Appropriations bill provides $3.81 billion for the Legislative Branch of the Federal government, excluding the Senate. The bill provides $1.257 billion for the House of Representatives. The bill also provides $456.4 million for the Capitol Police, a $63.1 million increase. The largest component of the requested increase is salary and benefit growth for current employees. The bill also provides $2.75 million for the House Wounded Warriors program, a $250,000 increase. The House Chief Administrative Officer receives $152.6 million, a 35.4 million increase from last year. The increase is attributable to expanded IT and cybersecurity efforts and to pay for increased workplace rights training and the new Office of Employee Advocacy. This bill includes $642 million for the Architect of the Capitol which will help continue to reduce the backlog of deferred maintenance of House buildings. The Office of Compliance receives $4.6 million, which will help address the workplace harassment problem on Capitol Hill. This bill also included funding for the Library of Congress’ Visitor Experience, which ultimately will allow the Library to be a more valuable resource for all of our constituents when they visit Washington DC. The Botanic Garden receives $100,000 above their request to continue support for one employee for the urban agriculture initiative.
05.07.2018	Youngstown, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) released the following statement regarding the tentative agreement between the Mahoning County Engineers and Teamsters Union, members of the Union will vote on the agreement later this week: “I am pleased that the Mahoning County Engineers and the Teamsters Union were able to sit down and work through the weekend to make this tentative deal possible. Thank you to the leadership in both parties for keeping an open mind and open dialogue to work towards a solution that was equitable for everyone. I also want to acknowledge and thank County Engineer Pat Ginnetti for all his hard work during this process,” said Congressman Ryan. “While we are not yet through the finish line, I applaud the progress made today and look forward to the union vote and getting back to work.”
05.04.2018	Lordstown – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) released the following statement regarding TJX’s recent announcement. The company is applying for the zoning application for the original development site in Lordstown: “I want to thank TJX’s leadership for their perseverance and commitment to this community. Equally, I want to commend our local economic development agencies, state and local elected officials and our civic leaders for their unwavering support and resiliency on this significant project,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Good things happen when we work together as a team – with a common mission and goal. While we still have a lot more work to do, this latest development shows we have put this project back on the path to success. The overwhelming support from the vast majority of local residents and people in the Mahoning Valley is enormous and we plan to demonstrate that we remain united in our effort to bring this investment and these jobs to the Valley.”
05.04.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) released the following statement regarding the trade negotiations between the U.S. and China: “As this week’s trade negotiations with China come to a close, President Trump and his Administration need a comprehensive, long-term strategy in protecting American workers and industries from China’s harmful practices. China has been cheating the United States for years, and it’s time President Trump steps up and turn his talk into action. China has a long-term economic plan, a 20-year plan, a 30-year plan, a 50-year plan, 100-year plan. We're operating in a 24-hour news cycle, and we better have a larger strategy as we start to take on this huge economic force. The men and women of my District deserve a clear path forward. The President has injected uncertainty in our nation’s economy and strained our relationships with our allies. The American people are waiting to see if this President will keep his promise of putting America first,” said Congressman Ryan.
04.30.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) has cosponsored the Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act (FRAC Act), a bill that establishes common sense safeguards to protect groundwater from risks associated with the oil and gas drilling technique “hydraulic fracturing,” better known as “fracking.” The FRAC Act would require disclosure of the chemicals used in fracking fluids and would remove the oil and gas industry’s exemption from the Safe Drinking Water Act. “There’s no denying that there are immense climate-related benefits and economic benefits associated with the transition to natural gas, particularly here in Ohio. Even still, we must be vigilant ensuring that such benefits do not come at the expense of the health and wellness of our communities. We as lawmakers must make sure natural gas recovery is done in a way that puts community health front and center,” said Congressman Ryan. “I am proud to support this common sense legislation to promote the responsible development of natural gas.” The FRAC Act would: Require disclosure of the chemical constituents used in the fracturing process. Disclosure would be to the state, or to EPA, but only if EPA has primary enforcement responsibility in the state. The disclosures would then be made available to the public online. Proprietary chemical formulas are protected under the bill – much like the way Coca-Cola must reveal the ingredients of Coke, but not their secret formula; oil and gas companies would have to reveal the chemicals but not the specific formula. This bill does include an emergency provision that requires these proprietary chemical formulas to be disclosed to a treating physician, the State, or EPA in emergency situations where the information is needed to provide medical treatment. Repeal a provision added to the Energy Policy Act of 2005 exempting the industry from complying with the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA), one of our landmark environmental and public health protection statutes. Most states have primacy over these types of wells, and the intent of this Act is to allow states to ensure that our drinking water is safe. EPA would set the standard, but a state would be able to incorporate hydraulic fracturing into the existing permitting process for each well, and so this would not require any new permitting process.
04.30.2018	Youngstown, OH – At a reception held today at the Butler Institute of American Art, Congressman Tim Ryan announced the winners of the Congressional Art Competition from Ohio’s 13th Congressional District. Students from 12 high schools across the district entered 144 pieces of original artwork. "I think it is important to recognize the importance of the creative arts in the lives of our students and encourage them to participate in artistic endeavors as often as possible," said Congressman Ryan. "These students are risk takers and put their work out there to be judged. It’s that level of boldness that drives innovation and moves our communities forward, whether you are an artist, engineer, architect, or city planner. These men and women will help Northeast Ohio and the nation reshape its future. I am proud of every participant, and as always, impressed with the caliber and thoughtfulness of their work.”Best of Show: Kenneth Vigorito, Niles McKinley High School His artwork will hang in the Capitol Tunnel in Washington, D.C. for eleven months.2nd Place: Robert Malkovits, Ursuline High School3rd Place: Norrine Burch, Ursuline High SchoolHonorable Mentions: Andrew Burnfield, Warren Harding High School Brooklyn Honzu, Warren Harding High School Christopher Petrus, Boardman High School Elsie Kibler, Ursuline High School Emily Smith, Howland High School Gia Lopez, Warren Harding High School Gianna Allesse Jones, Warren Harding High School Geneva VanHorn, TCTC Karissa Nichols, TCTC Karleigh Huber, Ursuline High School Kaylee Suarez, Mineral Ridge High School Kelsey Namola, Warren Harding High School Mason Wiseman, TCTC Riley Timms, Boardman High School Sarah Skiver, Ursuline High School Tori D'Angelo, Mineral Ridge High School The Congressional Art Competition was created in 1982, and hundreds of thousands of high school students have participated at the local level. This nationwide art competition gives local students an opportunity to showcase their talents, and a chance to have their entry displayed as part of an eleven-month exhibit in the Cannon Tunnel that leads to the U.S. Capitol building in Washington, D.C. ###
04.27.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) released this statement following a phone call with GM CEO Mary Barra on Thursday April 26, 2018. “Yesterday evening, I spoke directly with GM CEO Mary Barra to discuss the loss of GM Lordstown’s 2nd shift, potential ways to mitigate the impact on our community, and the long-term future of GM Lordstown. I expressed my deep disappointment in GM’s decision to lay-off workers, but I came away from the conversation confident GM Lordstown will continue to play an important role in the company’s long term success. CEO Barra reiterated that GM has invested more than half a billion dollars into Lordstown over the past ten years, and I expressed my desire to work cooperatively with GM to ensure further investments are made. At the end of the conversation, I encouraged CEO Barra to visit GM Lordstown and see firsthand the world-class work being done in our community.” On April 24, 2018 Congressman Ryan wrote a letter to GM CEO Mary Barra urging the consideration of Ohio's ShareWork program for employees impacted by the recently announced layoffs at GM Lordstown. Congressman Ryan issued this statement following the Lordstown announcement on April 13, 2018. ###
04.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) joined the House Ohio Democratic Delegation this week to urge Governor John Kasich to protect constituents’ health insurance from rising costs and efforts by the Trump Administration to undermine health care markets. The letter was cosigned by Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11), and Congresswoman Joyce Beatty (OH-03). “We write to urge you to reject partisan attacks on the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and continue to work across the aisle to protect our constituents’ health insurance,” the Members wrote in the letter. “Bipartisan solutions that reduce out of pocket health care costs for working families must be developed. Since the passage of the ACA, many Republicans have worked on a national and state level to undermine or eliminate the law despite the fact that millions already receive coverage through the ACA, including 940,627 individuals in Ohio, comprised of 710,500 Medicaid beneficiaries and 230,127 Marketplace enrollees.” “There are a number of actions at the state level that would help increase coverage and improve the affordability of care for families in our state that will also counteract the harmful work of Republicans in Washington,” the Members continued. “[we] urge you to work to implement some or all of these options to help ensure stability and lower costs for our residents.” The Members listed four potential options in their letter: Protect state residents by limiting the sale of sub-par junk insurance plans. Boost coverage (and lower costs) by increasing outreach, enrollment and marketing. Protect consumers by ensuring their health plan provides essential health benefits, like hospital care, mental health and substance use disorder treatment, or prescription drug coverage. Use existing Affordable Care Act (ACA) authority to craft a reinsurance program to reduce health insurance premiums. A full copy of the letter can be found here.
04.26.2018	Washington, DC – Today, an amendment submitted by Congressmen Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Bill Keating (R-MA) to H.R.4, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization, passed the House of Representatives. It is expected that H.R. 4 will pass the House later in the week. The Ryan-Keating Amendment would direct the FAA to lead coordinated efforts between government, educational institutions, labor organizations, and the private sector to regularly evaluate workforce priorities and ensure aviation maintenance training programs are preparing the next generation of the aviation workforce to fill the types of jobs the industry needs. According to Boeing, from now until 2036, North American commercial airlines will need over 100,000 new technicians. An example of the type of institution that is preparing new technicians to meet this urgent industry need and would benefit from the amendment is the Pittsburgh Institute of Aeronautics - Youngstown and Warren Campus. The Ryan-Keating Amendment also directs the U.S. Government Accountability Office to make evidence-based recommendations on how to best strengthen and expand aviation training programs by addressing public funding, equipment, and other needs. “I am pleased that our amendment to strengthen aviation technician training was included in the FAA reauthorization bill. This legislation will be beneficial to programs across the United States, including at Pittsburgh Institute of Aeronautics - Youngstown and Warren Campus by better preparing enrolled students to fill the jobs that are needed by the aviation industry. Public-private partnerships are critical to our long-term economic success, and this new collaboration between government, educational institutions, and the private sector will be a shining example of what we can do when we come together to transform our economy, and our communities,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “As the scarcity of aviation personnel becomes ever more critical, aviation maintenance educators are encouraged by the proposed Ryan-Keating Amendment, which would provide the necessary coordination among all parties impacted by this labor shortage. In order for technical schools like Pittsburgh Institute of Aeronautics – Youngstown branch campus to attract students into this highly specialized field which often escapes the notice of the traveling public, we must be able to provide students with the best possible educational facilities, updated equipment and technology which mirrors the aircraft systems currently in use, a means to inform youth and displaced workers about aviation careers, ample flexibility by the FAA to ensure the most current and effective course content and delivery, and funding for students in educational programs which support the future aviation workforce,” said Suzanne Markle, President and CEO of the Pittsburgh Institute of Aeronautics. “There are good union jobs out there for the taking and we need to make sure our people are trained and ready to fill them,” said Congressman Keating. “Aviation maintenance is a field where we know high-skilled, well-paying jobs will be available in the near future and with aviation safety constantly evolving, programs like the ones at Cape Cod Community College need to have our full support. It is so important that Cape Cod Community College and others have spearheaded these programs with their limited resources to prepare our students for these jobs. We need to do our part to make it easier for these programs going forward so that even more can emerge around the country and so that current programs can access the information and resources they need to keep up with industry needs so our aviation maintenance program graduates are ready to hit the ground running.”
04.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) released the following statement in response to Admiral Ronny Jackson’s decision to withdraw his nomination as United States Secretary of Veterans Affairs: "I have spent the last 16 years working on behalf of our nation’s veterans by helping to reform the VA and bringing innovative programs to help deal with the stunningly high suicide rates. The President’s inability to take this process seriously is a slap in the face to our nation’s veterans. Nominating your personal physician to run the VA, without proper vetting and experience, is irresponsible. The President needs to put his phone down, stop tweeting, and start taking care of the people's business,” said Congressman Ryan.
04.25.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Ben Carson’s plan to slash housing assistance and impose arbitrary work requirements for low-income Americans. “How the same Cabinet Secretary who abused taxpayer funds by spending $31,000 on a new dining room table could so casually slash federal housing assistance for low-income Americans including seniors, people with disabilities, veterans, and children is beyond my ability to comprehend. Ineffective work requirements and drastically increased rental rates will only make people less secure in their housing. A safe place to call home is critical for every family in the United States. The government has a vested interest in making sure every American has a roof over their head and should be working tirelessly to make that a reality – not intentionally making it harder. I wish Secretary Carson and President Trump were as committed to housing solutions for all Americans as they were to cutting taxes on billionaires and corporations. We are the wealthiest nation on earth, there’s no excuse for this,” said Congressman Ryan.
04.24.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) today urged General Motors to consider ShareWork Ohio, a unique layoff aversion program offered by the Ohio Department of Jobs and Family Services (ODJFS) for employees impacted by the recently announced layoff of the second shift at GM Lordstown. In a letter sent to GM Chairman and CEO Mary Barra, Congressman Ryan highlights ShareWork Ohio’s outside-the-box approach to retaining valued employees until demand can return to the industry market. As stated on the ODJFS website, “A SharedWork Ohio plan, the participating employer reduces affected employees’ hours in a uniform manner. The participating employee works the reduced hours each week, and the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services (ODJFS) provides eligible individuals an unemployment insurance benefit proportionate to their reduced hours.” “The workforce at the General Motors Lordstown Complex is world class and I know they take great pride in the product that rolls off the line at Bailey Road. I am proud to call many of them friends and family, and our community is proud of the hard work they do each and every day. If GM believes the market will rebound, it would be in GM’s best interest to retain a highly trained workforce,” Congressman Ryan wrote. Full text of the letter can be found below and here: ### April 24, 2018 Mary T. Barra Chairman & CEO General Motors Company 300 Renaissance Center Detroit, MI 48243 Re: General Motors Lordstown Complex Dear Ms. Barra, I write to express my grave concerns regarding the recent announcement to the planned job cuts that would eliminate the second shift and end with approximately 1,300 employees being permanently laid off along with the transfer of 60+ salaried workers to other General Motors (GM) plants. I’m sure this was a very difficult decision, one that will deeply impact the lives of workers, their families and our communities. In addition to the workers at the Lordstown complex, the domino effect to Tier I and Tier II suppliers will have far-reaching implications. However, this could be significantly mitigated with a unique layoff aversion program offered by the Ohio Department of Jobs and Family Services (ODJFS) called SharedWork Ohio. SharedWork Ohio takes an outside-the-box approach to retaining valued employees until demand can return to the industry market. Although not a silver bullet, it would create a softer landing for everyone impacted by the declining compact car market. From ODJFS’ website, “SharedWork Ohio is a voluntary layoff aversion program. It allows workers to remain employed and employers to retain trained staff during times of reduced business activity. Under a SharedWork Ohio plan, the participating employer reduces affected employees’ hours in a uniform manner. The participating employee works the reduced hours each week, and the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services (ODJFS) provides eligible individuals an unemployment insurance benefit proportionate to their reduced hours.” Programs like SharedWork Ohio help companies weather cyclical storms. My office has been in touch with the staff at ODJFS regarding the criteria and benefits of the program, which I believe to be meaningful and significant. I would be happy to help facilitate a discussion between General Motors and ODJFS to carefully study the program benefits so that GM could consider the merits of uniformly reducing affected workers hours in lieu of a mass workforce reduction as you propose. The workforce at the General Motors Lordstown Complex is world class and I know they take great pride in the product that rolls off the line at Bailey Road. I am proud to call many of them friends and family, and our community is proud of the hard work they do each and every day. If GM believes the market will rebound, it would be in GM’s best interest to retain a highly trained workforce. Furthermore, if GM is considering retooling the facility to produce another model, maintaining trained employees would help the company ramp up production ahead of the competition. Time is of the essence so I stand ready to assist at your convenience. I appreciate your attention to this matter and would be interested to receiving your thoughts on this critical issue. Should you have any questions or concerns, please don’t hesitate to contact me or my staff anytime. I’ll await your response. Sincerely, Tim Ryan
04.20.2018	Lordstown – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) released the following statement in response to HomeGoods decision to not build their distribution center in Lordstown, Ohio. “I am very disappointed that TJX HomeGoods, a Fortune 500 company, has felt it necessary to drop their plans to locate in Lordstown. Throughout many conversations I have had with Village of Lordstown officials and HomeGoods’ leadership, I have strongly supported this project since the very beginning. I have also said publicly that these opportunities don’t come along very often and we need to do all we can to land this investment. Upon learning of this news, I immediately informed HomeGoods’s leadership that I want to work with them to find suitable alternative sites in our area for the thousands of jobs and millions of dollars of payroll that HomeGoods would bring to our region. We cannot let this opportunity slip away. I will do everything in my power to help HomeGoods find a home here in the Mahoning Valley. “I also want to thank Mayor Hill and his team for his determination to help make this project a reality. While things didn’t work out, it was not from a lack of effort on his part. I look forward to continuing to work with him and the Village of Lordstown on other potential economic development opportunities that they may have.”
04.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) joined the entire Ohio Congressional delegation in urging the Pentagon to locate the F-35 Hybrid Product Support Integrator (HPSI) Organization at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. In a letter to U.S. Secretary of the Air Force, Heather Wilson, the lawmakers said Wright-Patt is uniquely qualified to handle the new mission, and it could mean an additional 400 plus jobs in Ohio. Wright-Patt’s highly qualified workforce support the Air Force’s critical national security mission and the base is further supported by the broader Dayton defense community, which is full of engineering and contracting specialists. Lawmakers made the case that Dayton’s research industry and universities have long been the center for developing, acquiring, and sustaining the next level of air superiority to counter US adversaries and, therefore, locating HPSI at Wright-Patt would be the best choice for the Air Force. “Wright-Patterson Air Force Base is well-equipped to take on this challenge. The experience and expertise of the men and women at WPAFB make them highly-qualified to ensure that the integrated acquisition process for the F-35 program is successful. Our workforce, combined with our space, housing, parking, and low cost of construction, makes WPAFB the prime location for the F-35 HPSI Organization,” says Congressman Ryan. The lawmakers who signed the letter to the Air Force include: Rep. Tim Ryan, Senator Sherrod Brown, Senator Rob Portman, Rep. Mike Turner, Rep. Steve Stivers, Rep. Dave Joyce, Rep. Bob Gibbs, Rep. Bob Latta, Rep. Steve Chabot, Rep. Warren Davidson, Rep. Bill Johnson, Rep. Jim Renacci, Rep. Joyce Beatty, Rep. Marcia Fudge, Rep. Marcy Kaptur, Rep. Brad Wenstrup, and Rep. Jim Jordan A copy of their letter to the Air Force appears below: Dear Secretary Wilson, We write to express our support to locate the F-35 Hybrid Product Support Integrator (HPSI) Organization at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB). Based on the criteria used during the strategic basing process, we believe WPAFB’s workforce makes the base the logical location for HPSI. The basing process specifically requires acquisition professionals who are Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act certified with tactical fighter support experience, and WPAFB’s workforce of engineers, programs managers, logistics managers, and contracting personnel would provide HPSI with an exceptional staff. WPAFB is a unique base with the Air Force Material Command and the Air Force Life Cycle Management Center (AFLCMC) headquarters. The men and women who work there have mastered specific skills related to the acquisition of all major airframes and the research and development of engines, and munitions. This highly technical workforce is distinctively qualified to oversee the integrated acquisition process for the F-35 program. The men and women at WPAFB support the Air Force’s national security mission and are supported by the broader Dayton defense community’s exceptional engineering and contracting specialists. Just south of WPAFB is the Midwestern campus for the Defense Acquisition University, that and Dayton’s research industry and universities have long been the center for developing, acquiring, and sustaining the next level of air superiority to counter our adversaries and locating HPSI at WPAFB makes sense. One of the other criteria listed in the basing process is foreign partner presence and foreign military sales expertise. The Air Force Security Assistance and Cooperation Directorate (AFSAC), housed within AFLCMC, carries out the critical foreign military sales mission. Our allies rely on the qualified program managers and acquisition personnel at who execute these strategic programs. Additionally, HPSI would benefit from being co-located with the Air Force Research Lab (AFRL), which has developed critical technology integral to the F-35’s success. AFRL together with the AFLCMC, would be able to provide critical science and technology assistance and insights to HPSCI’s acquisition workforce. WPAFB exceeds key criteria listed in the strategic basing process, specifically the capacity requirements for space, housing, and parking, and the relative low cost of construction. The greater Dayton region is home to exceptional educational programs that continue to develop engineering and acquisition professionals, who would enhance HPSI. Thank you for your consideration of WPAFB as the possible location for the F-35 Hybrid Product Support Integrator. Sincerely, U.S. Representative Tim Ryan U.S. Representative Mike Turner U.S. Representative Marcy Kaptur U.S. Representative Jim Jordan U.S. Representative Bob Latta U.S. Representative Steve Chabot U.S. Representative Bill Johnson U.S. Representative Bob Gibbs U.S. Representative Steve Stivers U.S. Representative Jim Renacci U.S. Representative Brad Wenstrup U.S. Representative Joyce Beatty U.S. Representative David Joyce U.S. Representative Warren Davidson U.S. Representative Marcia Fudge U.S. Senator Sherrod Brown U.S. Senator Rob Portman
04.19.2018	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan applauded the release of an additional $26 million in grant funds from the Department of Health and Human Services to help combat the opioid addiction crisis in Ohio. This funding, which is the second of two rounds provided from the 21st Century Cures Act, will be provided through the Opioid State Targeted Response (STR) grants administered by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). The $485 million worth of aid will be distributed across all 50 states to help combat this ongoing crisis. “I was extremely proud to be able to secure this funding, which is badly needed by countless families in my district and across the United States. I am reminded every day in my community of the horrible suffering that this epidemic is inflicting on our neighbors, relatives, and friends. I fought for passage of this important legislation, as well as to include this aid for opioid addiction treatment into the 21st Century CURES Act because it was the right thing to do. Combating this crisis will take serious resources that the Federal Government can provide. We will only be able to fight this together, and this funding will help communities continue to push back against this horrible epidemic, and help start rebuilding neighborhoods that are suffering,” said Congressman Ryan. The funding originates from the 21st Century CURES Act, legislation that originally passed in an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote in December 2016. It provided $1 billion over two years to fight the heroin and prescription drug epidemic. This aid supplements additional resources allocated through the Comprehensive Addiction & Recovery Act (CARA). Congressman Ryan understand the importance of continuing this essential funding. He is a cosponsor of the Opioid and Heroin Abuse Crisis Investment Act, which would fund the Opioid State Targeted Response grants until Fiscal Year 2023.
04.17.2018	Ravenna, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) announces a $329,969 grant for Northeast Ohio to develop and preserve affordable housing, revitalize and sustain neighborhoods, and create jobs. This grant was provided by NeighborWorks America and distributed to Ravenna non-profit Neighborhood Development Services (NDS), a member of the National NeighborWorks network. NDS serves most of Northeast Ohio, including the entire Portage County area, Ashtabula, Columbiana, Geauga, Lake, Mahoning, Medina, Portage, Stark, Summit, Trumbull, and Wayne Counties as well as portions of West Virginia. “I applaud Northeast Ohio and NDS for receiving this important funding. The grant will go a long way in the advancing of the communities' economic and affordable housing needs,” said Congressman Ryan. “Public-private partnerships have been essential to revitalizing our neighborhoods, and Northeast Ohio will greatly benefit from the continued work of NDS.” “With the generous support of Congress, NeighborWorks America is proud to award these grants to NeighborWorks network organizations throughout all fifty states, Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia to provide affordable housing opportunities, build strong neighborhoods, and create jobs. Through our strong investment in our network, we franchise excellence throughout our nearly 250 organizations,” said NeighborWorks America’s Interim President and CEO Jeffrey Bryson. “A strong indicator of the value of these grants is that in fiscal year 2017, we leveraged $59 dollars of other investments for every $1 provided by Congress to NeighborWorks America – resulting in a direct investment of $8.3 billion in communities across the country.” NeighborWorks America is a public nonprofit organization, established by Congress in 1978 as the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Public Law 95-557). It supports and enhances a network of nearly 250 local and regional nonprofit partner NeighborWorks organizations that bring together residents, private-sector business leaders, and representatives of local government to create communities of opportunity. For 40 years, NeighborWorks America has supported local solutions to community development and affordable housing in urban, suburban and rural by providing NeighborWorks organizations financial and grant support, training, technical assistance, organizational assessments, technology tools and other services. Neighborhood Development Services, Inc. (NDS) is a private 501(c)(3) agency and an exemplary rated chartered NeighborWorks America Member. As a full service nonprofit developer, general contractor, property manager, and service provider, NDS has become a strong force in both residential and commercial real estate development. NDS’s programs include housing rehabilitation, its oldest service.
04.14.2018	Washington, DC -- Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to the most recent United States’ airstrikes against Syria. France and the United Kingdom also took part in the strikes. "The most recent military strike against Syria sends another message that our nation and our allies will not stand by while international law is broken by the use of chemical weapons against innocent men, women, and children. After yet another unforgivable attack by Assad against his own people, it is clear that Russia and Iran share responsibility for these crimes against humanity by continuing military support for the Assad regime. It is fitting that the President's recent comments finally seem to admit that. "As a member of the Defense Appropriations Committee, I anticipate receiving a full intelligence briefing regarding these coordinated strikes soon. While I feel last night’s actions were appropriate, any long-term operation must take place in consultation with Congress. It has been almost a year to the day since President Trump first struck the Assad regime in response to another chemical attack, but he has yet to settle on a comprehensive Syria policy. In fact, just days ago he took to twitter to call for a complete withdraw from operations there—an announcement that very well may have emboldened Assad in his decision to attack innocent civilians with chemical weapons."It is critical that Congress and the American people be provided with a clear plan for how to work with our allies to end the Syrian civil war, remove Assad from power, and restore stability to the region. We need our allies now more than ever, and we need a thoughtful, steady-handed Commander in Chief to lead them. "Finally, I want to thank the brave men and women of the U.S. Military who carried out these orders under extremely dangerous circumstances. I’ve been honored to spend time with our troops in the region, and can say with confidence they are the best our country has to offer."
04.13.2018	Lordstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan makes the following statement in response to GM Lordstown announcement: “I am deeply disappointed by today’s GM Lordstown announcement,” said Congressman Ryan. “While low gas prices encourages the decline of compact car like the Chevy Cruze, President Trump’s intention to weaken fuel economy standards is putting his thumb on the scale in favor of the larger cars and SUV’s made elsewhere. He claimed he was against the government picking winners and losers, and yet he goes against the very region and state that helped put him in office. As these layoffs are implemented, I will do everything in our power to assist the affected employees and their families get through this difficult time.” Today’s announcement follows an April 2, 2018, Final Determination by President Trump’s EPA on the Appropriateness of the Model Years 2022-2025 Light-Duty Vehicle Greenhouse Gas Emissions Standards under the Midterm Evaluation – incentivizing the sale of larger cars and SUVs. This was not a surprise as Secretary Pruitt has questioned climate scientists, eliminating the Clean Power Plan, and now working to roll back fuel economy standards that are reducing carbon pollution. Read more here.
04.12.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) today released the following statement in response to reports that President Trump is considering rejoining the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). “Candidate Trump was clear: the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) was based on the failed trade model of the past, and bad for hardworking families in communities across Ohio and the United States. It was a big reason why he won many states like mine. Now, as President, Donald Trump is considering one of his biggest flip-flops yet. One that would take us backwards – rejoining the TPP. There is a right way and a wrong way to negotiate trade deals that benefit all, and TPP is not it. It would be a betrayal to the families struggling to make ends meet. He should stand by his word and keep the United States out of this broken trade deal,” said Congressman Ryan.
04.10.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) led a Congressional Delegation in urging the House Agriculture Committee to create permanent baseline funding and continue funding for several important programs in the 2018 Farm Bill. “Despite their size and funding status, these programs are driving innovation and growth throughout our farm and food system. They support training and education for our nation’s future farmers and ranchers, create value-added marketing opportunities to increase farm income, ensure USDA programs reach and address the concerns of farmers of color, provide funding for critical research on organic farming, grow local and regional food markets to increase farm income and promote public health, and improve the nutrition outcomes of our food assistance programs,” said Congressman Ryan. “Many help to foster entrepreneurial agriculture and small business development, which is sorely needed during a time when farm incomes are threatened by low commodity prices and rural communities continue to battle population loss. These programs do all of this and more with just 0.5 percent of the farm bill budget.” Currently, the status of the Farm Bill negotiations for 2018 has stalled, but Congressman Ryan continues to push for this important legislation. The letter sent to Ranking Member Peterson was signed by Reps. Ryan, Sanford Bishop (D-GA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Mary Kaptur (D-OH), Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), and Mark Pocan (D-WI). The programs include: Beginning Farmer and Rancher Development Program, CRP- Transition Incentives Program, Value-Added Producer Grants, Rural Microenterpreneur Assistance Program, Outreach and Assistance for Socially Disadvantaged and Veteran Farmers and Ranchers, Organic Agriculture Research and Extension Initiative, Organic Production and Market Data Initiative, Organic Certification Cost-Share Program, Farmers Market and Local Food Promotion Program, Food Insecurity Nutrition Incentives Program, Rural Energy for America Program, Specialty Crop Block Grant Program, and Specialty Crop Research Initiative. The full letter can be found here.
04.06.2018	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) announces that the Portage Area Regional Transportation Authority (PARTA) will receive a $2,668,750 grant from the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) of the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT). The grant will fund the construction of an indoor storage facility aimed at improving working conditions and vehicle maintenance. The current facility does not have the capacity to store the vehicles. “Ohioans depend on the Portage Area Regional Transportation Authority to get where they need to go every day. This grant will go a long way in improving the operations in Portage,” said Congressman Ryan. “It’s important that we continue to invest in our transportation services, and I’m proud that Portage Transportation Authority secured this grant.” “PARTA is deeply grateful for the award of funds to support a bus storage facility, a project on PARTA’s master plan since 2009. Indoor vehicle storage is an important element for extending the useful life of fleet vehicles given the weather conditions in Northeast Ohio. In addition, the new storage facility will enhance and protect the FTA’s investment in new CNG transit buses beginning in 2018. Safe, reliable transit service depends on many factors, and FTA’s investment PARTA and Portage County will improve working conditions for employees and service for our riders,” said PARTA Manager Claudia Amrhein. The purpose of the grant, from the FTA’s Bus and Bus Infrastructure Program, is to assist in the financing of buses and bus facilities capital projects, including replacing, rehabilitating, purchasing or leasing buses or related equipment, and rehabilitating, purchasing, constructing or leasing bus-related facilities. Information regarding this award can be found here.
04.05.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) issued the following statement in response to President Trump deploying the National Guard to the U.S.-Mexico Border: “If the President were as interested in securing our borders as he is in self-aggrandizing publicity stunts and stoking animosity toward our allies and neighbors, then he’d let the experts dictate where investments are needed to efficiently and affordably accomplish our border security goals. He might discover that past experiences with putting National Guard troops on the border have proven to be very costly and only takes them away from other pressing needs. I look forward to the day when the President finally decides to take this issue seriously,” said Congressman Ryan.
04.04.2018	Youngstown, OH — Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) made the following statement regarding Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt’s announced set back for auto manufacturing jobs and public health. On April 2, 2018 the U.S. EPA issued the Final Determination on the Appropriateness of the Model Years 2022-2025 Light-Duty Vehicle Greenhouse Gas Emissions Standards under the Midterm Evaluation. This was not a surprise as Secretary Pruitt has questioned climate scientists, eliminating the Clean Power Plan, and now working to roll back fuel economy standards that are reducing carbon pollution. “The Trump Administration is setting Ohio back and putting GM Lordstown at risk. The current vehicle standards save consumers money, create thousands of manufacturing jobs, and reduce our dependence on foreign oil that is wrecking our public health and environment.” “Ohio is ranked second in light vehicle models, with 95,000 Ohioans working in the auto industry with an average salary of $61,500 annually — and the GM Lordstown-made Chevy Cruze is leading the charge. A recent report shows that $76 billion in new and promised investment in our auto plants since 2008, including over $10 billion in new and promised investment in Ohio. Our bottom line is jobs and we can’t afford Trump’s policies that hurt one of our most important local industries. By encouraging automakers to invest more in large trucks and SUVs, President Trump is putting the Mahoning Valley's economy at risk. Trump is putting ideology ahead of jobs and Ohio jobs.”
03.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) today announced $594,230 from the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to be awarded to Kent State University. The award will fund a project titled, “Unpacking Emotion Inflexibility and Prospective Prediction of Affective Disease.” “I applaud Kent State University for securing this federal grant. The funds are important to promoting and advancing research that is crucial to the growth of our community and society. As co-chair of the Military Mental Health Caucus, this project is particularly significant to me because the research focuses on mental health,” said Congressman Ryan. “I want to commend Dr. Karin G. Coifman, Associate Professor of Psychology at Kent State University and the principle investigator for the project, for her commitment and dedication to mental health research and congratulate her on this grant award.” “This project aims to better understand risk for common psychiatric disorders, like depression and anxiety, that often develop following stressful life events and take a considerable toll on the individual. Specifically we are studying the ways in which individuals process emotions in the early weeks and months following a significant injury or accident in relation to other known risk factors,” said Dr. Karin G. Coifman. “During this 5 year grant, each participant in our research will be followed for 18 months so that we can begin to better understand how early emotional responses following an injury can impact psychological health and adjustment long-term. The results of this research may help to improve not only our ability to detect risk for psychiatric diseases, but may also contribute to more effective treatments for patients in need.” The National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) is the lead federal agency for research on mental disorders. NIMH is one of the 27 Institutes and Centers that make up the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the largest biomedical research agency in the world. NIH is part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Information regarding this award can be found here.
03.26.2018	Washington – Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13) announced a National Science Foundation (NSF) award totaling $293,943 to Youngstown State University. The award will fund a project entitled “RUI: Mechanistic Elucidation of the Formation of Secondary Building Units in Metal Organic Frameworks via Tandem Spectroscopic and Synthetic Approaches.” “This award for Youngstown State will help the university meet the demands of its research and further advance innovation and discovery in chemistry,” Rep. Ryan said. “Investments in metal-organic frameworks will contribute to overcoming barriers to large scale industrial implementation. I’m proud to have helped Youngstown State get this award and look forward to seeing what their research finds.” “We are honored and excited to receive this prestigious NSF grant to study the mechanism of metal-organic framework (MOF) formation. MOFs have shown promise in applications such as carbon dioxide capture and water purification. However, large-scale synthesis/production has been a barrier for commercialization. The benefits for unraveling the mechanism of formation for these materials includes enhanced rational design of new MOFs, improved techniques for large-scale syntheses, and increased industrial and commercial relevance. This project has the potential to impact our community by not just advancing science, but also providing opportunities for our students to perform research, explore the frontiers of chemistry, and engage with the community,” said Dr. Douglas Genna, principal investigator of the project and Assistant Professor at Youngstown State University. The abstract and other information regarding this award can be found here.
03.22.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan announced a series of successful efforts to secure funding for policy priorities that will positively impact the 13th Congressional District, Ohio, and the United States. These funds and report language were secured as a part of the Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus Appropriation Funding Agreement, which passed the House today and funds the Federal Government through September 30, 2018. “I am proud to have been able to leverage my position as a Ranking Member one of the House Appropriations Committee’s subcommittees to make sure our area receives the investments it needs to remain economically competitive so that our citizens can have good schools, good paying jobs, and secure retirements. From this position, I am also able to impact policy at a national level. I will always be proud to fight for our servicemembers and my constituents. The funding and program language outlined here is a direct result of those efforts,” said Congressman Ryan. “The United States is at a critical juncture in its history. These investments mark a recognition that the old way of doing things are not always the best. Our healthcare and food systems are broken, and need to be retooled to incentivize heathy eating. Too many American families are struggling to make ends meet, and in communities across the country, skilled jobs are unfilled because of a lack of training. We need to do better. This bill helps fund important programs that will ensure the American people, and our workforce are ready for the 21st century.” The following program funding levels and report language were priorities of Congressman Ryan that were requested and ultimately passed as a part of the omnibus bill. Agriculture $30 million for grants to purchase kitchen equipment, including salad bars in schools. Congressman Ryan introduced the Salads Bars in Schools Expansion Act and has been a leader in advocating for more schools to purchase salads bars to allow students access to healthier foods. $35 million for Sustainable Agriculture Research and Education (SARE). Commerce Justice Science $275.5 million for Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Program. Congressman Ryan sent a letter earlier this year urging President Trump to protect COPS funding in his budget. This increase is $54 million mora than the FY 17 enacted level. $492 million for the Office on Violence Against Women. Defense TechBelt Additive Manufacturing Industrial Supply Chain Program - $20 million program to survey and build up the domestic defense industrial base for additive manufacturing in the TechBelt area. $10 million for a Federal-to-State to technology transition program to bridge the gaps that exist between early-stage technology and operational capability. $19.5 million to improve simulated pilot training for 5th Generation Aircraft Increase in funding for directed energy research Study of Non-opiate Pain Management methods. Homeland Security Firefighter programs are funded at $700 million, an increase of $5 million each for the equipment program and the SAFER staffing program. These grants have had an enormous impact on Ohio’s 13th Congressional District, allowing smaller departments to protect their communities. Interior $10.4 million for the National Asian Carp Control Plan. $300 million for Great Lakes Restoration Initiative Labor HHS Education Approximately $3.7 billion in new resources to address the opioid crisis, including SAMHSA state grants, NIH research, CDC surveillance, and HRSA workforce training. Congressman Ryan has led the effort in urging the Appropriations Committee and Administration to increase funding for these important programs. $37.1 billion for the National Institutes of Health. This bill included language that would urge the NIH to promote a study on the reducing teacher stress and promoting wellbeing by implementing stress management programs. This language is correlated to Congressman Ryan’s legislation, the Teacher Health and Wellness Act, which would create a pilot study at the NIH to reduce teacher stress. This bill included language that encourages Maker Education and an increase in makerspaces in school. Congressman Ryan recently discussed this issue at SXSW and his bill the 21st Century Shop Class Act, which increases funding for maker education and makerspaces, and increases training for teachers in this subject area. $35 million for CDC Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention. This bill included language that would support an increase in evidence-based strategies to address chronic absenteeism, which Congressman Ryan has prioritized and promoted the need to increase chronic absenteeism program in his legislation, the Chronic Absenteeism Reeducation Act. Military Construction and Veterans Affairs The Omnibus includes bill language on improving security access gates at Air Force Reserve bases such as YARS. The Omnibus includes Congressman Ryan’s Veteran Wellness Act, which provides grants to Veteran Service Organization’s to create upgrade facilities into health and wellness centers and to promote complementary and integrative wellness programs. Transportation HUD $1 billion for National Infrastructure Investments (TIGER) grants. Congressman Ryan has been a leader in pushing for an increase in the TIGER grant program. Just recently, the City of Akron received a $8 million TIGER Grant for the downtown promenade. $300 million for Community Development Block Grants. These formula grants help promote the economic development of communities across the country. Congressman Ryan announced $7,598,549 in CDBG federal grants to the 13th District to help revitalize our region.
03.22.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today voted in favor of bipartisan legislation to fund the United States Federal Government for the remainder of the fiscal year, ending on September 30, 2018. “Our constituents send us to Washington to keep the government up and running, as efficiently as possible. Yet, under Republican control, Congress required six short term funding bills for this fiscal year alone. This lack of reliability hinders our ability to make critical, long-term investments in our national defense and domestic programs, and should be unacceptable to every American who expects Congress to work in their best interest. Fortunately, after weeks of painstaking negotiations, a bipartisan agreement was finally reached and voted on to fund the government far above the President’s proposed levels. I supported this imperfect legislation because, through its flaws, it moved the needle forward on a number of critical priorities for Ohio’s 13th Congressional District, and the nation as a whole,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “It is my sincere hope that this moment marks an end to the unpredictability of the Republican’s governing tactics. As representatives of the American people, we have much work to do to combat the opioid epidemic, secure the hard-earned pensions of Teamsters and coal miners, and fix our broken immigration system in a way that reflects our belief that our diversity is our greatest strength. Passing this funding bill was a start, but much remains left to do.” The $1.3 trillion spending bill boosts investments in our national defense and critical domestic programs – with Democrats pushing for and delivering a significant federal investment for the middle class. Some examples of these investments include: A $3.3 billion in increase in funding for fighting the opioid and mental health epidemic, including $2.8 billion more for treatment, prevention, and research within the Department of Health and Human Services. “I was heartened to see new, much-needed funding to combat the opioid addiction epidemic. In my state of Ohio, fatal drug overdoses have been the leading cause of accidental death since 2007. There’s not a zip code exempt from the pain and suffering this crisis is capable of inflicting. Turning the tide of addiction is going to take a sustained stream of resources and attention. Congress cannot lose sight of that and it is entirely appropriate that it is reflected in this agreement,” said Congressman Ryan. Additional domestic investments include: A $2.37 billion increase for the Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG) program, which will help expand access to affordable child care to more working families. Significant increases in funding for federal programs that help make higher education more affordable for middle-class Americans. A more than $10 billion increase in real money in public infrastructure to create real jobs. $380 million to states for election technology grants to secure election systems and voting infrastructure from Russian hackers seeking to influence our elections. “The American middle class has been hit hard by stagnant wages and insufficient investment for too long. Congressional Democrats held firm in our insistence that any new funding agreement must have a boost in spending for programs that will give hardworking families a shot at a better quality of life. That commitment is evident in the bill passed today through an expansion of the Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG) program, and additional money for federal programs that help make college affordable, that strengthen the middle class, and relieve the financial strain placed on families,” said Congressman Ryan. The omnibus package also holds true to our promise to our men and women in uniform: An additional $2 billion for rebuilding and renovating deteriorating VA hospitals, clinics, and homes. A 2.4% pay raise for military personnel. “I take my role on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee very seriously. I am honored to use my position to continue to ensure that our military has the resources it needs to defend our nation. Our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, and Marines are the best in the world, and I am committed to ensuring they remain supported by the best equipment and training in the world. That same level of dedication extends to retired servicemembers. Their sacrifices must be honored when they are back home. Anything less than the best care available is unacceptable,” said Congressman Ryan.
03.22.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) today urged President Trump to implement steel and aluminum tariff with additional exemptions for European Nations. “I was pleased to see your Administration give this issue the attention it deserves, as well as the announcement to impose a 10 percent tariff on aluminum imports, a 25 percent tariff on steel, and to exempt Canada. However, I was disappointed that exemptions for European countries were not included. Implemented in a practical and measured approach, these tariffs will help protect our steel and aluminum industries from further decline. But without these additional exemptions for our important allies, our steel industry will experience chaos and job loss,” wrote Congressman Ryan. “I’ve heard these same concerns from my own constituents. My friends at USW Local 3523 in Warren are worried about the potential impact on Thomas Strip Steel Corporation’s sister plant in Europe and how it could have employment ramifications locally. I will be the first to say that we need to be tough on trade, but we also need to be smart. We can do both,” Ryan added. You can read the full text of the letter here or find it below: Dear Mr. President: I write today in strong support of the American steel and aluminum industries, and I welcome your announcement of tariffs under Section 232 National Security Investigation of Imports of Steel and Aluminum. Many of the hardworking men and women I represent in Ohio’s 13th Congressional District have been negatively impacted by unfair trade practices. The illegal dumping of foreign steel and aluminum into American markets has hurt the economy of my state and deserves action that will level the playing field. I was pleased to see your Administration give this issue the attention it deserves, as well as the announcement to impose a 10 percent tariff on aluminum imports, a 25 percent tariff on steel, and to exempt Canada. However, I was disappointed that exemptions for European countries were not included. Implemented in a practical and measured approach, these tariffs will help protect our steel and aluminum industries from further decline. But without these additional exemptions for our important allies, our steel industry will experience chaos and job loss. There is no doubt that China, Russia, and other countries have oversaturated the global market, intentionally undermining our national manufacturing industry and defense industrial base. These tariffs brought against the worst actors will have a profound strengthening effect on America’s steel and aluminum industries, put people back to work, rebuild America’s infrastructure, and ensure a strong national security apparatus. Without exempting countries and allies – like European nations -- that are dedicated to the same labor and environmental standards as the United States, the implementation has the potential to do significant damage to the economy. These tariffs will only succeed and provide stability to the market if the trading partners that work with the United States are exempted. An unnecessary trade war that damages our relationships with our global trading partners will not create a stronger manufacturing base, but chaos in the industry. I know firsthand what happens when a local plant is forced to close and workers lose a reliable source of income. It has a deep ripple effect that impacts every member of the community. I urge your Administration to implement these tariffs in a measured manner, and properly exempt European countries that adhere to the highest labor and environmental standards. I appreciate your attention to this critical issue, and I look forward to continuing to work with you to protect steelworkers and the aluminum industry in Ohio and across the country. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
03.19.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) released the following statement in response to the Trump Administration’s newly released plan to combat the opioid addiction epidemic. “Opioid addiction is destroying lives, disrupting families, and destabilizing communities. As Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus, I see the impact this epidemic has in every zip code across the country each and every day. It is imperative that we work to stem this tide. I am dismayed that it took President Trump nearly 18 months to present a comprehensive plan to confront this crisis -- which is growing worse by the day -- but am pleased that it includes several ambitious, evidence-based reforms that have been recommended by public health experts for many years. “However, I am disappointed that President Trump felt the need to include an extremely dangerous policy that would encourage prosecutors to seek the death penalty against drug dealers. I am all for punishing drug dealers, but I’m not for pushing the death penalty. Right now we have a system that continues to execute innocent people. Our system is flawed in a big way. Democrats and Republicans agree on so much when it comes to the opioid epidemic. President Trump is picking an unnecessary fight over a contentious issue and sidetracking from the real work that must be done. We need to move forward on this immense issue, but this part of the President’s policy is an intentional distraction that will have little impact on healing our country’s opiate epidemic. “There is no doubt that we all must do more to create a future where fewer people are becoming addicted to opioids and people are no longer dying of overdoses. That is why I also call on Congress to pass CARA 2.0, legislation that I introduced, that will provide a number of new resources for treatment and law enforcement, as well as an additional $1 billion in funding to our communities. I am proud to be a part of this bipartisan legislation and will continue to fight to make sure crisis remains a top priority for Congress and this Administration,” said Congressman Ryan. The Trump Administration’s plan calls for a variety of needed reforms and initiatives such as: Making it easier for Medicaid enrollees to access in-patient addiction treatment Raising the threshold for federal reimbursement of opioid prescriptions Expanding the availability of Naloxone Encouraging states to opt into a drug-monitoring database that allows doctors to identify patients who have been seeking multiple opioid prescriptions from a variety of providers Many of these needed provisions have been championed by Congressman Ryan in Congress for years. Congressman Ryan has been a long-time cosponsor of the Breaking Addiction Act and the Medicaid Coverage for Addiction Recovery Expansion Act which would remove harmful and outdated limits on Institutions for Mental Diseases (IMD’s) accepting Medicaid reimbursements for addiction treatment services. Congressman Ryan also is an original cosponsor of the Prescription Drug Monitoring Act. This legislation would push states to enhance their use of prescription drug monitoring programs, a powerful tool to prevent opioid abuse. While most states have a monitoring program, they vary widely in how they are used and operated. The legislation would focus federal resources on improving the state monitoring programs’ effectiveness. States would provide access to their prescription drug monitoring program data to other states, prescribers would check the database before prescribing powerful medications like opioids, and pharmacies would submit prescribing information within 24 hours
03.15.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) introduced the bipartisan Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) 2.0 with Representatives Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), Ann Kuster (D-NH), and Tom MacArthur (R-NH). Congressman Ryan was a leader in the passage of CARA, which was signed into law in 2015, and provided a bipartisan, comprehensive response to the prescription drug and heroin epidemic. CARA 2.0 builds on this effort and will authorize approximately $1 billion in new funding to fight the opioid war and increases criminal penalties on manufacturers that don’t report suspicious orders or keep proper diversion protocols in place. In addition, it provides enhanced first responder training and funds the expansion of specialized courts to treat our nation’s ill-served Veterans. This bill serves as the House companion to bipartisan legislation recently introduced by Senator Rob Portman (R-OH) and Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI). “As Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus, I understand the damage the opioid epidemic causes in neighborhoods in every zip code each and every day. In my state of Ohio, fatal drug overdoses have been the leading cause of accidental death since 2007. Heroin and opiate addiction is destroying lives, disrupting families, and destabilizing communities. It is imperative that we work to stem this tide. CARA 2.0 will provide a number of new resources for treatment and law enforcement, as well as an additional $6 billion in funding to our communities. I am proud to be a part of this bipartisan legislation,” said Ryan. “The opioid epidemic is devastating families and communities in New Hampshire and across the country,” said Kuster. “This isn’t a partisan issue; both Republicans and Democrats recognize the need for a comprehensive response that matches the seriousness of this emergency. The legislation we’re introducing today will help to direct critical resources to those on the frontlines of the opioid epidemic and boost innovative, creative programs that will help tackle this crisis.” “The opioid epidemic has been tearing apart communities in Tennessee for well over a decade,” said Blackburn. “President Trump recently declared a national health emergency and it is time for Republicans and Democrats in Congress to follow suit. My heart breaks for families that have lost loved ones because of the opioid scourge. CARA 2.0 will provide an onslaught of resources in addition to the $6 billion of new opioid funding for prevention and law enforcement services that I both fought and voted for as part of the budget agreement President Trump signed into law last February. I’m pleased to have bipartisan cosponsors and to once again be working with my colleagues in the House and Senate.” “The opioid crisis is devastating communities and families across the United States at an alarming rate. More than 174 Americans die as a result of overdose every day. As co-chair of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, I’ve heard countless stories from those who have lost loved ones because of substance abuse. Congress must do more to help our communities. This bipartisan legislation will provide critical resources to combat this epidemic and I’m grateful members of both parties have come together to support it,” said MacArthur. CARA 2.0 Policy Changes: Three day limit on initial opioid prescriptions for acute pain as recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Makes permanent Section 303 of CARA which allows physician assistants and nurse practitioners to prescribe buprenorphine under the direction of a qualified physician. Allows states to waive the limit on the number of patients a physician can treat with buprenorphine so long as they follow evidence-based guidelines. There is currently a cap of 100 patients per physician. Require physicians and pharmacists use their state PDMP upon prescribing or dispensing opioids. Increases civil and criminal penalties for opioid manufacturers that fail to report suspicious orders for opioids or fail to maintain effective controls against diversion of opioids. Creates a national standard for recovery residence to ensure quality housing for individuals in long-term recovery. CARA 2.0 Authorization Levels: $10 million to fund a National Education Campaign on the dangers of prescription opioid misuse, heroin, and lethal fentanyl. $300 million to expand first responder training and access to naloxone. $300 million to expand evidence-based medication-assisted treatment (MAT). $20 million to expand Veterans Treatment Courts. $100 million to expand treatment for pregnant and postpartum women, including facilities that allow children to reside with their mothers. $60 million to help states develop an Infant Plan of Safe Care to assist states, hospitals and social services to report, track and assist newborns exposed to substances and their families. $10 million for a National Youth Recovery Initiative to develop, support, and maintain youth recovery support services.
03.08.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) and Akron Mayor Dan Horrigan today announce $8 million grant for the City of Akron from the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT). This funding, as part of the Transportation Infrastructure Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant, goes toward the construction of Phase II of the Downtown Akron Promenade. This project focuses on renovating Akron’s Main Street Corridor by improving public health and safety, promoting economic competitiveness, and creating a more walkable community. “The City of Akron is on the move through the redevelopment of downtown, and the leadership of Mayor Horrigan to bring new businesses and partnerships to the region. I thank Mayor Horrigan for his hard work to create a vibrant Akron,” said Congressman Ryan. “This project will transform the City of Akron, creating a safer, more walkable community where businesses can thrive. I am proud to have been able to use my position in Congress to help secure this funding and help build a 21st Century Akron.” “As we continue our efforts to ensure Akron is a thriving city, we thank Congressman Ryan and our federal delegation for their continued support of Akron and the redevelopment of our Downtown. This grant will allow us to realize the vision of the recently completed Downtown Redevelopment Plan of connecting nodes of activity all the way up to and including the Northside District. Once completed, the revitalized Downtown Promenade will welcome workers, pedestrians, artists, business owners, and innovators to our great City and enable us to breathe new life into our urban core and our neighborhoods,” said Mayor Dan Horrigan. In September, Ryan urged USDOT Secretary Elaine Chao for funding for this project. Read the full letter sent to Secretary Chao here. Today’s announcement follows a $5 million federal grant Ryan helped secure in 2016 to complete Phase I of the project. Read more about Phase I grant here. January 19, 2018, Ryan announced a joint Partnership between eBay and the Cities of Akron and Warren, Ohio. The “Retail Revival” program has selected over 100 local businesses to participate in a 12-month partnership to help them harness the power of technology and eBay’s global marketplace. The Ohio 13th Congressional District is the first in the country to be chosen as a pilot for this program. The 245,000 eBay sellers in Ohio generated $938 million in eBay sales last year. Read more here. February 21 2018, Ryan led a delegation of 12 venture capitalists on a tour of the Midwest, stopping in Akron, Ohio to meet with Mayor Horrigan, local business leaders, and other city stake holders to discuss how to bring investment to the City of Akron. Today’s announcement is critical to making Akron an even more attractive place to invest in. Read more here.
03.06.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Tim Ryan joined the Ohio Congressional Delegation in urging the Secretary of Defense James Mattis to select Camp Ravenna as the East Coast Missile Defense site. The letter, led by Ryan, was signed by Ohio’s two senators and 14 of Ohio's Members of Congress: Letter can be viewed here: https://billjohnson.house.gov/UploadedFiles/Ohio_Delegation_Camp_Ravenna_Support_Letter_3.05.2018.pdf “Camp Ravenna’s location, infrastructure, and the surrounding local workforce make it the prime location to build the East Coast Missile Defense Site,” Tim Ryan said. “My tour of Camp Ravenna last month further reinforces my confidence in our ability and readiness to take on this national security endeavor. It’s critical that we act now to upgrade our nation’s defenses, and Northeast Ohio is the perfect place to accomplish that.” “I am pleased to join leaders and groups across Ohio supporting the effort to bring the East Coast Missile Defense site to Camp Ravenna,” Bill Johnson said. “A new missile defense site is more strategically important than ever in a world with emerging threats like Russia China, Iran, and an ever more obstinate North Korea - and I’m glad President Trump is serious about taking all steps to defend the homeland. I will continue to impress upon the Department of Defense that Camp Ravenna is the best location to host the East Coast Missile Defense site.” “The threat to our homeland from ballistic missiles is constantly growing,” said Senator Rob Portman. “We must continue to bolster our defenses and adding a third ground-based interceptor site is an important part of that strategy. Camp Ravenna is uniquely suited to house that site – providing a cost-efficient and effective location to help defend us. I’ve continued to make that case to the Defense Department and I look forward to hearing their assessment soon.” “Ohioans take great pride in the mission at Camp Ravenna, and this is an opportunity to build on this site’s contributions to our national defense,” said Senator Sherrod Brown. “Placing the missile defense interceptor site here would give the Missile Defense Agency access to Ohio’s world-class workforce, and its proximity to Akron and Youngstown would help ensure timely construction by Ohio workers.” “Northeast Ohio appreciates the leadership of the Ohio delegation in making sure the Department of Defense understands the unique suitability of Camp Ravenna to host the East Coast Missile Defense site,” said Vito Abruzzino, Executive Director of the Eastern Ohio Military Affairs Commission. “The country needs an East Coast site to protect the nation and its citizens from new and resurgent potential ballistic threats.” “We are grateful for the bipartisan leadership of our delegation to harness the potential of the Ravenna site. Ravenna represents the lowest cost, easiest to construct option for the Department of Defense. I am pleased to join Chamber members and leadership across the state to support this effort. The economic impact of a Ravenna selection will be felt all across Northeast Ohio, and has the support not only of the local business community, but of the State legislature, as well as civic and labor leaders across the region,” said James Dignan, President of the Youngstown/Warren Regional Chamber. The Eastern Ohio Military Affairs Commission (EOMAC) was formed in 2015 to preserve and promote the value of military operations between Cleveland and Pittsburgh, with an emphasis on the Youngstown Air Reserve Station and Camp Ravenna Joint Training Center.
03.05.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) today urged President Trump to implement steel and aluminum tariff on bad actors, not key allies – calls for exemptions for key allies like Canada. “Implemented in a practical and measured approach, these tariffs will help protect our steel and aluminum industries from further decline. There is no doubt that China, Russia, and other countries have oversaturated the global market, intentionally undermining our national manufacturing industry and defense industrial base. These tariffs brought against the worst actors will have a profound strengthening effect on America’s steel and aluminum industries, put people back to work, rebuild America’s infrastructure, and ensure a strong national security apparatus,” wrote Congressman Ryan. You can read the full text of the letter here or find it below: President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: I write today in strong support of the American steel and aluminum industries, and I welcome your recent announcement of tariffs under Section 232 National Security Investigation of Imports of Steel and Aluminum. Many of the hardworking men and women I represent in Ohio’s 13th Congressional District have been negatively impacted by unfair trade practices. The illegal dumping of foreign steel and aluminum into American markets has hurt the economy of my state and deserves action that will level the playing field. I was pleased to see your Administration give this issue the attention it deserves, as well as the announcement to impose a 10 percent tariff on aluminum imports and a 25 percent tariff on steel. Implemented in a practical and measured approach, these tariffs will help protect our steel and aluminum industries from further decline. There is no doubt that China, Russia, and other countries have oversaturated the global market, intentionally undermining our national manufacturing industry and defense industrial base. These tariffs brought against the worst actors will have a profound strengthening effect on America’s steel and aluminum industries, put people back to work, rebuild America’s infrastructure, and ensure a strong national security apparatus. However, I was disappointed and concerned that your remarks did not include exemptions for countries and allies--like Canada--that are dedicated to the same labor and environmental standards as the United States. The implementation of these tariffs will only succeed and provide stability to the market if the trading partners that work with the United States are exempted. An unnecessary trade war that damages our relationships with our global trading partners will not create a stronger manufacturing base, but chaos in the industry. I know firsthand what happens when a local plant is forced to close and workers lose a reliable source of income. It has a deep ripple effect that impacts every member of the community. I urge your Administration to implement these tariffs in a measured manner, and properly exempt countries that adhere to the highest labor and environmental standards. I appreciate your attention to this critical issue, and I look forward to continuing to work with you to protect steelworkers and the aluminum industry in Ohio and across the country. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
03.05.2018	Akron, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) helped kick-off the eBay Retail Revival Program today in Akron, Ohio. The half-day event onboarded sellers onto eBay’s global platform through workshops with mentors, networking opportunities, and time for one-on-one support from eBay’s Global Customer Experience team. In partnership with the City of Akron and the City of Warren, eBay selected over 100 local businesses to participate in the program for 2018 and receive 12 months of support and resources to learn best practices for selling on the eBay platform. Warren, OH based businesses were also eligible to participate in the program – 16 Warren businesses are participating. The 245,000 eBay sellers in Ohio generated $938 million in eBay sales last year. To watch Ryan's opening remarks at Kick-Off Event click HERE eBay also plans to work with the City of Akron and City of Warren to promote the larger community and its sellers across the eBay platform, and partner with local organizations for ongoing trainings throughout the year. Businesses will receive exclusive support and resources to help them get started selling on the eBay platform including a comprehensive training program that will teach the eBay selling basics, a dedicated customer service support team to answer any questions the new sellers may have, a complimentary eBay store subscription, and an eBay selling starter kit. Ryan and participating business owners from Warren, Ohio Congressman Ryan announced the joint partnership between eBay and the cities of Akron and Warren on January 19, 2018. Congressman Ryan previously hosted eBay officials in his Warren, Ohio office on November 21, 2018in his Washington, DC office on December 20, 2018 and strongly urged them to select Akron and Warren for the Retail Revival program. eBay Background: Reach: 170M active buyers in 190 markets worldwide. The majority of eBay’s sales are made with the “Buy It Now” option. No auctions necessary. 88% of items on eBay are listed at a fixed price – with no bidding necessary, 81% of items sold are new and unused. On the go: 61% of GMV involves a mobile touchpoint and the eBay app has had 391 million downloads across the globe. Global reach: With a growing international presence, 57% of eBay’s revenue is from outside the U.S.
03.05.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Tim Ryan was joined in the fight against fentanyl trafficking by U.S. Sen. John Kennedy (R-LA), who introduced the Stop Trafficking in Fentanyl Act in the U.S. Senate. U.S. Rep. Tom Rooney (R-FL) is also cosponsoring the measure. “We are losing too many of our friends, neighbors, and relatives to this destructive drug epidemic. I am proud to join a bipartisan group of my colleagues in introducing this important legislation that will help get Fentanyl off the street,” said Rep. Ryan. “We must respond to this crisis from all sides by improving coordination to reduce the number of drugs available, while also increasing and expanding access to treatment for those who are suffering.” The Stop Trafficking in Fentanyl Act amends the Controlled Substances Act to reduce the amount of fentanyl needed to invoke the most serious trafficking penalties for an individual trafficking or illegally manufacturing the drug. Doctors typically prescribe fentanyl – a synthetic opioid – in small quantities to terminally ill patients who are in tremendous pain. Unfortunately, drug traffickers are giving this highly lethal drug to drug abusers, resulting in overdoses and deaths. Fentanyl is incredibly dangerous and deadly, even in doses as small as a grain of sand. Fentanyl addiction is causing a skyrocketing of preventable deaths, with more Americans dying in 2016 of a drug overdose than in any previous year. “What drug traffickers are creating with fentanyl is devilishly deadly. They’re playing Russian Roulette with people’s lives by mixing heroin with a drug that is even more deadly than heroin itself,” said Sen. Kennedy. “Drug addicts don’t even realize the fentanyl is there because it looks just like heroin. We are at war in this country with opioid addiction. This bill puts us one step closer to winning that war and protecting our citizens.” “Without action, these overdose figures are only going to get worse,” Rooney said. “Under the current law, the threshold amount to invoke penalties is not appropriate with the strength of the drug. Individuals who are trafficking and profiting off fentanyl need to be adequately prosecuted in the hopes of stopping the alarming rising rate of fatal overdoses.”
02.28.2018	Youngstown, OH – Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Dan Kildee (D-MI) today announced the first new investments resulting from the Comeback Cities Tour and venture capital relationships. Robert Wolf of 32 Advisors pledged $100,000 to Flint, Michigan’s 1000 Startup Initiative. Patrick McKenna of High Ridge Venture Partners had previously committed $75,000 from the first venture capital group visit in February 2017. Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Ro Khanna (D-CA) recently returned from leading a delegation of venture capitalists on a tour of heartland cities to learn what steps can be taken to get more investment flowing to companies in midwestern cities. Patrick McKenna of High Ridge Venture Partners pledged an investment of $50,000 in Youngstown, Ohio’s Valley Growth Ventures (VGV) “micro venture capital” fund, which began in 2016 as a partnership between the Youngstown Business Incubator (YBI), Mahoning Valley Economic Development Corporation (MVEDC), The Youngstown State University Research Foundation, Mercy Health and the Tech Belt Energy & Innovation Center (TBEIC). In addition, he committed another $25,000 in direct investment in an emerging private startup technology company in the Mahoning Valley region of Ohio. Robert Wolf of 32 Advisors pledged $100,000 to Flint, Michigan’s 1000 Startup Initiative. “I am proud that the Comeback Cities Tour is already paying dividends. Every stop -- whether it was the Youngstown Business Incubator and America Makes in Youngstown, the Bounce Innovation Hub in Akron, the transformative Detroit Foundation Hotel, or Skypoint Ventures in Flint -- produced eye-opening discussions that engaged everyone involved. I am confident that the partnerships that were forged and ideas exchanged will continue to pay dividends as the relationships grow into partnerships of trust. This is just the beginning and we will work hard to continue to build these relationships. Our goal is for our young people to have opportunity here and to connect those out of work to growing industries that provide high wages and security,” said Congressman Ryan. “I am committed to expanding economic investment in older, industrial cities like Flint so that we can create more good-paying jobs and raise wages for workers. I was proud to host the Comeback Cities Tour in my hometown, bringing together venture capitalists from around the country and community stakeholders to highlight that our region is open for business. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues Tim Ryan and Ro Khanna in the coming months to build relationships and create more opportunity for mid-Michigan,” said Congressman Kildee. "The Tour provided a great opportunity for the Youngstown startup community to share ideas with an esteemed group of coastal VC's. It provided a real platform for collaboration and ongoing relationships. The partnerships that we are developing will be unbelievably beneficial to the region." said Ernie Knight, Managing Director of Valley Growth Ventures. The group met with local business people, elected officials and incubators in each city with the goal of having venture capitalists learn about the startup activity and investment opportunities outside the coasts. Together, these venture capitalist’s firms make more than $14 billion in investments, but with little experience investing in companies outside a few major cities. Some companies their funds have backed include: SpaceX, Airbnb, Uber, Alibaba, Spotify, Facebook, Flexport, Zendesk, Twitter, Snap, etc. The tour took place February 21 – 23 and made stops in Youngstown, Akron, Detroit, Flint and South Bend.
02.27.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) today invited Delta to relocate their corporate headquarters – which houses 5,700 employees – to Northeast Ohio. Yesterday, Delta was attacked on twitter by the sitting Lieutenant Governor of Georgia who threatened to punish them through tax legislation for their decision to sever ties with the National Rifle Association (NRA). “Any state would be lucky to call itself the home of Delta headquarters and your 5,700 employees. Continually recognized as one of the world’s most admired companies for your dedication to your customers and employees, Delta would be a valuable asset to any region. In Northeast Ohio, we understand the importance of integrity, hard work, and earning your reputation. That is why I urge you to consider Northeast Ohio—a leader in aeronautics, advanced manufacturing, and technical innovation—for your corporate headquarters. Given the lack of support from Georgia lawmakers, I encourage you to explore our region—one that better reflects your corporate character,” wrote Rep. Ryan. Northeast Ohio’s quality of life, robust infrastructure, and strong communities would make it a perfect lay for Delta to lay down roots. You can read the full text of the letter here: or find it below. Ed Bastian Chief Executive Officer Delta Air Lines, Inc. P.O. Box 20706 Atlanta, GA 30320-6001 Dear Mr. Bastian: I applaud Delta Air Line’s recent decision to end its contract for discounted fares with the National Rifle Association (NRA). This decision, given Delta’s influence within corporate America and with the American people, has set an important precedent in the ongoing national debate over gun safety reform. As the country continues to grieve and reflect on the tragedy that took place in Parkland, Florida, I am encouraged by the leadership shown by Delta and other companies that have since ended their relationship with the NRA. No company should be punished or threatened for taking a principled stand in the name of corporate social responsibility, which is why I am disappointed in the criticism Georgia Lieutenant Governor Casey Cagle directed at Delta in recent days. It was unmerited and entirely inappropriate. Any state would be lucky to call itself the home of Delta headquarters and your 5,700 employees. Continually recognized as one of the world’s most admired companies for your dedication to your customers and employees, Delta would be a valuable asset to any region. In Northeast Ohio, we understand the importance of integrity, hard work, and earning your reputation. That is why I urge you to consider Northeast Ohio—a leader in aeronautics, advanced manufacturing, and technical innovation—for your corporate headquarters. Given the lack of support from Georgia lawmakers, I encourage you to explore our region—one that better reflects your corporate character. Northeast Ohio would be proud to have Delta Air Lines headquartered in our region and support the work of a company willing to stand firm by its beliefs. Thank you for your leadership, and I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
02.26.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today responded to the Saturday release of the House Intelligence Committee Democratic memo. The memo was in response to an earlier version released by the Republican members of the committee, who intentionally omitted, obscured, and lied about facts to muddy the waters and confuse the American people. “Saturday’s release of the House Intelligence Committee Democrats’ memo serves to illustrate just how much Congressional Republicans are willing to distort the truth to undermine Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election. Congress should be standing united in the face of a foreign threat to the very foundation of our democracy. Instead, the GOP is shamefully muddying the waters to confuse the American people and slander the brave men and women of the FBI and other intelligence and law enforcement agencies. They must stop this selfish behavior, work to protect the integrity of our elections, and allow Mueller’s investigation to continue without interference,” said Congressman Ryan. Here are some of the material facts the Republican Majority deliberately omitted that have been clarified by the Democrats: The FBI supplied information to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court that Russia might be colluding with Trump campaign associates. DOJ provided the Court with a comprehensive explanation of Russia’s election interference including evidence that Russia courted another Trump foreign policy advisor, George Papadopoulos, and that Russian agents previewed their dissemination of information damaging to Hillary Clinton. Russian assistance would, as we would learn in the Papadopoulos plea, take the form of the anonymous disclosure of thousands of Hillary Clinton and DNC emails. The FBI had ample reason to believe that Carter Page was acting as an agent of a foreign power based on his history, including the fact that he had previously been a target of Russian recruitment, his travel to Russia, and other information. The renewals of the FISA were also appropriate and based on new information obtained by law enforcement. The FBI did disclose that those who employed Christopher Steele were likely motivated to discredit Trump’s presidential campaign. The Bureau used proper masking procedures so as not to reveal the identities of U.S. persons not subject to the FISA, but made clear that the likely purpose was opposition research. Contrary to the Majority’s assertions, the FBI and DOJ did not use a Yahoo News article to corroborate Steele; it was referenced alongside another article and a letter Page wrote to then FBI Director James Comey to inform the court of Page’s public denials. The memo is available here and here. A fact sheet from HPSCI Minority is here. The accompanying letter sent by the Department of Justice is here.
02.16.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement after Special Counsel Mueller released new indictments against 13 Russian nationals and 3 Russian entities for violating U.S. criminal laws by conspiring to defraud the United States by interfering with U.S. elections and political processes: “There is no doubt that Russia set out to, and succeeded at, meddling in our democratic process. Today’s new indictments illustrate that with startling clarity. While our President still refuses to acknowledge the seriousness of the threat we’re facing, our intelligence community and the ongoing work of Special Counsel Mueller have confirmed that – far from a hoax – our democracy itself was attacked. Not only did meddling occur, efforts are still underway to influence upcoming elections and create further discontent,” Said Congressman Ryan. “American democracy has always stood as a beacon for freedom around the world. Russia is determined to destabilize our democracy and sow chaos in our country. They want to show democracy cannot work, and that strongmen, oppression, and cronyism are the only paths forward. We cannot allow that. It’s not just the security of our elections at stake, but the viability of democracy itself. I urge President Trump and Congressional Republicans to get serious about this threat and take immediate action to safeguard our elections from foreign interference.”
02.12.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to President Trump’s second budget proposal. “Until just days ago, a Republican Congress and a Republican President spent the first four months of this fiscal year stumbling through five temporary funding bills, utterly failing the most basic duty of Congress – keeping the government open. The idea that the current majority party in the House could follow through on anything even resembling regular order as it relates to setting a budget for the Federal Government is laughable. The only function the President’s budget proposal serves is to remind us how completely out of whack his priorities are for the American people. He would add over $7 trillion dollars to the national deficit over the next decade -- $984 billion in the next year alone, and stick the middle class with the bill. It is a non-starter. I stand ready to get to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle on a realistic budget that properly funds our defense and important programs families rely on,” said Congressman Ryan.
02.09.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today voted for the bipartisan budget agreement. “This bipartisan budget agreement is far from perfect, but it represents an important step forward in breaking the gridlock that has paralyzed Congress for far too long and hurt the American people. The agreement includes billions of dollars more for critical defense and domestic programs that range from keeping our troops abroad equipped with the latest technology, to making sure our students can thrive and learn here at home. I was pleased that this deal made provisions for some additional resources to tackle the opioid and mental health crises, as well as a path forward to resolve the pension crisis being faced by so many hard working Americans. “But I am dismayed that it took 5 temporary funding bills this fiscal year alone to get to this point. Republican majorities in both Houses of Congress are failing the most basic tasks of governing everywhere you look -- from setting a budget, to protecting the most vulnerable populations among us. GOP leadership, and Speaker Ryan in particular, should be ashamed of their refusal to bring a clean DREAM Act to the Floor. Instead, they’ve resisted the overwhelming will of the American people and tarnished our moral standing by threatening to break our promise to these young people. With the business of funding the government underway, I expect the Speaker to follow his Senate colleagues lead and immediately hold a DACA vote in the House,” said Congressman Ryan. Other highlights of the agreement include an additional $57 billion over two years in new funding for domestic programs — $26 billion for the remainder of this fiscal year, which began Oct. 1, and $31 billion for fiscal year 2019. $20 billion of that new money would go toward infrastructure initiatives. The deal also contains much needed disaster relief funding for those communities impacted by recent natural disasters. The deal also provides: $6 billion to fight the opioid epidemic and fund mental health initiatives $4 billion to repair and rebuild veterans’ health clinics $2 billion to fund medical research at the National Institutes of Health A full decade of CHIP extension A special select committee to tackle pension solvency
02.07.2018	Washington, DC – Yesterday, Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH), Rep. Paul Mitchell (R-MI), and Rep. Lloyd Smucker (R-PA) introduced H.R. 4942, the Building U.S. Infrastructure by Leveraging Demands for Skills (BUILDS) Act, which encourages partnerships to prepare the American workforce to modernize and expand the nation’s aging infrastructure systems. The American Society of Civil Engineers recently graded the U.S. infrastructure system a D+ based on its capacity, condition, funding, future need, operation and maintenance, public safety, resilience, and innovation. A proposed $1 trillion infrastructure investment would create an estimated 11 million new American jobs. Even without a significant investment, though, infrastructure industries are already struggling to meet workforce demands. The BUILDS Act promotes industry or sector partnerships made up of local businesses and industry organizations, workforce boards, and education and training providers to support workforce training programs in infrastructure-related jobs. “Our nation’s infrastructure, once the envy of the world, has been in a state of decline for decades. The unacceptable condition of our country’s airports, bridges, and roads is unsustainable, but presents us with an opportunity to get Americans back to work. The BUILDS Act encourages meaningful partnerships between state and local government and private enterprise to create job training programs to ensure we can fill the jobs necessary to expand and modernize the country’s infrastructure systems. I am proud to support this bill and will continue to strive for significant, lasting investment in our infrastructure, and the hardworking men and women of the U.S. workforce who make it all run,” said Congressman Ryan. “The American workforce must be ready to meet our nation’s expanding infrastructure needs,” said Congressman Mitchell. “During President Trump’s State of the Union Address, he stressed an overhaul of our nation’s aging infrastructure as a national priority, as well as the need to prepare Americans to fill the millions of jobs that will be created by a major rebuilding of our infrastructure. The BUILDS Act helps achieve this goal through partnerships that encourage industry growth, and improve worker training, placement, and retention. With a background in workforce development, I’ve seen how these programs can change someone’s life. It’s time to upgrade our nation’s infrastructure, close the skills gap, and get Americans back to work.” “One of my priorities this Congress has been to expand opportunities for work-based learning, and this legislation builds on that effort. As Congress and the administration develop a plan to improve our nation’s again infrastructure, this apprenticeship grant program will help create the pipeline of workers needed to rebuild America’s roads, highways, and bridges. I am proud to introduce this bill with Reps. Paul Mitchell and Tim Ryan, and I am thankful for their work to help provide family-sustaining jobs and support our growing economy,” said Congressman Smucker. Summary: The BUILDS Act will: Provide grants to industry or sector partnerships that encourage industry growth and competitiveness and collaborate to improve worker training, retention, and advancement in targeted infrastructure and transportation industry clusters Connect businesses and education providers to develop classroom curriculum to complement on-the-job learning Train managers and front-line workers to serve as mentors to people in the work-based learning programs Offer resources and career awareness programming to recruit and retain individuals for workforce training programs Provide support services to ensure workers are successful from pre-employment to placement in a full-time position Companion legislation has been introduced in the Senate by Senators Portman and Kaine. To read the BUILDS Act, click here.
02.07.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today voted against the most recent inadequate GOP stopgap funding bill. It is the 5th short-term funding bill of this Fiscal Year. “The House just passed another short term funding bill. If it feels like we’ve been here before, it’s because we have. Four times this fiscal year, to be exact. Funding the Federal government just weeks at a time cannot be the new normal. It is a failure of the most basic duties Congress was elected to do – to keep the government running. I voted NO on another failed Republican attempt at governance because allowing the continued deferment of our sworn duty hurts investment in our national security, and in the wellbeing of our constituents. It is that simple. I cannot in good conscience be a part of that,” said Congressman Ryan.
02.06.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today praised the passage of legislation to overhaul the House of Representative’s sexual and workplace harassment policies following recent revelations that multiple lawmakers engaged in misconduct. “The revelations of recent months have made it clear that the current process for handling sexual harassment and assault claims in the United States Congress is outdated and structured to protect wrongdoers. I expect better, and I know the American people expect better. That is why I was proud to cosponsor the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 Reform Act, which passed the House today. This is not a partisan issue. It does not matter if you are a Democrat or a Republican. Every allegation must be taken seriously, and we must have zero tolerance for this kind of behavior. No one should feel afraid, threatened, or silenced in their workplace. Congress has a responsibility to lead by example. I hope the Senate picks this up quickly to set such an example,” said Congressman Ryan. The Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 Reform Act (H.R. 4822) amends the Congressional Accountability Act by streamlining the dispute resolution and reporting process and strengthening workplace protections of employee rights and confidentiality. It increases the transparency of the Office of Compliance by requiring it to publish online information on final awards and settlements related to sexual harassment and discrimination. This information includes the violation being claimed, the office involved, and the amount paid. Most notably, it holds Members personally responsible for any sexual harassment award or settlement that must be repaid to the Department of Treasury account. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee’s Legislative Branch Subcommittee, Congressman Ryan is working to ensure more resources and funding are made available to both the House Ethics Committee, the Chief Administrative Officer, and the Office of Compliance so they can better handle harassment cases thoroughly and efficiently.
02.02.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13), Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11), and Congresswoman Joyce Beatty (OH-03) issued the following joint statement regarding the U.S. Department of Labor’s efforts to put forth a harmful rule that would make it legal for employers’ to take a portion of workers earned tips. Additionally, the Labor Department has come under fire for reportedly shelving an internal government study that detailed how the proposed rule would harm workers who earn tips, like servers and bartenders, while also asserting in their rollout materials they were unaware of how the rule would impact workers. “We are extremely concerned with the lack of transparency and efforts to misinform the public regarding this pending Department of Labor rule,” said the Members. “The way the rule is currently worded does nothing to protect the hard-earned pay from workers across Ohio and our Nation, in fact, it takes us backward. The U.S. government, especially the Department of Labor, should stand on the side of our workers, not help greedy companies reach into their pockets for their hard-earned wages. We urge this Administration to scrap this rule and go back to the drawing board.” According to a study from the Economic Policy Institute, American workers would lose $5.8 billion annually and Ohio workers could lose an estimated $224 million if the Department of Labor’s rule is finalized.
02.02.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to President Trump’s decision to release discredited GOP House Intelligence Committee Memo. “Republicans have been disingenuous about this memo and its implications from the start. President Trump’s own FBI Director released a stunning statement calling into question the accuracy of the memo, while the President’s own Justice Department has called its release ‘reckless’ and his own FBI said they have ‘grave concerns’ about the memo’s omissions and accuracy. Our nation’s highest law enforcement agencies have told the President that he should not release this discredited memo. They have said it harms our national security. But this is just one more example of Donald Trump believing that the rules don’t apply to him. “Further, Congressional Republicans have moved from silence and inaction in the face of President Trump’s efforts to hamper Special Counsel Mueller’s work, to full-fledged accomplices. This is just the latest attempt to muddy the waters for Trump and undermine the Russia investigation, spearheaded by House Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes. “To banish entirely any thought that this is more than a partisan hatchet job, the same Committee that voted to release the memo subsequently voted against allowing the Democrats to release their own document, offering balanced context and analysis. I have read both memos and I believe the American public will take away the same thing I did, that the release of this document is a dangerous political ploy. Donald Trump and the Republican Party have found a new low,” said Congressman Ryan.
01.30.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement after attending President Trump’s first State of the Union Address. Ryan left his State of the Union guest seat vacant in honor of Amer Othman and all others wrongfully targeted for deportation by ICE. Read more here. “The President’s State of the Union Address can be summed up in four words: more of the same. Although polished and read with a teleprompter, the rhetoric, fear mongering, and falsehoods that President Trump so often leans on when facts elude him was as prevalent as ever. The President was carried into the White House in large part due to the promises he made to American workers – to fight for them every day so that their wages would rise, their pensions secured, and their futures brighter. He lied to them. And he’s done nothing but work against them since day one. Instead of expanding quality, affordable healthcare, Trump and Congressional Republicans’ first big push was to throw millions off of their insurance and cause premiums to skyrocket for millions more – including those with preexisting conditions. Instead of introducing the trillion dollar infrastructure bill he promised to get people back to work, he gave corporations like Apple a $47 billion dollar Christmas gift. I wish the President would realize that it’s game time. Hardworking people cannot afford to wait around while an erratic, reckless President fails to address their concerns over sending his latest mean-tweet. “This evening, when the President delivered his speech, there was at least one vacant seat because of the President’s own actions. Amer Othman was a pillar of the Youngstown community. He started a business downtown, employed members of our community, paid his taxes, and raised a beautiful family—all in the Mahoning Valley. Today, he no longer resides in the country he’s called home for 39 years because the Trump Administration decided to target upstanding individuals – Americans in every sense of the word – instead of violent criminals who actually pose a threat. President Trump must realize that when his words become public policy in places like Youngstown, families like Amer’s are ripped apart. That is why my guest seat at the State of the Union remained empty—in honor of Amer and all those people being heartlessly targeted by the Trump Administration. I’m sad that America, and the Office of the President, has become a place where the politics of fear outweigh doing what is right. Amer deserved to be at the State of the Union this evening, representing himself and so many others like him, to show President Trump and Congressional Republicans that the United States is his home. Instead his seat remained empty," said Congressman Ryan.
01.30.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Ryan (D-OH) today announced his intention to leave his State of the Union guest seat vacant in honor of Amer Othman and all others wrongfully targeted for deportation by ICE. “This evening, when the President of the United States walks into the House Chamber to deliver his first State of the Union Address, there will be at least one vacant seat because of the President’s own actions. Amer Othman was a pillar of the Youngstown community. He started a business downtown, employed members of our community, paid his taxes, and raised a beautiful family—all in the Mahoning Valley. Today, he no longer resides in the country he’s called home for 39 years because the Trump Administration decided to target upstanding individuals – Americans in every sense of the word – instead of violent criminals who actually pose a threat. President Trump must realize that when his words become public policy in places like Youngstown, families like Amer’s are ripped apart. That is why my guest seat at the State of the Union will remain empty—in honor of Amer and all those people being heartlessly targeted by the Trump Administration. I’m sad that America, and the Office of the President, has become a place where the politics of fear outweigh doing what is right. Amer deserves to be at the State of the Union this evening, representing himself and so many others like him, to show President Trump and Congressional Republicans that the United States is his home. Instead his seat remains empty,” said Congressman Ryan. In early January 2018, Congressman Ryan condemned ICE’s newly issued deportation order for Amer. Since 2013, Congressman Ryan has repeatedly introduced legislation (termed a “private bill”) to prevent the deportation of Amer Othman and grant him legal status. Upon taking office, President Trump and his Administration moved to deport Amer, who has lived in this country since he was 19 years old. Amer was to be deported on January 7th, but was given last minute reprieve after local outcry. On January 16th, at a routine ICE check-in meeting in Cleveland that Congressman Ryan attended, Amer was abruptly arrested by ICE and was told that deportation proceedings would move forward. Congressman Ryan worked with the House Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security to request a Department of Homeland Security departmental report on Amer’s case. On January 18th, the Subcommittee passed that measure. Under previous Administrations, the precedent has been to halt all deportation proceedings while such an investigation takes place. On January 25th, ICE announced their refusal to acknowledge the Subcommittee’s wishes and moved forward with Amer’s removal from the country. Amer was officially deported the evening of Monday, January 29th. This case is continuing to garner national media attention: see here and here.
01.29.2018	Washington, DC -- Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to the deportation of Youngstown Business owner Amer Othman. "It is a sad day for Amer, his family and our entire community. In a highly irregular rebuke of Congressional authority by ICE, Amer Othman was ripped from his four daughters, his wife, and the country that he has called home for over thirty years. Amer was a pillar of the community and brought commerce to a downtown that craved investment. He hired members of our community. He paid taxes. He did everything right. There are violent criminals walking the streets, yet our government wasted our precious resources incarcerating him. "I hope President Trump comes to realize that when his words become public policy in places like Youngstown, families like Amer’s are ripped apart. I am deeply saddened and extremely disappointed with this outcome. I’m sad that America, and the American Presidency has become a place where politics outweighs doing what is right. "I will continue to do whatever I can to support Amer’s family in Youngstown during this difficult time. As long as I am Congressman, I will continue to fight for common sense and justice in this country," said Congressman Ryan.
01.27.2018	Warren, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) announced today that 11 local students have been nominated to attend national military academies. Each year, Congressman Ryan nominates some of the best and brightest students from the 13th District to our United States military academies. This year Congressman Ryan recommended eleven young men and women that have excelled both academically at school, and personally as leaders in their communities. These young people are beginning a journey that would test them physically and mentally, and mold them into our nation’s leaders of the future. Congressman Ryan is proud to have the honor to nominate these young men and women to our United States military academies knowing that they will make our country proud. “I am proud to nominate each of these students to be considered for acceptance to our nation’s military academies. Once again, this is a very impressive group of applicants," Congressman Ryan said, "These academies serve to develop our young people into leaders not only for our military, but also in our community. Our future is bright in their hands, and I am grateful to have the privilege to nominate such dedicated and inspiring students.” Each nominee completed an application and interviewed with the 13th District Nomination Committee, and the group was honored at a ceremony with Congressman Ryan on Saturday, January 27th at the Trumbull County Veteran's Administration at 10:00 am (253 E. Market St., Warren, OH.) The nominated students are as follows: Callen Aulizia Son of Daniel and Jennifer Aulizia Naval Academy Boardman High School Dominic Carone Son of Tony and Beth Carone Military Academy at West Point Streetsboro High School Marissa Davis Daughter of Cicero Davis and Melanie Freeman-Cooper Military Academy at West Point Valley Christian High School and United States Military Academy Preparatory School Samuel Madden Son of James and Leslie Madden Military Academy at West Point Theodore Roosevelt High School Hayden Maderitz Son of Kendell Stauffer and Marla Maderitz Military Academy at West Point Girard High School Jordan Mason Son of Donald and Pamela Mason Air Force Academy Warren G. Harding High School Noah Monahan Son of Timothy Monahan and Kimberly Orr Air Force Academy Champion High School and Trumbull Career & Technical Center Ian Murphy Son of Stephen and Leslie Murphy Military Academy at West Point Ursuline High School Sarah Ryser Daughter of William and Tracey Ryser Naval Academy Girard High School Thomas Searle Son of Robert and Carrie Searle Naval Academy Firestone Community Learning Center John Subick Son of Michael and Lisa Subick Air Force Academy Ellet High School and Stark State College
01.25.2018	Washington, DC -- The Office of Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to ICE's decision not to grant a stay of removal in Amer Othman's case. “Congressman Ryan is very disappointed, but he remains in touch with Amer through his lawyer. He intends to exhaust every avenue available.”
01.24.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan signed a letter with 183 other Members of Congress to the United States Trade Representative (USTR) Robert Lighthizer expressing concern with the ongoing renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement. Specifically, the Members of Congress told Lighthizer to end the outsourcing of good-paying American jobs by negotiating for strong labor standards that end wage suppression and support increased labor rights for Mexican workers. “The suppression of wages and lack of labor rights continue to result in the outsourcing of U.S. manufacturing jobs and low wage growth,” wrote the Members of Congress. “Low wages, a lack of independent unions and an inability for workers to collectively bargain in Mexico have hurt American workers and led to the outsourcing of jobs to Mexico. Increasing labor rights in Mexico will help workers there climb out of poverty, and also protect American jobs and wages from a race to the bottom.” “Any new NAFTA must have strong, clear and binding provisions that address Mexico’s labor conditions,” continued the Members of Congress. “Given the ingrained resistance to labor rights in Mexico, we must demand real and identifiable progress on labor reforms take place before Congress votes on a renegotiated NAFTA.” The full letter is available here.
01.22.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan voted to reject flawed government funding bill. “Our constituents sent us to Washington to keep the government up and running. That is our job. And yet, under Republican control, Congress is now on its fifth short term funding resolution of this fiscal year alone. This lack of reliability hinders our ability to make critical, long-term investments in our national defense and domestic programs. The deal that was brought before the House today ending the GOP shutdown was fatally flawed. My constituents are expecting security and long-term funding for our military that needs consistency in order to maintain its effectiveness and to protect our people. We also need adequate investments to combat the opioid epidemic, provide veterans’ services that they earned, stabilize American’s pensions plans and investments in our education system, transportation infrastructure, and homeland security apparatus. This bill falls short of creating this stability, and was not enough to earn my vote. “The continued unpredictability of the Republican’s governing tactics, their lack of priority of secure funding for our country’s military and critical domestic investments, and their continued inability to bring up for a vote a bipartisan solution to protect DREAMers and our secure our country’s border is disappointing. Like many Americans, I am frustrated with how our Republican leadership in Congress and the Trump Administration is failing to succeed at these basic commonsense actions. Regardless, the bill passed. Starting now, Republicans have 17 days to finally come together with Democrats to act on the priorities my constituents are counting on. They need to provide more funding to combat the opioid epidemic. They need to secure the hard-earned pensions of Teamsters and coal miners. And they need to resolve one of the great moral questions of our age: whether we will allow young people brought here as babies and young children remain in the only country they have ever called home. “I have heard from Ohio DREAMers who only want to continue their education, practice medicine and start businesses in our communities, and give back to the state they love so much. I have heard from Teamsters and members of the United Mine Workers of America who go to work each day in the hope of retiring with security. And I have heard from communities crying out for additional federal support to help those suffering from substance abuse. These men and women’s voices will not be forgotten as Congress continues to work on these essential issues. Republican leadership has promised a vote on these important measures. Majority Leader McConnell and Speaker Ryan will be held accountable if they fail to honor the will of a bipartisan majority of this Congress,” said Congressman Ryan.
01.20.2018	Washington, DC -- Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement on the failure of the Republican-controlled Congress to fund the government. "As the clock struck midnight and we moved into the one year anniversary of President Trump's inauguration, the Republicans controlling the House, the Senate and the White House have declared their inability to keep the federal government running. Democrats remain ready and willing to work with Republicans to create a bipartisan budget agreement that will keep the government operating, stabilize Teamster and coal miner pensions on the verge of collapse, protect from deportation young children who’ve lived in the United States their whole lives, and provide funding for the opioid epidemic, children's health insurance, and community health centers. Instead though, Republicans are choosing instead to use those vulnerable populations as bargaining chips to play politics at the expense of those who need Congress to act. This crisis could have been averted at any point simply by bringing one of the several bipartisan agreements up for a vote. This is a painful and needless situation entirely of the GOP's making. I hope they come to their senses quickly and work with Democrats on a responsible path forward," said Congressman Ryan.
01.19.2018	Akron, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) released the following statement enthusiastically supporting the joint entrepreneurship partnership announced between eBay and Akron and Warren, Ohio. The “Retail Revival” program involves a 12-month partnership to help local small businesses and Northeast Ohio harness the power of technology and eBay’s global marketplace. The Ohio 13th Congressional District is the first in the country to be chosen as a pilot for this program. Ryan hosted eBay officials in his Warren, Ohio and Washington, DC offices and strongly urged them to select Akron and Warren for the Retail Revival program. “I am proud that my Congressional District was selected to host the first ‘Retail Revival’ pilot partnership with eBay. As technology and entrepreneurship continues to form the foundation of the twenty-first century economy, it is imperative that we in government be able to answer one very important question: How do we plug every community into the global economy? We have the perfect opportunity right now to help rebuild and rejuvenate communities that have been struggling with the loss of manufacturing by connecting them with tech companies traditionally located on the coasts. There is talent located all across America, but investments must be made in order to harness it. I applaud eBay for recognizing this reality and committing to investing in communities like Akron and Warren. This is a big deal for our communities, and I am thrilled to continue to support critical public-private partnerships like these,” said Congressman Ryan. The program will select 20-40 local businesses to participate in the program for 2018. Those businesses will receive exclusive support and resources to help them get started selling on the eBay platform including a comprehensive training program that will teach the eBay selling basics, a dedicated customer service support team to answer any questions the new sellers may have, a complimentary eBay store subscription, and an eBay selling starter kit. Akron or Warren, OH based businesses interested in participating in the program can apply by visiting and filling out a submission form by Friday, February 9 at 11:59PM ET.
01.18.2018	Washington, DC – Tonight, Congressman Tim Ryan voted against another irresponsible Continuing Resolution. “I could not vote for another government funding bill that utterly fails to help Teamsters and coal miners on the verge of seeing their pensions evaporate, 800,000 DREAMers facing deportation, and 9 million children who rely on the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). Once again, the so-called “governing” party in the House of Representatives surrendered their duty to responsibly fund the government, jeopardizing needed investment in Head Start, job training, and homeland security. As the unified Republican government lurches from one crisis to the next, it is hardworking families, our military, and communities that suffer. This is our fourth temporary spending bill in this fiscal year. Instead of working with Democrats to create a bipartisan budget agreement that will keep the government running, protect DREAMers, provide funding for the opioid epidemic and community health centers, Republicans are choosing to play politics at the expense of those who need Congress to act. Republican leadership must come to its senses and work with Democrats to actually solve problems, not create more,” said Congressman Ryan.
01.18.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) announced that tonight the Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security voted to request a Department of Homeland Security departmental report on Amer “Al” Adi’s immigration case. This action is a preliminary and necessary step before the Subcommittee could consider H.R. 1237, a private immigration bill granting him legal permanent residence sponsored by Rep. Ryan. The Subcommittee will use the resulting report to decide whether to proceed with a vote on Ryan’s legislation for Amer “Al” Adi. “Under past Administrations, a vote like the one tonight by the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security would halt all deportation proceedings for six months, allowing the Department of Homeland Security to conduct its investigation and for the Subcommittee to consider the results of the report. I would expect the Trump Administration to honor the will of the Subcommittee. “Amer deserves to have his case heard in court, and he deserves to stay in the United States – his home. In light of this development I call on Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to immediately release Amer from custody to rejoin his family in Youngstown. I would also like to thank the Members of Congress on the Subcommittee for recognizing the merits of this case and voting to make sure the Department of Homeland Security conducts a full investigation into this situation,” said Congressman Ryan. Amer was abruptly taken into custody on January 16, 2018 in the presence of Congressman Ryan while attending his Immigration and Customs Enforcement check-in in Cleveland, OH. Amer's case has been garnering national attention. Additional content can be found here, and here.
01.18.2018	Washington, DC -- Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement regarding the extradition of Claudia Hoerig, who was booked into the Trumbull County Jail this evening for the 2007 murder of her husband, Major Karl Hoerig. "It has been over 10 years since Claudia Hoerig murdered her husband, Major Karl Hoerig, in cold blood before fleeing the country to her native Brazil. Since then, our community has remained steadfast in its quest for justice. Tonight, a major development in that journey took place when Claudia Hoerig was extradited from Brazil and booked into the Trumbull County Jail. She will finally face justice for her despicable act. I am overjoyed that we are one big step closer to bringing closure to Karl's family and friends, but mindful that today’s news is bittersweet. No matter what happens to Claudia, our community and Karl’s family is still missing a good man. Tonight I am happy to be making progress, and grateful for the hard work of the countless individuals who have worked tirelessly to get to this point," said Congressman Ryan. Congressman Ryan’s Action Timeline on the Claudia Hoerig Case: (LETTER) May 4, 2007 letter to U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales(link is external) (LETTER) May 4, 2007 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice(link is external) (LETTER) November 20, 2007 letter to Brazilian Foreign Minister Amorim (link is external) (LETTER) November 27, 2007 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Patriota (link is external) (LETTER) November 29, 2007 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Patriota (link is external) (MEETING) December 18, 2007 Ryan meets with Brazilian Officials regarding Hoerig Case (VIDEO) April 3, 2008 Ryan facilitates AMVETS Commander to speak on Hoerig Case (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Patriota(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to Brazilian Chamber of Deputies President Arlindo Chinaglia (link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to Brazilian President Lula da Silva(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to President of the Senate Garilbaldi Alves(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to U.S. Ambassador to Brazil Clifford Sobrel(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice(link is external) (LETTER) March 4, 2009 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton(link is external) (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 11, 2009 Ryan introduces Ryan-Boccieri Hoerig Resolution (LETTER) March 3, 2011 letter to U.S. President Barack Obama (link is external) (LETTER) May 26, 2011 letter to Mary Warlow, U.S. Director of International Affairs, Dept. of Justice (link is external) (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 21, 2011 Ryan introduces Brazilian Foreign Aid Fairness Act (LETTER) July 27, 2011 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton (VIDEO) June 7, 2012 Ryan Spoke on House Floor on Claudia Hoerig and Brazilian Visa Amendment (BILL INTRODUCTION) February 14, 2013 Ryan Introduces "End Immunity for Brazilian Criminals Act" and the "Karl Hoerig Foreign Aid Suspension Act” (LETTER) March 12, 2013 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Mauro Vieira (VIDEO) April 17, 2013 Ryan protests Brazilian contract during Defense Appropriations Hearing over Hoerig Case (PRESS RELEASE) April 22, 2013 Ryan Questions Former Defense Secretary Hagel May 22, 2013 Ryan introduces Amendment to restrict immigrant visas for Brazilians (PRESS RELEASE) July 31, 2013 Brazil Revokes Hoerig’s Citizenship (VIDEO) June 5, 2013 Ryan speaks on House Floor on Amendment to Restrict Brazilian Immigrant Visas (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 15, 2015 Ryan introduces ‘Karl Hoerig Foreign Aid Suspension Act’ (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 15, 2015 Ryan introduces ‘End Immuity for Brazilian Criminals Act’ (PRESS RELEASE) July 31, 2013 Brazil Revokes Hoerig’s Citizenship (PRESS RELEASE) June 29, 2015 Ryan Calls on Brazilian President to Extradite Hoerig Letters Received: December 17, 2007 letter from Brazillian Ambassador Patriota(link is external) December 17, 2007 letter from the U.S. State Department(link is external) December 21, 2007 letter from the Brazil Ministry of External Relations(link is external) January 23, 2008 letter from the Justice Department Office of Legislative Affairs(link is external) May 23, 2008 letter from the State Department Office of Legislative Affairs(link is external) February 24, 2009 letter from the State Department Office of Legislative Affairs(link is external) September 19, 2011 letter from the State Department Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs October 24. 2011 letter from the Brazillian Ambassador to the United States of America, Mauro Vieira ###
01.16.2018	Cleveland, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to today’s arrest of Youngstown business owner Amer Othman. Amer was taken into custody today in the presence of Congressman Ryan while attending his Immigration and Customs Enforcement check-in in Cleveland, OH. Congressman Ryan continues to work with his colleagues on the House Judiciary Committee and the Department of Homeland Security. “The arrest of Amer Othman is a shameful failure of justice. Treating an individual with no criminal record who poses zero flight risk like an animal flies in the face of the American values Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) is supposedly defending. The Trump Administration didn’t even give Amer an opportunity to say goodbye to his wife and four daughters. I accompanied Amer to his meeting with ICE this morning in the hope that what is clear to the entire City of Youngstown would be clear to ICE: his case deserves its day in court and Amer is a valued member of our community. Instead, I witnessed firsthand the destructive consequences of President Trump’s willfully negligent immigration policies. A country that punishes those who wish to contribute will not find prosperity. What I saw today made me feel sad for our country. Our broken immigration system is hurting families and eroding our moral authority. We must do better. Not only for Amer, but for the countless other families in similar situations. For the 800,000 DREAMers who live in a state of limbo, wracked with fear and uncertainty, because of this Administration’s lack of empathy. Every American should be angered by what I witnessed today and what individuals are experiencing every day under the Trump Administration. This fight is not over,” said Congressman Ryan
01.04.2018	Youngstown, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan today announced the stay of deportation for Youngstown business owner Amer “Al” Othman. Amer had previously been ordered to leave the country on Sunday, January 7th. “I am happy to announce that our friend Amer’s deportation has been postponed. We will continue to fight for Amer to stay in Youngstown – his home. Today, good sense won out, and more details about Amer’s case will be released as they become available. I will continue to advocate for all the other Amers who are contributing to our country, all the young DREAMers fighting to remain in the only nation they’ve ever known, and a comprehensive fix to our broken immigration system,” said Rep. Tim Ryan Beginning in 2013, Tim Ryan has introduced legislation (termed a “private bill”) that prevents the deportation of Amer “Al” Othman and grants him legal status. Although those bills did not become law, the Department of Homeland Security has had a policy of not deporting people who are the subjects of pending legislation. President Trump changed this policy and then his administration moved to deport Amer, who has lived in this country since he was 19 years old.
01.03.2018	Youngstown, Ohio -- Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement condemning the Trump Administration's deportation order of Youngstown businessman Amer Othman. "The case of Amer Othman is a tragic illustration of the abject failure of our immigration system and why it must be fixed. Amer has lived in this country since the age of 19, is happily married with four children, and is a successful local business owner. He is contributing mightily to Youngstown and our country. He does not deserve to be deported, and I am proud to have introduced a bill that, for a time, prevented his deportation. It was a policy at the Department of Homeland Security not to deport people who are the subject of introduced legislation. The Trump Administration’s decision to ignore this policy is what led to Amer’s deportation order. Amer’s wife, his children, and the entire community of people who care about him deserve better. This a disgrace and only worsens our already broken immigration system," said Congressman Ryan Since 2013, Tim Ryan has introduced legislation (termed a “private bill”) that prevents the deportation of Amer Othman and grants him legal status. Although those bills did not become law, the Department of Homeland Security has had a policy of not deporting people who are the subjects of pending legislation. Upon taking office, President Trump changed this policy and then his administration moved to deport Amer, who has lived in this country since he was 19 years old. Amer will be deported on January 7th. His American wife will go with him. His four American daughters will remain in the United States.
01.02.2018	Warren, Ohio — Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) made the following statement today in regards to the barrage of recent attacks on the Department of Justice (DOJ) and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) from President Trump, the Administration, and Republican elected-officials. “These attacks go against the heart of who we are as Americans and what we stand for. We fought and bled for independence and formed a democracy in the name of liberty and justice for all. Our Constitution establishes a separation of powers so that we will never again have authoritarian rule. Republican calls to undermine these most basic pillars of our democracy aren’t normal, they aren't just politics, they are downright un-American. Being able to independently investigate our own government free from political influence is what makes our nation great and it’s what sets us apart from the rest of the world. I fully support the FBI and its agents serving at the highest levels of law enforcement. They are protecting our nation here at home and we should never let partisan politics stand in the way of our citizens’ safety or foreign threats to our democracy,” said Rep. Tim Ryan. On January 26, Rep. Francis Rooney (R-FL) called for leaders of the DOJ and FBI to “purge” officials who are politically biased against President Trump. This follows weeks of Republican attempts to delegitimize and compromise Special Counsel Robert Muller’s investigation into Russian election interference.
12.21.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today voted against the Continuing Resolution and legislation that inadequately funds disaster aid. “As we continue to lurch from short-term funding bill to short-term funding bill, attempting to avert a last minute Congressional created crisis, the Republican majority continues to prove itself unable to govern. We need to be making strategic investments in education, infrastructure, and our national defense–something these continuing resolutions do not allow. I cannot in good conscience vote for more temporary fixes that damage our ability to invest in our own future, especially without assurances that Congress will take up a permanent solution for the DACA program. The same goes with the inadequate disaster relief supplemental aid legislation, which was woefully insufficient. The Governor of Puerto Rico previously requested $94 billion just for its recovery efforts, but this measure only provided $81 billion to be split between Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. It also included an unacceptably low amount of funding to combat the ever-growing opioid epidemic. There were 63,600 overdose deaths in 2016, far more than the 58,000 deaths in the entire Vietnam War. Congress must get serious about the funding needed to turn the tide of this crisis,” said Congressman Ryan.
12.19.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to the House passage of the GOP Tax Conference Report. “President Trump and Congressional Republicans have lied to the American people about the impact of this tax legislation since the beginning. This bill will increase taxes on half of all Americans, decrease long term economic growth, and send our national debt skyrocketing – all to give huge multinational corporations who have been making record profits a tax break. We have pensions collapsing and communities that have been wiped out, and yet the GOP plan to fix all of this is to raise taxes on 82 million hardworking families. To make matters worse, we are going to need to borrow huge sums of money from China to give tax breaks to these corporations and inflict further pain on the middle class by cutting Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, education, and other important programs Americans rely on every day. As the House took this final vote to raise taxes on hardworking people, families back in Youngstown and Akron are getting ready for the holidays: buying gifts, arranging travel, and cooking for their families. I wish Congressional Republicans cared as much about these men and women as they did about lining their donors’ pockets. But as this vote shows, clearly they do not,” said Congressman Ryan. Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to the House passage of the GOP Tax Conference Report. “President Trump and Congressional Republicans have lied to the American people about the impact of this tax legislation since the beginning. This bill will increase taxes on half of all Americans, decrease long term economic growth, and send our national debt skyrocketing – all to give huge multinational corporations who have been making record profits a tax break. We have pensions collapsing and communities that have been wiped out, and yet the GOP plan to fix all of this is to raise taxes on 82 million hardworking families. To make matters worse, we are going to need to borrow huge sums of money from China to give tax breaks to these corporations and inflict further pain on the middle class by cutting Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, education, and other important programs Americans rely on every day. As the House took this final vote to raise taxes on hardworking people, families back in Youngstown and Akron are getting ready for the holidays: buying gifts, arranging travel, and cooking for their families. I wish Congressional Republicans cared as much about these men and women as they did about lining their donors’ pockets. But as this vote shows, clearly they do not,” said Congressman Ryan.
12.15.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement after Congressional Republicans released their compromise tax legislation. From day one, President Trump and the Republicans in Congress have lied to the American people about the impact of this abhorrent tax legislation. This bill will increase taxes on half of all Americans, decrease long term economic growth, and send our national debt skyrocketing – all to give companies like Apple a $47 billion tax break. Today, 63% of families could not withstand a $500 emergency. We have pensions collapsing and communities that have been wiped out, and yet the GOP plan to fix all of this is to raise taxes on 82 million middle class families. To make matters worse, we are going to need to borrow huge sums from China to give tax breaks to these corporations already making record profits, and inflict further pain on the middle class by cutting Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, education, and other important programs Americans rely on. This bill weakens our country and will make it impossible for us to grow our economy, lift wages, and secure pensions for American families.
12.14.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement on the indefensible Republican rollback of net neutrality. “President Trump’s hand-picked FCC chairman and the Republican majority on the FCC just voted to overturn net neutrality, striking a huge blow against Americans’ right to a free and open internet. With this decision, internet service providers like Comcast, AT&T, and Time Warner Cable will now have the power to dictate the speed of websites, charge higher fees to access certain websites, and prioritize their own services over those of their competitors. The internet is an indispensable part of American life and it should be classified in a way that reflects the world we live in today. The effort to repeal net neutrality is a glaring example of the Republican Party siding with multinational corporations and big business over the interests of the American people. Shame on them for going against the will of the people with such wanton disregard for how this policy will impact their lives,”
12.11.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) and Dave Joyce (OH-14) led 48 bipartisan lawmakers in asking the administration for additional emergency funding to combat the nation’s opioid epidemic. The letter, written to the Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney, is requesting additional funding and resources to address the opioid epidemic across the nation. The request for additional funding comes after President Trump declared the opioid crisis a national public emergency. The necessary additional funding will be used to combat the crisis directly at the community lever where we have seen an increase in lack of resources and training for our law enforcement and other emergency officials. As stated in the letter, “In light of the declaration by the Administration that the opioid epidemic is a public health emergency, and based on the recommendations from the Commission’s report, we urge you to develop and issue a comprehensive funding proposal to Congress to combat this crisis in the next supplemental appropriations bill.” “During my time in Congress I have met with countless local officials and representatives from Ohio and across the country who have expressed an urgent need for more resources to combat drugs like heroin and fentanyl. The rise of synthetic opioids are compounding the devastation already being caused by the heroin and opioid addiction epidemic. I have urged, and will continue to urge, President Trump and Congress to provide the additional funding needed to our local officials, emergency rooms, treatment facilities, child care services, and law enforcement,” said Congressman Ryan. “The nation has wrongfully stood by and watched this problem became an epidemic. The sad truth is that this is effecting more and more families daily in Ohio and families across the United States,” said Congressman Dave Joyce. “It is no longer acceptable for us to stand by and allow more lives to be lost. In order to do this, we need to know more information and have more resources available sent directly to our communities now.” Download the full letter here.
12.11.2017	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement on the passing of journalist and civil rights icon Simeon Booker. “Today we lost a groundbreaking journalist, a civil rights icon, and a true American hero. Simeon Booker devoted his life’s work to breaking barriers and changing the hearts and minds of all those he touched through his writing. Simeon Booker was the definition of American exceptionalism, his work changed the course of history and helped transform our country to the place it is today. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and loved ones,” said Congressman Ryan. Ryan has introduced legislation to award Booker the Congressional Gold Metal – Congress’s highest honor. Read more here. Ryan has introduced legislation to award Booker the Presidential Medal of Freedom – the highest civilian honor bestowed by the President of the United States. Read more here.
12.05.2017	Akron, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan is proud to announce the winning team for the 2017 Congressional App Challenge: Nathan Dort and Robert Frazier from the National Inventors Hall of Fame High School. Their app entitled “The Truth About Opioids” was developed in response to the topic derived from a problem-based learning scenario involving Summit County Public Health and the Akron Fire Department. “This year, I was blown away by the creativity of all the students who submitted their apps. I want to congratulate Nathan Dort and Robert Frazier from NIHF STEM High School in Akron for their work on this worthwhile project,” said Congressman Ryan. “I also want to commend the goals of the Congressional App Challenge, which is to ensure continued growth and innovation in the science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) fields and to encourage students to excel in those occupations. By 2018 we are going to need up to three million new highly-skilled workers in the STEM field, and it is crucial that we make every effort to provide students with an opportunity to develop the skills necessary for tomorrow’s job market.” Nathan (left), Robert (right), and Sam (back) “This is a tremendous honor for Nathan and Robert, and we heartily congratulate them on their hard work, creativity and dedication to learning. This award is also for our educators and administrators who inspire our students every day,” said Superintendent David James, Akron Public Schools. “We thank Congressman Tim Ryan for this opportunity to give America a glimpse at the bright light that glows inside students in our public schools. The best and the brightest are all around us.” “The Congressional App Challenge was an amazing opportunity and experience for our Akron STEM High School learners to employ their 21st-century skills in an authentic situation. Nathan and Robert were able to use their collaborative, innovative and critical thinking skills that are embedded their AP Computer Science course to develop their app and tie it to our local community, said Dina Popa, Principal of NIHF STEM High School. “This App was a solution developed during their Problem Based Learning unit where they explored ways to educate our community and create a safer environment by addressing the opioid epidemic in Northeast Ohio. We appreciate Congressman Ryan's commitment to support STEM education by running this competition.” "I would say that this particular Problem Based Learning Unit really helped to give me hope,” said Sam Appleby, Learning Coach of NIHF STEM High School. “My brother Dan passed away in 2013 after overdosing on Heroin. Over the last 4 years, I have gone from experiencing helplessness in dealing with the Opioid Epidemic to now experiencing Hope that our future generations will provide relief to both addicts and families." “Winning the Congressional App Challenge has been an honor and I believe it has positively impacted my life for the long term,” said Robert Frazier. “Learning how to code from doing the Congressional App Challenge has been a fun experience for me, but it also has opened my eyes to the larger world of coding and how I can apply it to my life and community.” “As we began the Problem Based Learning scenario, Robert and I used the design process to develop our final version which was selected as the winning app,” said Nathan Dort. “We are very excited to be part of Congressman Ryan's program and look forward to continuing the development of our app.” About The Congressional App Challenge: The Congressional App Challenge was created because Congress recognized that STEM and computer-based skills are essential for economic growth and innovation, and that the U.S. has been falling behind on these fronts. By some estimates, the U.S. may be short by as many as a million programmers by 2020. These are high-paying, high-demand jobs. To maintain American competitiveness, it’s crucial that the U.S. invests in our youth now and helps them acquire the skills necessary to pursue these careers in the future. This nationwide competition highlights the creativity and talent of the students in each Congressional District, with each district selecting a winner(s) and their app to be prominently featured at the U.S. Capitol. Congressman Ryan was one of two Congressional Co-Chairs for this year’s challenge. Recognizing the racial, gendered, and other disparities in the tech sector, the CAC also focuses on inclusivity and making the Challenge widely accessible to students from all backgrounds. For more information about the Congressional App Challenge, please visit www.CongressionalAppChallenge.us. ###
12.04.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to the Senate passing a Republican tax scheme that will devastate hardworking American families in the dead of night. “Now that Republicans in the Senate have passed this abhorrent tax legislation, members of both chambers will go to a Conference Committee to hammer out a final bill. If this GOP-controlled Congress had an ounce of moral authority left, the Committee’s job would be a simple one: toss both bills into the nearest dumpster. Half of all Americans and 82 million middle-class families will face a tax increase under this scam. The GOP is mortgaging away our long-term economic future for the short-term gains of a wealthy few. They are prepared to blow a giant hole in our deficit, borrow huge sums from China to give tax breaks to corporations already making record profits, and inflict further pain on the middle class by cutting Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, education, and other important programs Americans rely on. Congress should be doing everything in our power to make life easier—not harder—for the hardworking men and women of this country. This bill seems to have been written to accomplish exactly the opposite. It steals precious resources from key investments like education, building a twenty first century transportation system, and fighting the opiate addiction epidemic. It weakens our country and will make it impossible for us to grow our economy, lift wages, and secure pensions for American families,” said Congressman Ryan.
12.01.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement regarding former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn pleading guilty to making false statements to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) about his communications with the Russian government. “Every American citizen should be deeply troubled by this admission of lying by a former Trump Administration national security official. President Trump’s hand-picked National Security Advisor—who Trump referred to as “a wonderful man”—has plead guilty in federal court for committing a felony. Michael Flynn was the highest-ranking White House official in charge of U.S. national security and he lied to the FBI about his communications with a foreign adversary. This further proves why we must allow the Russia investigation to continue without influence from the Trump Administration.”
11.30.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan called on Governor John Kasich to increase funding for Bureau of Criminal Investigation (BCI) Drug Chemistry Laboratories. BCI’s labs need additional resources to help expedite drug testing and clear state backlogs. This is an integral part of holding drug traffickers accountable, and keeping them, and their products, out of our communities. “Many law enforcement officers are confronting devastating scenes of overdose on a regular basis, and are saving lives everyday with naloxone. These men and women should be commended for their work on the front lines of this crisis. Last week I held a roundtable conversation with local officials to continue to make sure we're tackling the addiction crisis the best we can. It became clear over the course of that conversation that helping to clear these drug lab backlogs are an important step for our local law enforcement to successfully combat the availability of these drugs in our communities,” said Congressman Ryan. The letter can be found here, With the full text provided below: ### November 30, 2017 Governor John Kasich Riffe Center, 30th Floor 77 South High Street Columbus, OH 43215-6117 Dear Governor Kasich: Ohio’s opioid epidemic has continued to worsen over the past year with fentanyl and carfentanil becoming more commonplace throughout our state. As you are aware, overdose deaths increased from 3,050 in 2015 to 4,050 last year, due to increased fentanyl use. As Governor, I applaud your efforts to curb the opioid epidemic. However, there is no question that we can all be doing more to help our local communities respond to this challenging and overwhelming crisis. I have heard repeatedly from local law enforcement in Ohio’s 13th Congressional District about their frustrations and concerns regarding the delays at the Bureau of Criminal Investigation (BCI) Laboratory Division crime labs in performing drugs tests. I understand that demand continues to increase with the BCI expecting more than 27,000 drugs tests this year, nearly double the number of tests conducted in 2010. The increase in chemistry cases and the complexity of the substances cause long backlogs that prevent the results from being returned to local communities in a timely manner. These delays make it harder to quickly move cases through the judicial system and get dangerous drugs off the market. Ohio BCI’s labs need additional resources to help expedite drug testing and clear state backlogs. While I was encouraged by your most recent budget increase for the BCI, the constant delays show that more funding and attention to this problem is needed. It is imperative that we not only decrease the number of drugs available, but also hold traffickers responsible. I appreciate your attention to this important issue and urge you to increase funding for Ohio’s BCI Laboratory Division. Thank you for your attention to this matter. I look forward to working with you on this proposal in the future. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
11.29.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan voted in favor of legislation to strengthen and make mandatory anti-workplace harassment training for Members of Congress and their staff. H.Res. 630, which Congressman Ryan was a cosponsor of, passed the House on a voice vote. “Across the country, industries and organizations are reckoning with the dark reality of workplace harassment – especially sexual harassment. It has become abundantly clear that Congress is no exception. Elected officials here in Washington are being called to lead, and we must answer that call. How can we expect others to follow our example if we’re not willing to fully acknowledge the problem, and take concrete steps to address it? Every man or woman who wants to work for Congress or currently works in this historic institution, should feel comfortable and safe coming to work every day. Congress and our country is better when we have diverse voices in the room. No person should show up at work – either in the halls of Congress, on a movie set, at a restaurant, or for a newspaper – and be forced to worry that it will be toxic work environment or they will be harassed or assaulted. This resolution alone is not an adequate remedy to sexual harassment in Congress, but it represents an important first step towards reforming the House of Representatives’ system for handling workplace harassment of all types. I was proud to cosponsor and vote for this legislation, and will continue to use my position as Ranking Member of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Subcommittee to see that the Congressional Office of Compliance is sufficiently funded to expeditiously manage investigations into all harassment claims. Congress must be a safe place for all women and men who come here to work each day,” said Congressman Ryan.
11.29.2017	Ravenna, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement upon hearing the news of Portage County Commissioner Maureen Frederick’s passing. Maureen has dutifully served the people of Portage County and Northeast Ohio since she was first elected County Treasurer in 1992. “I was deeply saddened to hear about the passing of Maureen Frederick. Maureen dedicated her life to serve the people of Portage County, and the greater Northeast Ohio community. Through her work as County Treasurer and County Commissioner, she made Portage County a better place to raise a family and call home. My deepest sympathies are with her friends and family. Her leadership will be sorely missed,” said Congressman Ryan.
11.29.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to North Korea’s most recent ballistic missile test. “North Korea has now successfully tested a missile that can hit anywhere in United States. Clearly, they are not intimidated by President Trump’s threats or boasts. America is less safe and more vulnerable to North Korea than the day President Trump took office. The President’s strategy -- if he even has one -- is not working. Foreign policy is not conducted on Twitter. Our allies need to know they can count on clear, level-headed American leadership. Laying out and executing a firm diplomatic strategy for North Korea is vital to assuring America and our allies that they can trust our steady hand.”
11.28.2017	Kent, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan expressed gratitude to the Service and Support Administration unit and the Portage County Board of Disabilities for ratifying an agreement to end the seven-week strike. “Negotiations are difficult, and these were certainly no different. I understand that as is often the outcome, both sides have not been completely satisfied with the result. But I join with the community, specifically those served by Portage County Board of Developmental Disabilities, in thanking all those involved in the resolution so that these important services can be restored. Soon, the Service and Support Administrators will be able to serve the people they have dedicated their careers advocating for,” said Congressman Ryan. Congressman Ryan had previously written a letter urging the Portage Country Board of Developmental Disabilities to return to the bargaining table with the Ohio Education Association.
11.21.2017	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) unveiling its plan to repeal net neutrality. The five-member FCC has a Republican majority and is led by Chairman Ajit Pai, who was appointed by President Trump. “I am furious to learn that President Trump’s hand-picked FCC chairman will overturn net neutrality, taking away Americans’ right to a free and open internet. With this decision, internet service providers like Comcast, AT&T, and Time Warner Cable will now have the power to dictate the speed of websites, charge higher fees to access certain websites, and prioritize their own services over those of their competitors. Before the net neutrality rules were made in 2015, more than 4 million Americans weighed in on the proposal and voiced their strong support for net neutrality. Classifying the internet as a utility helps low-income communities gain equal access to broadband services that help plug disconnected communities back into our economy. It allows the creation of stronger rules and regulations to ban paid prioritization of content and services across all internet platforms--including mobile broadband, which makes up 63% of all usage. The internet is an indispensable part of American life and it should be classified in a way that reflects the world we live in today. The plan to repeal net neutrality is yet another example of the Republican Party siding with multinational corporations and big business over the interests of the American people. Shame on them,” said Ryan.
11.21.2017	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) made the following statement today after the non-partisan Tax Policy Center released new analysis of the Republican tax plan moving through the Senate. The Tax Policy Center found that half of all Americans will face tax increases by 2027 – including 82 million middle class families. Two-thirds of households in the middle quintile will see a tax increase, yet only 2 percent of the top 0.1 percent will see an increase. The Tax Policy Center’s analysis of the tax bill that passed out of the Senate Finance Committee can be found here. “Independent analysis after independent analysis has confirmed that this legislation does not cut taxes for middle class families, but raises them. Half of all Americans and 82 million middle class families will face a tax increase under the Republican tax scam. Even Mitch McConnell said he “misspoke” about the middle-class tax hikes that will happen under this tax plan. Donald Trump and Congressional Republicans should be ashamed of this scam. As American families gather this week to celebrate Thanksgiving, Congress should be doing everything in our power to make life easier—not harder—for the hardworking men and women of this country. This bill increases our deficit, increases our national debt, increases taxes on these families, increases the cost of education, and puts us in a worse position geopolitically with countries like China who are trying to take our place as the strongest country in the world. There’s not much there to be thankful for,” said Ryan.
11.17.2017	Washington, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Tim Ryan, along with other House Democrats, introduced the Rehabilitation for Multiemployer Pensions Act, which strengthens the retirement security of workers and guarantee the full benefits they have earned over a lifetime of hard work. “Hardworking Americans are the true profit creators in our country. Their work is why any company is able to earn a profit. Pensions are not ‘benefits,’ they’re promises, and no business or company has a right to break them. Every day, hundreds of multi-employer pension funds move closer to insolvency, risking life-threatening cuts that jeopardize the economic security of countless families in Ohio and across the nation through no fault of their own,” said Rep. Tim Ryan “Families need to know that safeguards are in place to protect their benefits, and the secure retirements they’ve worked for. Democrats stand ready to provide that,” All told more than 200 multiemployer plans across the country are projected to fail, many within the next 10 years. These failures could devastate the retirement security of 1.5 million American workers and leave taxpayers on the hook for billions of dollars when the federally insured plans collapse. Democrats are committed to protecting American workers and the retirement they worked so hard to secure. This legislation provides financing through the newly created Pension Rehabilitation Administration (PRA) to allow multi-employer pension plans to remain solvent and continue providing full retirement security for retirees and workers for decades to come. The proposal allows qualifying pension funds to borrow money from the PRA to pay benefits, save money and purchase safe investments. These loans, funded by the sale of long-term, low-risk Treasury-issued bonds, will allow pension funds to focus on investing resources into getting back to long-term solvency while giving pensioners the reassurance of knowing that their benefits will not be cut. By guaranteeing the resources needed to pay promised benefits to hardworking families, this proposal gives pension funds the time they need to get back to a position of strength and stability. This Legislation is the House companion to Senator Brown’s Bill to ensure that Ohio retirees can keep the pensions they have earned. In October, Ryan also introduced the Prioritizing Our Workers Act of 2017. This legislation revises the priorities section of the bankruptcy code to place unpaid vested benefits on the same level as bankruptcy attorneys’ fees and other highest-priority claims that a company must pay out in full before paying any other claims. Congressman Donald Norcross (D-NJ) is an original co-sponsor in the House, and Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV) has introduced companion legislation in the Senate. Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) also joined Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT) in introducing The Keep Our Pension Promises Act, which would reverse a provision passed in 2014 that could result in deep pension cuts for millions of retirees and workers in multi-employer pension plans. The new legislation establishes a legacy fund within the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation to ensure that multi-employer pension plans can continue to provide pension benefits to every eligible American for decades to come. This legislation is paid for by closing two tax loopholes that allow the wealthiest Americans to avoid paying their fair share of taxes.
11.16.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement after voting against the Republican tax proposal. Rep. Tim Ryan House Floor Speech Before Final Vote “Instead of fixing our broken tax system, the so-called tax ‘reform’ legislation the Republican Majority just rushed through the House relies on the same supply-side, trickle-down economics that has failed in the past. In the last 30 years, 96% of income growth in the United States has gone to the top 10% of Americans. Today, 63% of families could not withstand a $500 emergency. We have pensions collapsing and communities that have been wiped out, and yet the GOP plan to fix all of this is to raise taxes on seniors, students, and hardworking Americans. So now Republicans want to go to the Chinese government and borrow the $2.3 trillion they just to give to the millionaires and billionaires? That is not acceptable. “I have said previously that Republicans and Democrats have an opportunity to work together to make our tax code simpler, fairer, and more competitive. Instead of taking advantage of this opportunity for bipartisanship, Republicans have created a tax bill that benefits themselves, their wealthy donors, and—not surprisingly—President Trump himself. These tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires will blow a massive hole in our deficit and will mean drastic cuts to important programs that give a much-needed hand up to hardworking families and students who want a fair shot at the American Dream. This tax plan will not make America great. It will make America worse for everybody who is not already rich. I proudly voted against this bill that would benefit a few wealthy Americans at the expense of many hardworking men and women. I hope the Senate is able to defeat this bill,” said Congressman Ryan.
11.14.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today after voting in favor of the FY2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). “While this legislation was far from perfect, I was proud to vote in favor of the 2018 NDAA today. This bipartisan bill ensures that American men and women in uniform are provided with the tools they need and the benefits and support they deserve – including a much needed 2.4% pay increase for military personnel, which is above the President’s requested 2.1% figure, extends special pay and bonuses for servicemembers, and provides support to reduce military spouse unemployment and underemployment. It also continues to increase our military readiness and create more jobs for Americans. We must have a military that is prepared for the threats and challenges our nation faces around the world, and it is the responsibility of Congress to give them every opportunity to succeed,” said Congressman Ryan. The bill included many provisions that Congressman Ryan was supportive of, including measures to strengthen deterrence and boost unity against Russia’s campaign to undermine our democracy and democracies worldwide. There were also necessary measures within the legislation to address military readiness gaps, and to require further strategies from President Trump and the Department of Defense on Russia, Syria, Afghanistan, and other hot spots around the world. Importantly, language was also written in to acknowledge and to plan for the real threat that climate change poses to national security, something that has been brought up at the very highest levels of our armed forces. Additional details about FY2018 NDAA: Supports our Servicemembers 2.4% pay raise for all members of the Armed Forces – the largest pay raise for our armed forces in eight years Reauthorizes over 30 types of bonuses and special pays to encourage retention and enlistment Increases military end strength by 20,300 personnel including 9,500 personnel beyond the President’s request Clarifies DoD authority to prosecute criminals who share sexually explicit or graphic photos recorded without the consent of the person in the photo by creating a specific provision in the Uniform Code of Military Justice for these disgusting offenses Expands the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Program for active duty, reservists, and delayed entry members Supports our Military Families Authorizes $1M for a pilot program to offer telework facilities on military installations outside the United States to assist with military spouse employment Allows for reimbursement of credentialing fees for military spouses Cares for our Gold Star families by permanently extending the Special Survivor Indemnity Allowance (SSIA) under the Survivor Benefit Plan and provides for annual inflation adjustments Supports National Needs Authorizes $33.7B in Health Programs Provisions to increase audit readiness, financial transparency and fiscal responsibility in the DoD Authorizes $4.6B needed for the European Defense Initiative with NATO allies to enhance defense in Europe. Ohio National Guard has been doing incredible work for this national and international security imperative. Requires the President develop a national policy for the United States related to cyberspace, cybersecurity and cyberwarfare to deter and respond to attacks on US interests Requires the Secretary of State and Secretary of Defense jointly develop a comprehensive strategy to counter threats by the Russian Federation Purchases a total of 20 C-130s in three different variants Authorizes $12.3B for Missile Defense Agency work to support national and international security, including expanding the capacity for ground-based interceptors with authorization for up to 28 additional Ground-Based Interceptors and requires a plan expand to a strategically relevant stockpile of these important missiles. Proud of Ohio’s important role in National Defense Supports the Aviation Hall of Fame being located in Ohio $2.2B for Army ground combat vehicles including $1.1B for M1 Abrams tanks made in Ohio and $622M for Stryker armored combat vehicles $4.4B for Ford-Class Aircraft Carriers, $5.9B for Virginia-class Submarines and $842M for Columbia-class Submarines, the replacement for the aging Ohio Class fleet, which are supported by the hard working Ohioans at BWXT and by businesses throughout Ohio Provides $8M in funding to construct a Small Arms Range for the Air Force at Ohio’s Rickenbacker International Airport and $15M in funding for the Ohio National Guard’s Toledo Express Airport Concerns: Acquisition reform advertised as “Slimming the Acquisition Code” must be balanced with national security needs and regulations to protect our environment and our American businesses. Continues to prohibit funding needed to close the base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and transfer the individuals who are detained at that facility.
11.09.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement after hearing President Trump’s comments about our trade imbalance with China. According to President Trump, he doesn’t fault China for a “very unfair and one-sided” trade relationship with the United States. He went on to say, “I don’t blame China. After all, who can blame a country for taking advantage of another country for the benefit of its citizens?” The trade balance is driven largely by China’s manipulation of its currency, almost non-existent environmental and labor standards, and subsidization of Chinese industries. “Through its willful disregard for international trade laws, intellectual property theft, lax labor laws, dumping of cheap Chinese commodities into U.S. markets, and long history of improperly manipulating its currency, the Chinese government has consistently put a target on the backs of every working-class American and contributed to the hollowing out of the American middle-class. The fact that President Trump would put the blame on the United States instead of China’s outrageous behavior is a slap in the face to millions of hardworking Americans worried about whether their job will be here tomorrow. While President Trump acts tough on China in front of friendly crowds at campaign rallies, this week we saw how he acts when he is face to face with Chinese leaders. “Throughout his campaign, Donald Trump promised a get-tough-on-China trade policy and pledged to declare China a currency manipulator on his first day in office. Neither one of those has happened. Instead of tackling issues like illegal Chinese steel dumping, the current Administration seems more interested in blaming America than setting a correct path forward that bolsters working families in my district and across the country. “I’ve seen and fought against the devastation caused by unfair trade, especially with China, for too long. We must implement strong trade enforcement practices to level the playing field for our workforce. Donald Trump is the president. The buck stops with him. We are in debt $1.2 trillion to China. If President Trump really wants to strengthen the United States, he should start by scrapping his disaster of a tax reform plan that adds trillions more to the deficit and puts us in even deeper debt to China,” said Congressman Ryan.
11.08.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement after voting against the Save Local Business Act of 2017 (H.R. 3441). The legislation creates a new, narrow definition of a joint employer under the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA) and the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), limiting who workers may hold responsible for wage theft or unfair labor practices. H.R. 3441 replaces almost a century of law with a proposal that will harm working people and create confusion for responsible employers. “The American middle class is strongest when workers are able to negotiate a fair, living wage. We can clearly see how attacks on American workers and unions have negatively impacted wages and benefits and exasperated income inequality in our country over the last 30 years. I am proud to be part of a family with a strong union representation – unions helped put food on our table, a roof over our head, and provide my family with stability and security. This bill is an affront to that way of life, and throws hardworking American’s under the bus. It is deeply unfair and stacks the deck against the men and women in my district who are just trying to build a better life for themselves and their families. I voted against this bill and will vote against any Republican bill that continues to put corporate greed ahead of American workers,” said Congressman Ryan. H.R. 3441: Cripples working people’s freedom to negotiate for better wages and benefits when they have joint employers. When workers join a union and exercise their right to negotiate over wages and conditions of employment, it is crucial that they be able to negotiate with all parties that control the employment relationship. If not, then joining a union would be futile. The National Labor Relations Board’s 2015 Browning Ferris decision restored longstanding precedent by preventing employers from insulating themselves from their responsibilities to negotiate with workers if they share control over the terms and conditions of employment. H.R. 3441 reverses this decision. By undermining workers’ rights to negotiate with their employers, H.R. 3441 prevents workers from raising wages at a time of rapidly growing income inequality. Empowers employers to evade liability for wage theft, child labor, and equal pay violations, while also jeopardizing legal protections for vulnerable farmworkers. The FLSA’s broad definition of employment has long ensured that workers can hold employers accountable for wage and hour violations whenever the client employer establishes the economic realities for the employment relationship. H.R. 3441 dismantles this protection, leaving more workers without recourse for wage theft and child labor. By amending the FLSA, this bill also threatens equal pay protections guaranteed under the Equal Pay Act, an amendment to the FLSA. H.R. 3441 may also upend protections for farmworkers covered under the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Workers Protection Act, which incorporates FLSA’s standards for joint employment. Hurts law-abiding contractors, and grants franchisors a blank check to dictate their franchisees’ employment practices, while leaving franchisees on the hook for any legal violations. This bill is a solution in search of a problem. No franchisor has ever been held to be a joint employer with its franchisees under the NLRA or the FLSA. H.R. 3441 is unfair to franchisees, because it insulates franchisors from joint employer liability even when they direct franchisees’ employment policies and practices. Some construction contractors have warned that H.R. 3441 “would further tilt the field of competition against honest, ethical businesses” because it leaves unethical competitors able to cut costs by outsourcing to entities who violate wage and hour laws without fear of joint employer liability.
11.07.2017	Washington, DC -- Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1900, a bill to designate the new museum and memorial being built in downtown Columbus, Ohio as the “National Veterans Memorial and Museum.” This is following unanimous passage of the bill by the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs last week. The bill was cosponsored by Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH), and introduced by Representatives Steve Stivers (R-OH), Joyce Beatty (D-OH) and Pat Tiberi (R-OH). The companion bill in the Senate has been introduced by Senators Rob Portman (R-OH) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH). “It is long past time for a National Veterans Memorial and Museum to highlight the courage and sacrifice of those Americans who dedicated their lives to this great nation,” said Ryan. “I thank every Ohioan and the national Veterans community for the vision and hard work to make this beautiful museum stand for the Americans who stand for us. I am proud to have cosponsored this bipartisan legislation to make this a reality in Ohio, a state with a long legacy of patriotic Americans placing service above self.” “Ohio is home to the sixth largest veteran population in the United States, is easily accessible, and home to some of the best educational opportunities for veterans. It is clear that Ohio is the ideal place for America’s National Veterans Memorial and Museum,” Stivers said. “Today’s vote to pass this legislation out of the House of Representatives is an exciting step forward in the effort for a national designation. I am proud to continue working with my colleagues in the Ohio delegation to support this museum for all of the great contributions it will make for the veterans community across the country.” “I am proud that the National Veterans Memorial and Museum Act was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives today, and will continue to do everything in my power to see that it is signed into law,” Beatty said. “Columbus, Ohio is the perfect place for the museum which seeks to honor, connect, inspire and educate all Americans about the selfless service and sacrifice of our nation’s veterans.” “Our service members bravely answer the call to serve our nation,” said Tiberi. “The National Veterans Memorial and Museum is just one way we can honor them and their families, and ensure future generations know about the many sacrifices they made for us. As we approach Veterans Day, this is great news for Ohio’s veteran community.” The museum, located at 300 West Broad Street in Columbus, Ohio, will serve as a civic landmark to honor, connect, inspire and educate all Americans about the service and sacrifice of our nation’s more than 22 million veterans. It will be the only public museum of its kind that exists for the exclusive role of sharing the experiences of veterans across all eras, conflicts and branches of the military. The museum broke ground for construction in December 2015, following the generous donations from Les and Abigail Wexner, the State of Ohio, Franklin County, and many other foundations and corporations. The grand opening date for the National Veterans Memorial and Museum is expected to be in the summer 2018. The entire Ohio Delegation, Representatives Steve Chabot (R-OH), Brad Wenstrup (R-OH), Robert E. Latta (R-OH), Bill Johnson (R-OH), Bob Gibbs (R-OH), Warren Davidson (R-OH), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Mike Turner (R-OH), Marcia Fudge (D-OH), Tim Ryan (D-OH), David Joyce (R-OH), Jim Renacci (R-OH), and Jim Jordan (R-OH), are cosponsors of this legislation. Here is what some of the cosponsors are saying about this bill: “Ohio has a proud history in honoring our nation’s veterans and supporting our current men and women in uniform. Home to Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and having recently been selected to host the United States Veterans Affairs national archives, it is fitting that Ohio be place for telling the stories of our country’s heroes,” said Rep. Davidson. “As we approach Veterans Day, the passage of the National Veterans Memorial and Museum Act is an important gesture of thanks and gratitude to the millions of veterans across the country – including those right here in Ohio – who all put their country above self to fight for us. I applaud this effort as we recognize veterans for their service to this great nation and their patriotism throughout their lives,” said Rep. Wenstrup.
11.06.2017	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan today joined ‘Get Ohio Covered’ to host a press conference with State Representative Michele Lepore-Hagan, and Dr. Alexis Smith of Trinity Health Systems to get Ohioans to enroll during Open Enrollment. The Open Enrollment period began November 1, and residents have until December 15 to make a decision about their health insurance plans for 2018. After Trump Administration pulled support for marketing and local outreach, it is up to local communities to help residents sign up for coverage. Trained professionals are still available at 1-800-318-2596, or by visiting localhelp.healthcare.gov to make a one-on-one appointment. “Starting last week, millions of Americans started using Healthcare.gov to secure quality, affordable health insurance for themselves and their families. Last year, eight in ten individuals qualified for financial assistance to help reduce the cost of their premium – allowing most to only pay between $50 and $100 on their plan each month. In the wealthiest nation on earth, access to quality and affordable care is a right that every American should be afforded. This is an important open enrollment period. The Affordable Care Act is working, and I applaud all of the local government and nonprofit leaders here in Ohio and across the country who are stepping up to make sure their fellow citizens have the resources they need to make the right decision for themselves and their families,” said Congressman Ryan. Information About Open Enrollment: November 1st marks the start of HealthCare.gov’s(link is external) open enrollment period for 2018 coverage. From now until December 15, you can purchase a plan or renew your coverage through HealthCare.gov(link is external) . Once you sign up, you will get coverage that starts on January 1, 2018. Here are four facts you need to know about enrolling in coverage or renewing your coverage: The open enrollment period for HealthCare.gov(link is external) for 2018 begins on November 1 and ends on December 15. The open enrollment period is the shortest ever – only 45 days. Beat the rush and sign up early. Coverage could be more affordable than you think. That’s because financial help is available. During last year’s enrollment period, 8-in-10 people qualified for financial help – for most people that meant they could find insurance premiums between $50 and $100 per month. If you had coverage through HealthCare.gov(link is external) for 2017, make sure to head back to update your information and compare your options for 2018, by December 15. Every year, plans and prices change. This year, it’s more important than ever to shop around! You may find a plan that fits you better, for cheaper. Free help is available. If you have questions about signing up or want to talk through your options with a trained professional, free help is just a call or click away. The Call Center is open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week – call 1-800-318-2596. Or visithttps://localhelp.healthcare.gov(link is external) where you will find organizations in your area that have trained enrollment assisters.
11.06.2017	Washington, DC – Congressmen Tim Ryan (D-OH), Ryan Costello (R-PA), Dwight Evans (D-PA), and A. Donald McEachin (D-VA) introduced comprehensive legislation in the U.S. House to incentivizing food service providers such as grocers, retailers, and nonprofits to help eradicate food deserts. The bipartisan Healthy Food Access for All Americans (HFAAA) Act sets up a system of tax credits and grants for businesses and nonprofits who serve these low-income and low-access urban and rural areas. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), an estimated 37 million Americans live in food deserts. USDA defines a food desert as an area where a grocery store is not available within a mile in urban communities or 10 miles in rural areas. This bill expands on that definition by adding U.S. census tracts with a poverty rate of 20% (or higher) or a median family income of less than 80% of the median for the state or metro area. The legislation also defines a grocery market as a retail sales store with at least 35% of its selection (or forecasted selection) dedicated to selling fresh produce, poultry, dairy, and deli items. “Our food system is broken and ineffective. In a country where obesity and diabetes rates are skyrocketing, and where 37 million people live in food deserts, we cannot allow the status quo to continue. We must find new ways for all Americans to have access to fresh, healthy food. This legislation takes a big step in the right direction towards accomplishing that goal, and I’m proud to work with colleagues on both sides of the aisle in both chambers of Congress to get this done. Not only is it the right thing to do, but it makes economic sense to tackle a food system that is at the root of so much of our sky high healthcare costs,” said Congressman Ryan. "Access to nutritious food should be an important aspect of every life” said Rep. Costello. “Under this legislation, grocery stores, farmers markets, and food banks that provide fresh, healthy foods would be encouraged to open, offer a permanent presence, or make renovations to their stores in underserved areas. Nutritious foods are linked to positive health outcomes, and this legislation is a step forward in making sure families can access the nutrients and food they need to be successful.” “I truly believe when we change the narrative as it relates to healthy food options and provide greater access to nutritious food choices we can move the needle in terms of getting rid of food deserts, something I’ve focused a great deal of my time on throughout my entire career. This bill is an example of a way to use the tax code to incentivize food merchants to help close the grocery store gap and change behaviors. We know diet-related diseases, such as diabetes, heart disease, obesity, and others, have a direct correlation to the foods we eat and to critical nutrients missing from our diets. Today, I am proud to stand with my colleagues to introduce the Healthy Food Access for All Americans (HFAAA) Act. HFAAA is one of the tools in our toolbox that we can use to build healthier neighborhoods, block by block,” said Congressman Evans “Every person, regardless of where they live, deserves access to nutritious, affordable food yet thousands of families in my congressional district live in areas where food access is a problem. I am committed to addressing hunger and food insecurity, which is why I introduced the Healthy Food Access for all Americans Act with my colleagues,” said Congressman Donald McEachin (VA-04). “By creating incentives for food providers to establish themselves in communities without access to fresh foods, this commonsense bill will help my constituents secure healthier food options for themselves and their families. We must do everything we can to eliminate food deserts” The full list of organizations supporting the Healthy Food Access for All Americans (HFAAA) Act includes: Bread for the World, Environmental Working Group, Feeding America, Food Marketing Institute, Food Policy Action, Food Research and Action Center, the Food Trust, Local Initiatives Support Corporation, National Grocers Association, U.S. Conference of Mayors, the Reinvestment Fund, American Diabetes Association and Share Our Strength. In order to qualify for a tax credit or grant for servicing qualifying food deserts, business and nonprofits must be certified as a “Special Access Food Provider (SAFP) by the Treasury Department and USDA. The Healthy Food Access for All Americans Act qualifies as SAFPs those businesses and nonprofits who service food deserts through the following: New Store Construction: Companies that construct new grocery stores in a food desert will receive a onetime 15% tax credit (of the property plan and construction) after receiving certification from a regional CDE and Treasury/USDA as an SAFP. Retrofitting Existing Structures: Companies that make retrofits to an existing store’s healthy food sections can receive a onetime 10% tax credit after the repairs certify the store as an SAFP. Food Banks: Food banks that build new (permanent) structures in food deserts, will be eligible to receive a onetime grant for 15% of their construction costs, after certification as an SAFP. Temporary Access Merchants: Temporary access merchants (i.e. mobile markets, farmers markets, and some food banks) that are 501©(3)s will receive grants for 10% of their service costs for that year. To read the full text of the bill, click here. A summary can also be found here. For a map of areas in the United States that would qualify to be served as food deserts under this bill, click here. According to Feeding America, there are 124,320 food insecure people in Ohio’s 13th Congressional District. The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) defines food insecurity as a lack of consistent access to enough food for an active, healthy life.
11.06.2017	Youngstown, OH – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH-13) and US Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) joined Ohio retirees at Teamsters Local 377 to highlight the need to defend workers’ pensions. Numerous Ohio pension plans including the massive Central States Teamsters Pension Plan, the United Mine Workers Pension Plan, the Ironworkers Local 17 Pension Plan, the Ohio Southwest Carpenters Pension Plan and the Bakers and Confectioners Pension Plan are currently on the brink of failure and threatened by harmful laws that allow trustees to propose massive cuts. Last month, Congressman Ryan introduced the Prioritizing Our Workers (POWA) Act. This legislation revises the priorities section of the bankruptcy code to place unpaid vested benefits on the same level as bankruptcy attorneys’ fees and other highest-priority claims that a company must pay out in full before paying any other claims. Congressman Ryan’s bill would re-define claims for unfunded vested benefits in defined benefit pension plan as “administrative expenses” of the estate, which, under bankruptcy law, must be paid before all other claims. The bill puts pension benefits on the same level as bankruptcy attorneys’ fees and other highest-priority claims that a company must pay out in full BEFORE paying any other claims. “Hardworking Americans are the true profit creators in our country. Their work is why any company is able to earn a profit. Pensions are not ‘benefits’ given as a gift from employer to employee, they are payment for work that was already done – and neither government nor business has the right to take them away. We in Congress must be doing everything in our power to protect the retirement these Americans have earned,” Ryan said. Senator Brown introduced his plan to ensure that Ohio retirees can keep the pensions they have earned. “It’s bad enough that Wall Street squandered workers’ money – and it’s worse that the government that’s supposed to look out for these folks is trying to break the promise made to these workers. Not on our watch. We won’t allow that to happen,” Brown said. Under Brown’s proposal, pension plans applying for a PRA loan must demonstrate the loan would fully cover the plan’s liability and that the plan is expected to meet loan repayment obligations. To ensure that the pension plans can afford to repay the loans, the PRA would lend them money for 30 years at low interest rates, around 3 percent. The 30-year loans would buy time for the pension plans so they may invest for the long term instead of worrying about coming up with money immediately to pay for the pensions of retired workers. Plans that demonstrate that they cannot pay full benefits with the loan alone will receive additional help from the PBGC which will receive the resources needed to provide assistance. In 2016 alone, over 146, 000 individual pensioners have experienced cuts in their pensions benefits, and Congressman Ryan continues to play a lead role in fighting to protect these hard earned benefits in Congress: Congressman Ryan also joined Senator Manchin, Senator Capito, Congressman McKinley and Congressman Welch in introducing the American Miners Pension Act (AMP Act) which would ensure the 87,000 retired miners receiving pensions, as well as another 20,000 who are vested, won’t lose their pensions benefits under the 1974 UMWA Pension Plan which will soon be insolvent. Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) also joined Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT) in introducing The Keep Our Pension Promises Act, which would reverse a provision passed in 2014 that could result in deep pension cuts for millions of retirees and workers in multi-employer pension plans. The new legislation establishes a legacy fund within the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation to ensure that multi-employer pension plans can continue to provide pension benefits to every eligible American for decades to come. This legislation is paid for by closing two tax loopholes that allow the wealthiest Americans to avoid paying their fair share of taxes.
11.03.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to the publication released this week by the American Federation of Teachers and the Badass Teachers Association. The report is the result of a survey of nearly 5,000 educators, and shows that nearly two-thirds of educators usually feel stressed out, twice the level felt by workers in the general population. A study released by UCLA earlier this month shows that since Trump’s inauguration, high school teachers are reporting an increasing problem of stress, anxiety and bullying among their students. Main points from the 2017 Educator Quality of Work Life Survey are: Nearly two-thirds (61%) of educators usually feel stressed out, twice that felt by workers in the general population. Most surveyed feel demoralized and disrespected by state and federal officials; 86 percent felt most disrespected by Betsy DeVos. The primary workplace stressors are the adoption of new initiatives without proper training or professional development, mandated curriculum and standardized tests. “This report paints a bleak picture of the state of affairs being faced by our teachers. Before they can take care of our students, teachers must take care of themselves. Their important work can be mentally taxing, and having the tools available to manage these stresses is crucial to making sure our students are getting a first-rate education,” said Rep. Ryan. “That is why I was proud to introduce the Teacher Health and Wellness Act, legislation which provides support for teachers by creating a pilot study at the National Institute of Health aimed at reducing teacher stress, increasing teacher health and ultimately boosting student achievement. I will always fight to make sure educators have the support they need to help themselves, and our kids, succeed.” Congressman Tim Ryan recently authored this Op-Ed in The Hill discussing his teacher stress legislation, and why its passage is important. You can learn more about the legislation here. Congressman Ryan successfully got language included in the Fiscal Year 2018 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill that encourages the Director of the NIH to promote a study on reducing teacher stress and wellbeing. This bill passed the House and is awaiting action in the Senate. You can see a link to the language here.
11.03.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today issued the following statement after House Republicans finally passed a partisan bill that reauthorizes the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) at the expense of other important programs. Legislation awaits Senate action. “It has been thirty four days since Republicans in Congress recklessly let funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) expire for no reason other than their own dysfunction. Reauthorizing this important program, which provides millions of children with access to needed healthcare, should be the least partisan thing this Congress could do. Sadly, Speaker Ryan decided to ram through a bitterly partisan reauthorization bill that slashes the Prevention and Public Health Fund, sabotages the Affordable Care Act, and raises Medicare premiums. The Republicans own this disaster, and I’m disheartened that they see the need to make children suffer to bail themselves out of it. That is why I voted against this bill, and implore GOP leadership to bring a clean reauthorization bill to the House Floor so we can give families the security they need,” said Congressman Ryan.
11.03.2017	Ravenna, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan today urged the Portage Country Board of Developmental Disabilities to return to the bargaining table with the Ohio Education Association. Since October 4, 2017, the Service and Support Administrators (SSAs) have been on strike, expressing sincere hope that the Board will return to the bargaining table to negotiate in good faith. While negotiations are difficult, they can, and should whenever possible, be conducted within a normal working environment. Ryan sent the following letter today to the Portage County Board of Developmental Disabilities. Find letter here. Text of letter can be found below: November 3, 2017 Mr. Ralph Kletzien President Portage County Board of Developmental Disabilities Dennis M. Coble Administration Building, Board Office 2606 Brady Lake Road Ravenna, OH 44266-1657 Dear Mr. Kletzien, I write to offer my support for a quick and fair resolution to the ongoing labor dispute between the Ohio Education Association and the Portage County Board of Developmental Disabilities. The history of American labor movement is largely marked by long periods of relative peace and cooperation. Understandably, the labor disruption is very perplexing and troubling to the workers, their families and constituents in the district. The negotiating process was created to prevent costly and unnecessary disruptions in labor and management relations. It also serves to maintain the fundamental dignity of working people, and provide management with a skilled and stable workforce. Since October 4, 2017, the Service and Support Administrators (SSAs) have been on strike, expressing sincere hope that the Board will return to the bargaining table. While negotiations are difficult, they can, and should whenever possible, be conducted within a normal working environment. I understand that the community, specifically those served by Portage County Board of DD, are concerned about the current strike. Many of the clients and the SSAs have developed long-standing relationships and the strike has brought about undue stress and concern. It is my understanding that the SSAs want to return to work without delay – to serve the people they have dedicated their careers advocating for. Workers above all want to be treated with dignity and respect – collective bargaining provides an avenue to reach a fair and equitable contract on both sides. I am hopeful that you and your negotiating team will return to the good faith bargaining process. Concerted and continuing efforts to reach an agreement will benefit the workers, the Board, and the community you serve. Thank you for your time and consideration. Sincerely, Tim Ryan
11.02.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to the newly released Republican tax proposal. “It should come as no surprise that the legislation Republicans revealed today falls far short of the meaningful tax reform hardworking Americans were promised. Instead of fixing our broken tax system, their idea of ‘reform’ relies on the same supply-side, trickle-down economics that has failed in the past. Despite years of Republicans lecturing about fiscal responsibility, they readily admit that their plan will add $1.5 trillion to the national debt. It gives huge tax cuts to wealthy elites—those who reaped the most benefit from our economic recovery—on the backs of a squeezed and struggling middle class. Most devastating for working-class Americans, the Republican plan will provide tax breaks for large corporations to move their operations overseas. “I have said previously that Republicans and Democrats have an opportunity to work together on tax reform, to make taxes simpler, fairer and more competitive. Instead of taking advantage of this opening, Republicans have created a tax structure that benefits themselves, their wealthy donors, and—not surprisingly—President Trump himself. I won’t stand for it. These tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires will blow a massive hole in our deficit and will mean drastic cuts to important programs that give a much-needed hand up to hardworking families who want a fair shot at the American Dream. This tax plan will not make America great. It will make America worse for everybody who is not already rich,” said Congressman Ryan.
11.01.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in recognition of the first day of the open enrollment period. The period runs from November 1 through December 15 in 42 states, with 8 states and DC having longer enrollment periods: “Starting today, millions of Americans will use Healthcare.gov to secure quality, affordable health insurance for themselves and their families. Last year, eight in ten individuals qualified for financial assistance to help reduce the cost of their premium – allowing most to only pay between $50 and $100 on their plan each month. In the wealthiest nation on earth, access to quality and affordable care is a right that every American should be afforded. This is an important day. The Affordable Care Act is working, and I will continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to continue to lower premiums and expand access to life saving and preventative care. I would hope that our goal is shared by all who are in public service and elected office,” said Congressman Ryan. Information About Open Enrollment: November 1st marks the start of HealthCare.gov’s open enrollment period for 2018 coverage. From now until December 15, you can purchase a plan or renew your coverage through HealthCare.gov . Once you sign up, you will get coverage that starts on January 1, 2018. Here are four facts you need to know about enrolling in coverage or renewing your coverage: The open enrollment period for HealthCare.gov for 2018 begins on November 1 and ends on December 15. The open enrollment period is the shortest ever – only 45 days. Beat the rush and sign up early. Coverage could be more affordable than you think. That’s because financial help is available. During last year’s enrollment period, 8-in-10 people qualified for financial help – for most people that meant they could find insurance premiums between $50 and $100 per month. If you had coverage through HealthCare.gov for 2017, make sure to head back to update your information and compare your options for 2018, by December 15. Every year, plans and prices change. This year, it’s more important than ever to shop around! You may find a plan that fits you better, for cheaper. Free help is available. If you have questions about signing up or want to talk through your options with a trained professional, free help is just a call or click away. The Call Center is open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week – call 1-800-318-2596. Or visit https://localhelp.healthcare.gov where you will find organizations in your area that have trained enrollment assisters.
10.31.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released this statement after reviewing White House Chief of Staff John Kelly’s Fox News interview in which he refused to apologize to Congresswoman Frederica Wilson for publicly defaming her and made historically inaccurate statements about the Civil War. “General John Kelly’s entire adult life has been dedicated to the service and protection of our nation. That service should be commended at the highest levels, but that does not absolve him for making insensitive and historically inaccurate remarks about Robert E. Lee and the cause of the Civil War. I had hoped General Kelly would bring stability to a White House spinning out of control. Instead he has picked up some of President Trump’s worst habits. Furthermore, his continued refusal to apologize to Congresswoman Wilson for making false and defamatory statements about her, even in the face of demonstrable video evidence, is a huge breach of public trust – something of which the Trump Administration has become all too familiar. He should apologize and work to repair the damage he has caused,” said Congressman Ryan.
10.30.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement after news that former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort and associate Rick Gates have been ordered to surrender to federal custody today. Former Trump campaign adviser George Papadopoulos was also revealed to have plead guilty to lying to the FBI about his knowledge of Russian attempts to collude with the Trump Campaign. “This morning’s indictments by Special Prosecutor Robert Mueller only further highlights the seriousness of this ongoing investigation. There is no doubt that the credibility of the United States has already been tarnished by revelations of high-level corruption and malintent from senior Trump campaign advisors. Today’s developments underscore the critical nature of Mueller’s work in restoring faith in our democratic institutions, and the need for it to continue unimpeded at all costs. Any move by the Trump Administration or Congressional Republicans to interfere with or derail the investigation would trigger a constitutional crisis, the likes of which we haven’t seen since Richard Nixon,” said Congressman Ryan.
10.26.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released this statement following President Trump’s declaration of a Public Health Emergency in response to the opioid addiction epidemic. “While I support the President in finally taking this action—something I urged him to do in six months ago—if we are going to make a real impact on the opioid epidemic President Trump and Congressional Republicans need to put their money where their mouth is. Unfortunately, the Public Health Emergency Fund, which today’s announcement makes available, only has $57,000 in its coffers. I have urged, and will continue to urge, President Trump and Congress to provide the billions of dollars in additional funding needed to our local officials, emergency rooms, treatment facilities, child care services, law enforcement, and morgues. Without the funding to implement it, a Public Health Emergency alone will not be enough to end this crisis. I call on the Administration and Republicans in Congress to bring up an emergency spending bill immediately so that these communities have the money they need to actually save lives and make a difference.” Congressman Tim Ryan is the Co-Chair of the Bipartisan Congressional Addiction, Treatment, and Recovery Caucus, and a member of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force. Other Opioid Addiciton Actions by Congressman Ryan: Rep. Ryan sent President Trump a letter on April 19, 2017 asking President Trump to do this exact action – declare a Public Health Emergency. Rep. Ryan sent President Trump a letter with other Members of Congress on September 19, 2017 to call a National Emergency and lower prices for Naloxone. Rep. Ryan sent President Trump a letter with other Members of Congress on August 7, 2017 calling out the lack of funding in the Public Health Emergency Fund and requesting the Administration to call on Congress to ask for emergency appropriations and to cease their efforts to repeal the ACA. In the 114th Congress, Rep. Ryan joined Senator Portman, Senator Whitehouse, and Congressman Sensenbrenner in introducing the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act(CARA), which leverages evidence-based law enforcement and health care services, including treatment that can be used to stop and reverse current trends. On July 22, 2016 CARA was signed into law. Rep. Ryan led a letter urging President Trump to include $9.3 billion in his Fiscal Year 2018 budget for 34 Administration programs at Department of Health and Human Services, Office of National Drug Control Policy and the Department of Justice. Rep. Ryan introduced the Stop Trafficking in Fentanyl Act – increase penalties for fentanyl trafficking Rep. Ryan and Rep. Dave Joyce (R-OH) in introducing the STOP OD Act – which is designed to help stop synthetic drugs like fentanyl and carentanil from being shipped through our borders to drug traffickers in the United States Rep. Ryan introduced the Prescription Drug Monitoring Act – which takes important steps to bring states closer to fully interoperable Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs (PDMPs), to faster respond to inquiries and to better serve the public. Rep. Ryan and Rep. Marcia Fudge introduced the Breaking Addiction Act, which takes steps to increase access to treatment by making changes to the IMD exclusion for substance abuse facilities. Under current law, the Institutions for Mental Diseases (IMD) exclusion prohibits Medicaid matching payments for services provided in treatment facilities that have more than 16 beds. The Breaking Addiction Act removes this outdated policy, allowing states to better utilize Medicaid to serve more people.
10.26.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan voted against the Republican Fiscal Year 2018 Budget Resolution today. This legislation, which was needed by Republican Leadership to use as a vehicle for reconciliation for the Ryan-McConnell tax plan, makes massive cuts to valuable social programs and economic imperatives to offset huge tax cuts for the wealthy. Using reconciliation, Republicans can pass the GOP tax plan in the Senate with only 51 votes, rather than 60. “This Republican budget is nothing more than a laundry list of broken promises. Congressional Republicans would hand tax breaks to billionaires, and pay for them on the backs of senior citizens and hardworking Americans. This budget is devastating to our long-term stability, will stifle innovation, and suppress job creation. In a normal political climate this legislation should have been a nonstarter. Every Republican who voted YES today, voted to increase the national deficit by $1.5 trillion. Voted to slash Medicare by $473 billion and Medicaid by $1 trillion. Voted to gut funding to repair our nation’s infrastructure by nearly $200 billion. And voted to cut Pell Grants by more than $100 billion, making college less affordable for nearly 8 million working class students. This Budget Resolution, and the tax plan it paves the way for, does nothing to position the United States for long term economic growth. In fact it achieves the opposite,” said Congressman Ryan. The Budget Resolution passed in a 216-212 vote, with every Democrat and 20 Republicans voting no.
10.24.2017	Washington, DC – Bipartisan legislation cosponsored by Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) aimed at combating the role fentanyl plays in the opioid epidemic overwhelmingly passed the House of Representatives today, in a vote of 412 to 3. The lead authors of this bill were Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (D-MA) and Congressman Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA). The International Narcotics Trafficking Emergency Response by Detecting Incoming Contraband with Technology (INTERDICT) Act, or H.R. 2142, provides U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) the latest in chemical screening devices and scientific support to detect and intercept fentanyl and other synthetic opioids. “During my time in Congress I have met with countless local public safety and law enforcement officials from Ohio and across the country who have expressed an urgent need for more resources to combat drugs like fentanyl. This legislation directly addresses the needs of these officials. The rise of synthetic opioids are compounding the devastation already being caused by the heroin and opioid addiction epidemic. Providing Customs and Border Protection (CBP) with appropriate technologically advanced equipment will improve their ability to stop these harmful drugs at their point of entry, before they’re ever allowed onto our streets. I was proud to cosponsor this important legislation, and was heartened to see the urgency of this problem reflected in the overwhelming final vote of passage,” said Congressman Ryan. The INTERDICT Act was introduced in the Senate on a bipartisan basis by Senators Edward J. Markey (D-MA), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV). The INTERDICT Act: Ensures that CBP will have additional portable chemical screening devices available at ports of entry and mail and express consignment facilities, and additional fixed chemical screening devices available in CBP laboratories. Provides CBP with resources, personnel, and facilities — including scientists available during all operational hours — to interpret screening test results from the field. Authorizes the appropriation of $9 million for new screening devices, laboratory equipment, facilities, and personnel for support during all operational hours. Fentanyl is a deadly synthetic opioid that can be up to 50 times stronger than heroin and 100 times stronger than morphine. Although pharmaceutical fentanyl can be misused, most fentanyl deaths are linked to illicitly manufactured fentanyl and illicit versions of chemically similar compounds known as fentanyl analogs. The primary source of fentanyl is outside of the United States, in Mexico or China. The drug is smuggled in across the U.S. border or delivered via mail or express consignment couriers. Fentanyl can also be ordered online. Because of its potency, fentanyl typically comes in small amounts, making it more difficult for authorities to detect. Congressman Tim Ryan is the Co-Chair of the Bipartisan Congressional Addiction, Treatment, and Recovery Caucus, and a member of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force. Other Opioid Addiciton Legislative Actions by Congressman Ryan: In the 114th Congress, Rep. Ryan joined Senator Portman, Senator Whitehouse, and Congressman Sensenbrenner in introducing the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act(CARA), which leverages evidence-based law enforcement and health care services, including treatment that can be used to stop and reverse current trends. On July 22, 2016 CARA was signed into law. Rep. Ryan led a letter urging President Trump to include $9.3 billion in his Fiscal Year 2018 budget for 34 Administration programs at Department of Health and Human Services, Office of National Drug Control Policy and the Department of Justice. Rep. Ryan introduced the Stop Trafficking in Fentanyl Act – increase penalties for fentanyl trafficking Rep. Ryan and Rep. Dave Joyce (R-OH) in introducing the STOP OD Act – which is designed to help stop synthetic drugs like fentanyl and carentanil from being shipped through our borders to drug traffickers in the United States Rep. Ryan introduced the Prescription Drug Monitoring Act – which takes important steps to bring states closer to fully interoperable Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs (PDMPs), to faster respond to inquiries and to better serve the public. Rep. Ryan and Rep. Marcia Fudge introduced the Breaking Addiction Act, which takes steps to increase access to treatment by making changes to the IMD exclusion for substance abuse facilities. Under current law, the Institutions for Mental Diseases (IMD) exclusion prohibits Medicaid matching payments for services provided in treatment facilities that have more than 16 beds. The Breaking Addiction Act removes this outdated policy, allowing states to better utilize Medicaid to serve more people.
10.19.2017	(Washington, DC) – Today Representatives Tim Ryan (OH-13), Annie Kuster (NH-02), Evan Jenkins (WV-03), and Jim Cooper (TN-05) introduced bipartisan legislation to improve the ability of the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) to pursue bad actors for distribution of prescription opioids. The legislation would repeal provisions of the Ensuring Patient Access and Effective Drug Enforcement Act, which have hampered DEA’s efforts to stop the delivery of opioids and other medications to suspicious distributors. The legislation is a companion bill to legislation introduced by Senator Claire McCaskill in the Senate. “It is clear that the Ensuring Patient Access and Effective Drug Enforcement Act of 2016 has significantly and adversely affected the Federal Government’s ability to crack down on opioid distributors that are endangering communities across the country,” said Congressman Ryan. “I am proud to introduce this legislation with Congresswoman Kuster, Congressman Jenkins, and Congressman Cooper which would repeal provisions of the legislation and restore the Drug Enforcement Administration’s authority to prohibit opioid manufacturers from flooding communities suffering from addiction with more pills.” “At a time when the opioid epidemic is impacting communities across the country, it’s critical that no tools are taken off the table,” said Congresswoman Kuster. “We know that the opioid crisis has in part been fueled by the over prescribing of opioid pain medications and any limitations on the DEA’s ability to get unneeded prescription drugs off the street must be eliminated. I’m pleased that we’ve been able to come together in a bipartisan fashion to introduce this bill to repeal provisions of the Ensuring Patient Access and Effective Drug Enforcement Act, which DEA officials cite as restricting their ability to do their job.” “We need a DEA that is fully empowered to enforce opioid regulations and crack down on irresponsible distributors,” said Congressman Jenkins. “I’m proud to join with Reps. Kuster and Ryan to introduce this bill to repeal provisions of the Ensuring Patient Access and Effective Drug Enforcement Act and ensure bad actors are held responsible for their role in the opioid epidemic in our communities.”
10.18.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released this statement after Senators Lamar Alexander (R-TN) and Patty Murray (D-WA) announced a bipartisan agreement to stabilize insurance marketplaces for the next two years. The plan takes a strong first step to stabilize the insurance marketplaces, lower premiums and provide additional state flexibility while ensuring protections for those living with pre-existing conditions and for low-income populations. This legislation would not allow states to change the essential health benefits insurers are now required to offer individuals and small businesses under the ACA or let insurers discriminate against consumers with pre-existing conditions. The agreement also restores $106 million for outreach and enrollment activities to bolster participation in ACA marketplaces. “Access to quality, affordable healthcare is a right, not a privilege. The ability to lead healthy, fulfilling lives is the corner stone of the American Dream, and the government has a role to play in making that possible when the market fails to do so. While I would prefer to see a long-term solution to stabilize the markets and provide relief to consumers and insurers, this deal is a step in the right direction. It is time Congress and the Trump Administration provide the healthcare security and reassurance so many families need, instead of actively trying to sabotage a healthcare system that is working. I look forward to reviewing this bipartisan legislation and urge Republican leadership in Congress to swiftly put this agreement up for a vote,” said Congressman Ryan.
10.18.2017	Washington, DC – Over the last seven years, Salad Bars to Schools, a partnership founded by United Fresh Start Foundation, Whole Foods Market, Chef Ann Foundation and the National Fruit and Vegetable Alliance has granted more than 5,000 school salad bars, investing over $12 million across all 50 states and providing over 3 million children with daily access to fresh fruits and vegetables. In Ohio’s 13th Congressional District alone, 12 salad bars have been placed through this program in the following schools: Number of Salad Bars School District City State 4 in Marlington Local Schools Alliance, OH 2 in Brookfield Local School District Brookfield, OH 4 in Tallmadge City Schools Tallmadge, OH 2 in Lordstown Schools Warren, OH "Healthy options in the lunchroom are critical to unlocking success in the classroom. There is no better way to ensure that success than through more salad bars in schools. That is why I have made it a legislative priority to help make salad bars more accessible and affordable for schools throughout the country. I am proud of the work the Salad Bars to Schools program has done to increase access to fruits and vegetables for students across the country and in my district, and am proud to continue our partnership,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. When kids have access to a salad bar at school, they eat more produce (The Pew Charitable Trusts), and eating nutritious food is linked to their academic success (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention); specifically, higher grades and standardized test scores, reduced absenteeism and improved cognitive performance. For these reasons, school salad bars are in high demand. Not only is having nutritious food accessible to students good for their health and education, it’s also financially smart. The cost for one freestanding, mobile salad bar grant is about $3,000. This includes everything a school needs to get started: the bar, chill pads, pans and tongs. Each salad bar can serve a school for 10 years, which makes it incredibly cost effective with the true cost being about $0.01 per child, per day. “We are proud to celebrate the milestone of having funded our 5,000th salad bar,” said Tom Stenzel, United Fresh Start Foundation CEO. “Thanks to the leadership and commitment of the fresh produce industry, more than 1,800 school districts are providing fresh choices for our kids through this program.” About United Fresh Start Foundation The United Fresh Start Foundation is a 501 (c)(3) not-for-profit organization focused exclusively on increasing children’s access to fresh fruits and vegetables. Affiliated with the United Fresh Produce Association, the Foundation is committed to helping today’s kids achieve the public health goal to make half their plate fruits and vegetables to live longer, healthier lives. The Foundation works to create an environment in which kids have easy access to high-quality, great-tasting and affordable fresh fruits and vegetables, whenever and wherever they are choosing snacks or a meal. More information at: www.unitedfreshstart.org. Previous Legislative Work on Salad Bars: In the 114th Congress, language from Congressman Ryan’s Salad Bar in Schools Expansion Act was included in the Senate Improving Child Nutrition Integrity and Access Act of 2016, which required the Secretary of Agriculture to ensure that school food authorities develop and implement a plan to encourage the use of salad bars and provide training and technical assistance to eligible entities to assist in establishing salad bars in schools. Earlier this year Congressman Ryan was able to include language in the FY18 Agriculture Appropriations bill that will allow schools to purchase durable equipment for salad bars, food preparation, handling, cooking serving and storage with a value of greater than $1,000 with federal grants. This equipment will help to serve healthier meals, improve food safety, and to help support the establishment, maintenance, or expansion of the school breakfast program. This bill passed the House as part of the Omnibus Appropriations Bill (HR 3354).
10.13.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released this statement following the announcement that President Trump would not certify the Iran Nuclear Agreement. This decision does not end the agreement outright, but instead kicks the issue back to Congress to decide whether or not to reimpose sanctions on Iran. President Trumps announcement puts the Iran Deal in jeopardy. “I wish containing Iran’s nuclear ambitions was a task as easy as some politicians make it seem. The Iran Nuclear Agreement is not perfect, but remains our best chance for lasting peace and nuclear nonproliferation in Iran. The United States did not stand alone in these efforts. We had the assistance and support of the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Russia, China, the United Nations, and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to reach this historic accord. There is no doubt that this deal is in the best interests of the United States and helps to neutralize a potential nuclear threat to the world. I am dismayed that President Trump would ignore his own national security experts and the IAEA, who all agree the deal is working to keep Americans and our allies safer. The President’s announcement is yet another example of the egregious mismanagement of our foreign policy, and does nothing to reassure our allies that the United States is leading with a steady hand. I believe President Trump is making a grave mistake by decertifying the Iran Nuclear Agreement, but I also feel passionately that Congress has the opportunity to do the right thing to avoid an international crisis and global instability,” said Congressman Ryan.
10.13.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released this statement following the Trump Administration’s announcement that the President would halt, unilaterally, cost-sharing reduction payments required under the Affordable Care Act. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that ending these payments will increase American’s premiums by 20 percent or more. “This is a shameful act of sabotage that will send healthcare premiums soaring. Let’s be perfectly clear - from this moment on, President Trump is now personally responsible for increases in the cost of health insurance or loss of coverage. The callousness of his decision to attack the insurance market for petty political reasons is unrivaled in recent memory. These people aren’t just statistics on paper. These are mothers, fathers, and children trying to get the care they need to live happy, healthy lives. “President Trump promised to help people in this country who were struggling to pay the bills, but we can add that promise to the long list of lies told to the American people. By this action, the President is reaching into people’s wallets and robbing them of what little income they have left. It’s a pathetic show of petulance from a President who is frustrated with his own legislative impotence. And now, all of America is paying the cost of President Trump’s own personal insecurities,” said Congressman Ryan.
10.12.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement today in response to President Trump’s executive order designed to undermine and sabotage Americans’ access to quality, affordable healthcare. The executive order is meant to drive Americans into lower quality health insurance plans and prompt healthy people to exit insurance markets, which would cause premiums to increase for millions of Americans across the country. “Since he first announced his campaign for the presidency, I’ve heard President Trump falsely claim dozens of times that the Affordable Care Act was collapsing. Today, I am in disbelief that the President would so blatantly sabotage America’s healthcare system in order to make that falsehood a reality. His executive order will create a loophole that would allow insurers to sell watered-down insurance plans that do not cover essential health benefits like pregnancy coverage, mental healthcare, and cancer screenings. It dismantles coverage protections for people with pre-existing conditions and further disadvantages the sick and middle class. This executive order is a giant step backwards to a time where getting sick could bankrupt a family and people with pre-existing conditions couldn’t find coverage. This is a reckless, highly-political decision, one that puts the lives and well-being of all Americans at risk,” said Congressman Ryan. The executive order comes after President Trump and the Department of Health and Human Services gutted millions in funding for the Affordable Care Act’s in-person outreach program, which has helped the nation’s most vulnerable populations sign up for coverage and keep costs down for
10.12.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) and Joyce Beatty (OH-03) called on Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services Administrator Seema Verma to provide detailed answers regarding cuts in services and outreach programs that help citizens enroll in health care plans. This is in response to the Trump Administration’s handling of the upcoming open enrollment period. “The Administration’s actions regarding the Affordable Care Act (ACA) have thrown millions of families and individuals into uncertainty weeks before the open enrollment period begins, which the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has inexplicably condensed from 90 days to 45 days. We are concerned that actions taken by HHS will impact Americans and Ohioans alike,” said the Members. The Members detailed several concerning actions by the Administration which undermine the open enrollment process and requested more information on the following: The Administration cut the ACA Navigator program’s budget which resulted in the Ohio Association of Foodbanks exiting the navigator program due to a 71% funding reduction, leaving the state with no navigators, and laying off 54 area employees. HHS cut the ACA advertising budget by 90%, from $100 million to $10 million. CMS under the former Administration stated television advertisements proved to be the most cost-effective way to encourage enrollment, but the current Administration will not be running any TV ads this year. In September, HHS told its 10 regional directors not to participate in state-based education events before open enrollment. Many marketplace pre-enrollment events have already been planned for months, bringing together navigators, insurance brokers, state officials, and community health centers. HHS reported that HealthCare.gov, the federally operated marketplace, would be offline for all but one Sunday during the 45-day open enrollment period due to maintenance. Except for December 10, the site will be inaccessible between 12:00am and 12:00pm (EST) each Sunday and on Wednesday, November 1, the first day of open enrollment. The Members concluded their letter by saying, “While President Trump has repeatedly called for allowing the Affordable Care Act to ‘collapse’ it appears that the Administration is abdicating its legal responsibility to conduct outreach and assistance to help American families and individuals who simply wish to have access to health insurance coverage.” “Individuals will now be without the help they need to enroll in health care plans even though every American is required to have health insurance under current law, and face tax consequences if they fail to obtain coverage. This lack of support is due to arbitrary budget cuts, time restrictions, and ultimately a politicized process, which will not benefit the American people.” You can download a copy of the letter here.
10.11.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today announced a $2 million Economic Development Administration (EDA) grant to Youngstown State University. These EDA funds will help create the Mahoning Valley Innovation and Commercialization Center (MVICC) in downtown Youngstown. Specifically, these funds will support the renovation and construction of the high bay advanced manufacturing training space for the proposed Youngstown State University Excellence Training Center in Youngstown, Ohio. The project will create a space for advanced manufacturing training, instructional as well as general use, and will train displaced and disadvantaged workers on the most modern advanced manufacturing equipment available and support the need of highly skilled workers to local businesses. “This Federal investment is a gamechanger for Youngstown State University, the City of Youngstown, and the Mahoning Valley. Equipping workers and students with skills to be able to participate in the new American economy is one of the single most important investments we can make for long-term, sustainable growth for our community and the country. Workers with knowledge in advanced manufacturing and other STEM skills are in huge demand, and will play an integral role in solving our country’s big issues. I applaud Youngstown State for pushing this program, and working to better our entire community,” said Congressman Ryan. “This grant is yet another endorsement of and an important step towards a project we believe will help revolutionize manufacturing and workforce development in this region,” said YSU President Jim Tressel. The YSU MVICC is one of only 35 projects nationwide to receive a grant from EDA. It is the largest grant to a university among the group. Located in a building formerly owned by Mahoning County at the corner of Fifth Avenue and West Commerce Street, MVICC will be used to foster cross-collaborative interdisciplinary projects between STEM, business, healthcare, the arts and other fields. “The Excellence Training Center, a key component of the MVICC project, will house the most modern advanced manufacturing equipment available for training students with the necessary 21st century skills our manufacturers need to maintain competiveness in this fast changing, technologically-driven industry,” said Mike Hripko, YSU Associate Vice President for Research. This is the second federal grant for the project this year. In the spring, the Appalachian Regional Commission awarded YSU $1 million for the project. In addition, the state of Ohio had previously provided $3 million as cost share against the two awards. Hripko said the center, located in the former Mahoning County Misdemeanor Jail, will expose clients to a broad spectrum of career options and opportunities. Clients will be offered a variety of workforce development and educational pathways that will enable them to navigate from entry-level to highly skilled advanced manufacturing positions, enabling ongoing career versatility and adaptability. YSU is partnering in the project with several local entities, including the Eastern Gateway Community College, the Mahoning County Commissioners, the Mahoning Valley Manufacturers Coalition, Mahoning, Trumbull, Columbiana, and Youngstown Career and Technical Centers, and the Youngstown Business Incubator. The university received strong support from Eastgate Regional Council of Governments, Mahoning and Columbiana Training Association, Trumbull County Department of Job and Family Services, Workforce Development Board of Mahoning and Columbiana Counties, the Workforce Development Board of Trumbull County, Southwestern Pennsylvania Commission, Ohio Mid-Eastern Government Association and the Northwest Commission. YSU also received commitments from local manufacturers, including Kiraly Tool and Die, Starr Manufacturing, Brilex Industries, Bird Equipment, and Butech Bliss. The U.S. Economic Development Administration, an agency within the U.S. Department of Commerce, makes investments in economically distressed communities in order to create jobs for U.S. workers, promote American innovation, and accelerate long-term sustainable economic growth. ###
10.11.2017	Washington, DC – Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH) Tom Reed (R-NY), and Paul Tonko (D-NY) today introduced the Developing Tomorrow’s Engineering and Technical Workforce Act. This legislation would award grants to states educational agencies and local educational agencies to support, develop, and implement formal and informal engineering education programs in elementary schools and secondary schools. It will help provide school districts the resources to incorporate engineering and engineering technology education into their science standards. “One of the best ways to promote long-term economic growth and ensure that we can come up with solutions to our most pressing problems is to provide our students with the tools and education they need to become engineers and innovators. The problem is, there’s currently a workforce shortage of just those individuals,” said Rep. Tim Ryan. “Studies show that engineering education both in and after school can boost interest and improve learning in mathematics and science as well as improve understanding of engineering and technology. As we retool our economy for the twenty-first century, it is common sense that we should make engineering tools and programs available in schools across the country. Our kids will be better off for it, as will our country.” “We need to prepare our students for the jobs of today and tomorrow. This bill would incorporate engineering and engineering technology education into our classrooms. Resulting in our students being better equipped to pursue a career in these expanding fields. By providing the proper training we are working to close the skills gap that we are currently seeing in our workforce,” said Rep. Reed. “Our global economy is being driven by the achievements and visionary work of the world’s greatest scientists and engineers. As an engineer myself, I know the impact we could have if we empower America’s schools to teach engineering as part of the core curriculum. Making these investments in our students now will not only strengthen their ability to secure good jobs, contribute to their community and support loved ones later in life, it will also help the United States become more globally competitive and remain the world’s leading economy long into the future. My congratulations and thanks to my friend Congressman Tim Ryan for his leadership in advancing this forward-looking legislation,” said Rep. Tonko. This legislation is supported by the following groups: American Society for Engineering Education, Heroes’ Alliance, National Council for Advanced Manufacturing, National Society of Professional Engineers, Pennsylvania State University, Youngstown State University, Society of Automotive Engineers, Carnegie Melon University, National Academy of Forensic Engineers.
10.06.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s move to limit access to women’s birth control by lifting the Obama-era rule requiring healthcare plans cover contraceptives. The Trump Administration issued a new rule today that rolls back an Affordable Care Act requirement that guarantees contraception at no cost. This rule would allow employers to opt out of covering birth control in their health insurance if they have moral or religious objections. “Thanks to the Affordable Care Act and the contraceptive mandate, more than 62 million women gained access to birth control without the burden of co-payments. In the face of this progress, I’m outraged, but not surprised that the President is attacking women’s health. This isn’t about religious freedom, this is about scoring cheap political points. Access to birth control is not and should never be a controversial issue. Birth control should be a universal right not only in the United States, but across the world. It may be useless to call on the President to reverse this deeply hurtful ruling, but I will redouble my efforts to work with my colleagues in the Congress to counteract this irresponsible decision,” said Congressman Ryan.
10.05.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today introduced the Prioritizing Our Workers (POWA) Act. This legislation revises the priorities section of the bankruptcy code to place unpaid vested benefits on the same level as bankruptcy attorneys’ fees and other highest-priority claims that a company must pay out in full before paying any other claims. Congressman Donald Norcross (D-NJ) is an original co-sponsor in the House, and Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV) has introduced companion legislation in the Senate. “Pensions are not ‘benefits’ given as a gift from employer to employee, they represent payment for work that was already done. In 2016 alone, over 146,000 individual pensioners experienced cuts in their pension benefits. This is a clear breach of contract and these hardworking men and women are being robbed. It’s that simple. Every day these Americans went to work with the understanding that their future was secure with the benefits they were promised. American retirees should never have to doubt their financial security after a lifetime spent building our great county. I am proud to support this bill,” said Congressman Ryan. "If you work hard and play by the rules, you should be able afford to care for your family and retire with dignity. Hard-working men and women expect to receive the pensions they earned and were promised by their employers," said Congressman Norcross, an electrician by trade. "These workers already did their part: they worked day in and day out giving back to their community. Now, we must do our part in Congress to ensure workers and their families aren't being cheated." “American bankruptcy laws are a travesty for working families, who are left with nothing when a company goes bankrupt while the big banks and corporate executives walk away with millions. It is long past time for Congress to take action to reform bankruptcy laws. Congressman Ryan's bill takes a huge step toward leveling the playing field for workers, and we support it wholeheartedly,” said Cecil Roberts, International President of the United Mine Workers of America. Workers who choose to make contributions to a pension plan are electing to set aside a portion of their wages in order to earn pension benefits in their retirement. Yet, when a business who sponsors one of these funds goes out of business, it is often the pensioners who are left with losses. The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) estimates 146,000 individual pensioners experienced cuts in pension benefits due in 2016 as a result of employer bankruptcies. The Prioritizing Our Workers Act would re-define claims for unfunded vested benefits in defined benefit pension plan as “administrative expenses” of the estate, which, under bankruptcy law, must be paid before all other claims. The bill puts pension benefits on the same level as bankruptcy attorneys’ fees and other highest-priority claims that a company must pay out in full BEFORE paying any other claims. Yesterday, Congressman Ryan also joined Senator Manchin, Senator Capito, Congressman McKinley and Congressman Welch in introducing the American Miners Pension Act (AMP Act) which would ensure the 87,000 retired miners receiving pensions, as well as another 20,000 who are vested, won’t lose their pensions benefits under the 1974 UMWA Pension Plan which will soon be insolvent. This bill would: Uses the provision from the Miners Protection Act to allow transfers of excess funds in the Abandoned Mine Land program to the 1974 UMWA pension plan. Direct the Treasury Department to loan the Pension Plan funds annually. Cap the annual loan amount at $600 million and set the interest rate at 1%. Require the fund to pay interest for the first 10 years and then pay back the principal plus interest over a 30-year term. Require the fund to certify each year that the pension plan is solvent and able to pay back the principal and interest.
10.05.2017	Washington, DC - Reps. Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Tom Reed (R-NY), along with Sens. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), have introduced a bipartisan, bicameral resolution to recognize the first Friday in October as “Manufacturing Day.” This year Manufacturing Day will be Friday, October 6. Celebrating Manufacturing Day annually recognizes the industry for its contribution to the U.S. economy, raises awareness for important investment and career opportunities within the sector, allows communities to engage with their local businesses, and better educates Americans on the importance of manufacturing. “American manufacturing is the lifeblood of our economy, and the backbone of our middle class. Our manufacturing sector employs 9% of the United States workforce, and makes up 12% of our GDP -- its importance cannot be overstated. Manufacturing plays a critical role in almost every part of our economy, stretching from construction to pharmaceuticals; transportation to agriculture. I am proud to join my colleagues in recognizing this vital sector of our economy, and the men and women who work in it each and every day,” said Congressman Ryan. “U.S. manufacturing means good paying jobs for hard-working people across the U.S.,” Congressman Reed stated. “Having a day of recognition will further enhance the significance of the industry. The sector deserves to be acknowledged for its importance to our economy and the quality jobs it brings to our communities.” “Manufacturing is a backbone of the South Carolina and national economy,” said Senator Graham. “That’s why I’m glad to join my colleagues in introducing this bipartisan resolution to recognize ‘Manufacturing Day’ that celebrates the importance of manufacturing across the United States.” “We don’t have an economy or a middle class unless we make things and grow things,” said Senator Stabenow. “As we mark Manufacturing Day this Friday, I will continue to be laser focused on helping manufacturers create more jobs in Michigan and supporting our talented workers and businesses.” Other co-sponsors added: “Connecticut’s economy is built on a proud tradition of manufacturing. For generations, our manufacturers have provided the kinds of good, stable jobs that support families, and today, over 5,000 of them drive our state’s economy. Manufacturing keeps our country safe, our local economies healthy, and our good-paying jobs secure. This resolution honors the contributions of American manufacturers and encourages our colleagues on both sides of the aisle to do all they can to support their efforts,” Congresswoman Esty stated. The manufacturing industry contributes $2.17 trillion to the U.S. economy and employs 12.3 million hard-working Americans. This resolution is supported by key groups such as the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM), Manufacturing Alliance of Communities (MAC), Society of Manufacturing Engineers (SME), Automation Federation, Reshoring Initiative, American Society of Mechanical Engineering (ASME), MForesight, and IEEE-USA. To learn more about Manufacturing Day please visit www.mfgday.com. ###
10.04.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) joined Reps. Stephanie Murphy (D-FL), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Jimmy Panetta (D-CA) and other members to urge President Donald Trump to pursue a “strong, strategic, and steady” policy towards North Korea, which has been developing and testing nuclear devices and missiles in defiance of U.N. Security Council resolutions. A total of 68 Members of Congress signed the letter. North Korea’s dangerous and destabilizing actions are the root cause of tensions between North Korea and the international community, but the President’s reckless rhetoric and muddled messages to allies have made the problem worse. Members state that “the U.S. can maximize the chance of success by charting a careful course that avoids capitulation to, or catastrophic war with, North Korea.” According the Democratic Caucus’ National Security Task Force, U.S. strategy toward North Korea should include: increase economic pressure on North Korea through the imposition and effective enforcement of sanctions; enhance crisis-management channels with North Korea and be prepared to engage in tough, principled negotiations with Pyongyang without preconditions; strengthen, rather than subvert, our alliances with South Korea, Japan and other regional partners; nominate or name qualified individuals to critical, unfilled positions at the Department of State and the Department of Defense; and continue to make clear to North Korea—through a variety of means—that an attack on the U.S. or its allies in the region will produce unacceptable consequences for the North Korean regime. “The President’s handling of North Korea since assuming office has been reckless and shortsighted. His approach has been defined by childish remarks and knee-jerk reactions with no clear strategic goals to guide him. United States policy should be thoughtful, consistent, and effective. Foreign policy is not a game, and is not something to conducted by Twitter. Our allies need to know they can count on us to lead. Laying out a clear strategy for North Korea in the spirit of this letter is vital to assuring the world that America is leading with a steady hand,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Responsibility for addressing the serious threat from North Korea lies squarely with the Trump administration,” said Murphy. “I am concerned by the President’s approach to date, which has been characterized more by tough talk than by strong, smart, and steady actions that make our country and our allies safer. U.S. policy toward North Korea should consist of economic pressure, strong and steady diplomacy, and credible deterrence and defense.” “This administration has shown that it does not have a strategy when it comes to dealing with the threat of North Korea. The President is clearly not on the same page as his own Secretary of Defense and Secretary of State. This makes his military threats not credible; it leads our allies to view us as untrustworthy, right when they need us most; and by ratcheting up tensions, he is closing down diplomatic options when they are most critical,” said Moulton. “The Democratic National Security Task Force is stepping into the Administration’s leadership vacuum and has convened experts and devised strategy to provide a smarter, stronger approach to North Korea’s unacceptable behavior. As a Co-Chair of the task force, I am proud to be joined by other Democrats who are ready to provide steady leadership while President Trump’s bluster risks blundering us into a nuclear war.” “North Korea’s continued provocations must be met with strong, steady, and strategic action, not schoolyard rhetoric” said Panetta. “That is why we are calling upon the President to implement a strategy that uses economic pressure, firm diplomacy, and deterrence to address this paramount national security challenge. North Korea’s advancing nuclear and missile capabilities represent a growing threat that must be met with comprehensive action that uses all the tools in our toolkit to deescalate tensions, reassure our allies, and protect American citizens.” The full text of the letter is below and the signed letter can be found here. ______________________________________________________________________________ Dear Mr. President, We write to urge you to adopt a strong, strategic and steady policy toward North Korea, whose rapidly advancing nuclear and missile capabilities threaten the United States and our allies. We acknowledge two fundamental points. First, North Korea’s dangerous and destabilizing actions, in defiance of U.N. Security Council resolutions dating back to 2006, are the root cause of tensions between North Korea and the international community. Nevertheless, we believe your rhetoric in response has been counterproductive, escalating an already-dangerous situation. Second, while North Korea has been described as “the land of lousy options,” we believe the U.S. can maximize the chance of success by charting a careful course that avoids capitulation to, or catastrophic war with, North Korea. In our view, U.S. strategy toward North Korea should be guided by the following principles. · Increase Economic Pressure on North Korea Through the Imposition and Effective Enforcement of Sanctions U.S. and international economic sanctions on North Korea should be calibrated to make it harder for North Korea to import the technology and acquire the hard currency necessary to advance its nuclear and missile programs. They should also be tailored to produce sufficient economic hardship, particularly among the regime’s elites, to cause Kim Jong-un to conclude that the cost of these programs outweigh their benefit and—accordingly—to choose negotiation over aggression. While U.S. and U.N. sanctions were recently strengthened, we believe there is room for more serious and sustained economic pressure on North Korea in an effort to change its strategic calculus. While multilateral agreement to impose sanctions requires a significant diplomatic commitment, effective enforcement of sanctions involves even more time and resources. Far more should be done to ensure that other nations, including but not limited to China, are fulfilling their legal obligations. If a country has the will but not the ability to enforce sanctions against North Korea, the U.S. should offer technical or financial assistance. Conversely, if a country possesses the capacity but not the desire to implement sanctions, American officials should make clear to that country that it risks a fundamental breach in our bilateral relationship. The U.S. intelligence community, the Department of the Treasury, and the Department of State should monitor, address and—where appropriate—penalize non-compliance in accordance with U.S. sanctions law. · Enhance U.S. Diplomatic Efforts, Especially Crisis Management Channels Tough, principled diplomacy with North Korea is not a concession or sign of weakness. President Reagan negotiated with the Soviet Union at the height of the Cold War. Whether North Korea is prepared to negotiate an enduring and verifiable suspension of its nuclear and missile programs in exchange for sanctions relief is up to Pyongyang. But the United States should always be ready and willing to talk without preconditions. In the interim, the U.S. must establish effective crisis-management channels with North Korea to clarify intentions and minimize the risk of miscalculation. When the U.S. communicates clearly and consistently to an adversary, it makes it less likely that the adversary will intentionally or inadvertently begin a conflict. · Strengthen, Don’t Subvert, Alliances in East Asia At his confirmation hearing, Secretary of Defense James Mattis stated: “History is clear: nations with strong allies thrive and those without them wither.” We are concerned that U.S. alliances in East Asia, particularly our security and economic partnership with South Korea, are being mismanaged. After North Korea’s latest nuclear test, we were discouraged to see you accuse South Korean President Moon of “appeasement” toward North Korea, a claim as untrue as it is unhelpful. Furthermore, while we have a range of views on the 2012 U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement, we believe that now is the wrong time for the administration to engage in loose talk about unilateral withdrawal from the agreement. Kim Jong-un seeks to undermine the relationship between the U.S. and South Korea and to cause South Korea to question the credibility of our commitments. We should stand steadfast with our allies, not further Kim’s efforts to divide us. · Recognize that Personnel is Policy We are disappointed that, eight months into your tenure, key policymakers needed to craft and carry out U.S. strategy in East Asia are not in place. At the Department of State, you have yet to nominate an individual to serve as Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, U.S. Ambassador to South Korea, or Under Secretary for Arms Control and International Security. At the Department of Defense, you have not nominated an individual to serve as Assistant Secretary for Asian and Pacific Security Affairs or appointed an individual to serve as Deputy Assistant Secretary for East Asia. These are self-inflicted wounds. We urge you to swiftly nominate or name qualified individuals to these critical positions. · Maintain Deterrence and Defense For nearly 65 years, U.S. leadership, military presence, and engagement with allies has prevented another devastating conflict on the Korean peninsula. While Kim Il-Sung, Kim Jong-Il, and now Kim Jong-un have acted aggressively, each has concluded that a direct attack on the U.S. or our allies would produce unacceptable consequences for the regime. The U.S. must continue to impart this message to North Korea through a variety of means, including by enhancing defensive systems and bolstering defense cooperation and intelligence sharing with South Korea and Japan. Rather than using reckless rhetoric and sending muddled messages to our allies, the U.S. should pursue a comprehensive strategy toward North Korea that consists of economic pressure, strong and steady diplomacy, and credible deterrence and defense. Sincerely, ###
10.03.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) made the following statement after the House passed 20 week abortion ban legislation. "I am extremely disappointed that the House of Representatives passed this restrictive and repressive bill. Women across the country deserve better. This law is a continuation of the Republican Party’s assault on women’s reproductive health. There are too many scenarios, too many variables and too much complexity for pregnancy to be anything but a personal decision. With 3.4 million of our fellow Americans in need in Puerto Rico, families in pain following the horrific shooting in Las Vegas, and hardworking families all over the country looking for an economic boost, I cannot comprehend why Republicans at either end of Pennsylvania Avenue remain fixated on attacking women’s reproductive rights,” said Congressman Ryan.
10.02.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to the horrific mass shooting in Las Vegas, Nevada. "Once again, an all too familiar sense of dread and sadness set in when I saw the news this morning. I am shocked and dismayed by last night’s horrific massacre in Las Vegas. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims of this senseless violence and their families. My heart breaks for their suffering and loss. The truth is, however, I am tired of offering up the same condolences again and again while Congress continues to sit on the sidelines rather than debate common-sense gun safety measures that could mitigate these all-too-common horrors. As is so often the case, last night’s victims were innocent men and women, young people, and friends enjoying an evening of entertainment. For too long, weapons designed for battlefields have been allowed to tear apart lives and communities here at home. We owe it to those killed and wounded last night, as well as to the countless victims of past violence, to have a serious conversation about how to stop these tragedies that have become commonplace in our society. Continued inaction is a failure of our duty as Members of Congress and comes at too high a price,” said Congressman Ryan.
09.29.2017	Kent, OH – Congressman Ryan today announced a Federal Department of Education Grant to Kent State University. This grant will be in the amount of $71,379.00 for the first budget period (09/01/2017 through 08/31/2018). The $71,379.00 figure supports the first year of planning of this 5 year program. Each subsequent year (Fall 2018-Fall 22), after the planning year, will be funded for $250,000.00. This funding, which was awarded through the Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services in the Department of Education, will be used for the Personnel Preparation program, which assists States in meeting their responsibility for providing personnel to serve children with disabilities. “Demand for fully trained special education, early intervention, and related services personnel for serve infants, toddlers, children, and youth with disabilities exceeds the available supply. This shortage is especially pronounced in high-need schools. Being able to receive a quality education is a basic right in the United States, regardless of zip code or disability. These types of grants are imperative to the success of so many. This well-deserved grant only further highlights Kent State’s outstanding academic and research record and their commitment to bettering our community and our world,” said Congressman Ryan. "Kent State University’s Special Education program is excited to receive 1.1 million dollars of federal funding from the U.S Department of Education Office of Special Education Programs for personnel preparation specific to Early Intervention. This grant responds directly to state level shortages in highly qualified Early Intervention personnel. We will be training students in special education and speech pathology in an interdisciplinary graduate level program starting in August 2018. This grant will provide funding for students and expand the university’s interdisciplinary training and collaboration across the entire curriculum for professionals seeking expertise in Speech Pathology/Audiology and Early Intervention. KSU scholars who graduate from the program will qualify for the Ohio Department of Health issued Early Intervention Certification and will enter the field highly qualified to support families with infants and toddlers with disabilities in Part C systems," said Sanna Harjusola-Webb, Ph.D., Associate Professor.
09.29.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today announced a $22,910 Solid Waste Management Grant from the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) for Mahoning County. These funds will be used to help finance Mahoning County Solid Waste Management District’s Rural Recycling Education & Awareness Program (REAP), which promotes and assists the recycling efforts throughout the rural areas of Mahoning County. “I am pleased to announce this federal funding for Mahoning County. When it comes to preserving our environment for our kids, like many other issues, change starts at home. I am encouraged to see state and local governments like Mahoning County continuing to lead the charge on sustainability education. This funding will give rural Mahoning County an important boost, and represents a crucial federal investment. As long as I am in Congress, I will continue to fight to bring these important funds back to Northeast Ohio,” said Congressman Ryan. "I am very grateful for the support we receive from the USDA and sincerely appreciate the opportunity to serve the rural residents of Mahoning County," said Kim Lewis, Mahoning County Green Team.
09.27.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) made the following statement today after President Trump and Congressional Republicans announced their tax plan: “It should come as no surprise that President Trump and Republican leaders’ long-awaited tax plan falls far short of the meaningful reform hardworking Americans need and deserve. Instead of fixing our broken tax system, their idea of ‘reform’ relies on the same supply-side, trickle-down economics that has failed American families for decades. Despite years of lectures from Republicans about fiscal responsibility, the plan released today would cost the U.S. as much as $5 trillion over the next 10 years. Their plan is clear: slash rates for the wealthiest among us, who have already seen the vast majority of our economic recovery, and stick the middle class with the check. “In the past, I have said that Republicans and Democrats have an opportunity to work together on tax reform. I even extended an olive branch, stating for the record that I support reducing the corporate tax rate as long as it is coupled with closing the special interest loopholes that allow one out of five Fortune 500 companies to pay nothing in taxes and increasing the tax on capital gains and dividends so that the real ‘owners’ of the business are held accountable. But after today’s announcement, it is clear that President Trump and Congressional Republicans have no interest in real, bipartisan reform that will help everyday Americans. Instead their tax plan demonstrates that they are only interested in creating a tax structure that benefits themselves and their wealthy donors. We won’t stand for that. These tax breaks for the 1% would blow a massive hole in our deficit and would mean drastic cuts to important programs that give a much needed hand-up to hardworking families who need a fair shot at the American Dream. The American people deserve better. This is not a plan I will support.”
09.26.2017	Washington, DC – For every 1,000 live births in the United States, six infants will not live to see their first birthday. Today, Reps. Tim Ryan (D-OH), Evan Jenkins (R-WV), and John Yarmuth (D-KY) reintroduced the Healthy Start Reauthorization Act with the goal of ending these tragedies and the community health disparities that contribute to them. This bipartisan legislation reauthorizes the Healthy Start for Infants Program through 2023. Since 1991, Healthy Start has served communities with high rates of infant death, prematurity, and other complications by supporting the efforts of local community health partners to provide early delivery of services to mothers and families. The long-term medical and social services associated with premature and low-birthweight babies cost American taxpayers $26.2 billion per year, with first-year expenses for the smallest surviving infants averaging $273,900. These exorbitant health care costs are borne not only by families, but also by our nation’s businesses. Employers pay 12 times more, or $12 billion annually, in billed health insurance costs for babies born with complications than for those born without. “In the most advanced nation on earth, it should go without saying that every mother has a safe pregnancy and every baby is born healthy. Yet in my District, an African-American baby born in Youngstown is more likely to die before age one than an baby born in Iran. That is unacceptable,” said Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH). “Healthy Start has been on the frontline of the fight to save our youngest citizens for more than 25 years. As we mark the end of Infant Mortality Awareness Month, I am proud to once again introduce legislation that preserves and builds upon the success of this program at a time when the need in our communities is so great.” “The drug epidemic continues to ravage many of our communities, and we know that babies exposed to drugs, alcohol and tobacco during pregnancy have a greater risk of stillbirth. Nothing is more tragic than the death of an infant, and we must pass commonsense measures to help mothers and babies alike. The Healthy Start Reauthorization Act will do just that, providing the tools needed to help prevent stillbirths and protect the most innocent victims of the drug crisis. I applaud Rep. Tim Ryan for his leadership on this bipartisan bill – helping babies have a healthy start in life is a cause we can all support,” said Congressman Evan Jenkins (R-WV). “Healthy Start has been absolutely vital in our efforts to lower the infant mortality rate and give newborns and their parents access to pre- and postnatal care. I’ve fought to preserve and protect this funding each Congress and I’m proud to join my colleagues in continuing that critical effort today. This life-changing program deserves our full support and I’ll continue to work to see to it that this initiative is protected,” said Congressman John Yarmuth (D-KY). The Healthy Start Reauthorization Act of 2017 has been endorsed by the National Healthy Start Association, March of Dimes, the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), the Association of Maternal & Child Health Programs (AMCHP), and the First Focus Campaign for Children: “For 26 years, Healthy Start has worked with community residents, local partners, and local systems of care to deliver a culturally-responsive and inclusive range of services adapted to the distinct needs of each community. Using evidence-based approaches, Healthy Start has consistently succeeded in bringing infant mortality rates in vulnerable communities below national rates. The National Healthy Start Association appreciates and applauds Representatives Ryan, Jenkins, and Yarmuth for recognizing and advancing the work of Healthy Start and for supporting the funding reauthorization for this important community-based program. Saving the lives of our babies is the best investment we can make in our communities,” said Deborah L. Frazier, CEO of the National Healthy Start Association. “The Healthy Start program is leading the nation in developing effective strategies to reduce infant mortality in some of our most vulnerable communities,” stated March of Dimes President Stacey D. Stewart. “As one of the original champions for its creation, the March of Dimes is proud that Healthy Start is showing us the way to reduce health disparities and promote equity so that every baby has a fighting chance. The March of Dimes commends Representatives Ryan, Jenkins and Yarmuth for their dedication to guaranteeing a healthy beginning for all infants.” “Women and babies of color are disproportionately impacted by the high maternal and infant mortality rates in this country,” said Dr. Haywood Brown, President of the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG). “Every state and U.S. territory faces challenges regarding racial health disparities, particularly when it comes to maternal and infant mortality rates. That is why it is vital that Healthy Start is reauthorized so programs like the Alliance for Innovation on Maternal Health (AIM) can continue tackling these issues. ACOG thanks Representatives Ryan, Yarmuth, and Jenkins for taking the lead on this effort.” “Healthy Start programs live up to their name – they work to ensure children have a healthy start from the very beginning of life by providing women with access to the early prenatal and infant care they need. The Healthy Start Reauthorization Act of 2017 allows for continued, much-needed efforts to reduce the infant mortality rate in our country, particularly where disparities remain among minority and low-income populations. Healthy Start programs help to ensure a child’s ability to thrive is not determined by her ZIP code or family’s financial status. The American Academy of Pediatrics thanks Representative Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) for introducing this important legislation, and urges Congress to advance the bill without delay,” said AAP President Fernando Stein, MD, FAAP. “I applaud Representatives Ryan, Jenkins, and Yarmuth for introducing this important bill to continue building on Healthy Start’s record of success. State Title V maternal and child health programs are proud to contribute to that success, working in tandem with Healthy Start programs around the country toward our shared goal of reducing infant mortality and improving birth outcomes, with a special eye toward addressing health disparities,” said Lori Tremmel Freeman, CEO of the Association of Maternal & Child Health Programs (AMCHP). “The infant mortality rate in our nation remains unacceptably high, particularly for African-American women and families. In addition, far too many babies are born premature or with low birth weight and other conditions that negatively impact their health and future success. For over 25 years, Healthy Start has been an effective tool to help improve the health and well-being of pregnant women and children in high quality programs tailored to their unique needs. We support Healthy Start’s reauthorization and urge Congress to fully fund this important program so that it can continue to improve the early health and well-being of children and families,” said Bruce Lesley, President of the First Focus Campaign for Children. Read the full bill text here:
09.22.2017	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) is featured in the cover story in the new issue of TIME magazine, which is on newsstands today. The article—“The Democrats’ Dilemmas: A Divided Party Debates Its Future”—is written by Philip Elliott and datelined Youngstown, Ohio. The full story can be read here. “Like virtually all Democrats, Tim Ryan is no fan of Donald Trump. But as he speeds through his northeastern Ohio district in a silver Chevy Suburban, the eight-term Congressman sounds almost as frustrated with his own party. Popping fistfuls of almonds in the backseat, Ryan gripes about its fixation on divisive issues and its ‘demonization’ of business owners. Ryan, 44, was briefly considered for the role of Hillary Clinton's running mate last year. Now he sounds ready to brawl with his political kin. ‘We're going to have a fight,’ Ryan says. ‘There's no question about it.’” Ryan, with wife Andrea and son Brady, leaving the Basilica of Our Lady of Mount Carmel’s annual Italian festival in Youngstown, Ohio on July 21, 2017 – Mark Hartman for TIME “The momentum may be on the left, but picking up the 24 seats required to retake the House, and the three states needed for control of the Senate, will mean luring back blue collar workers in places like Ryan's Mahoning Valley district, where the steel plants are shells of their former selves, small businesses are boarded up and payday lenders seem to be on every corner. This used to be a Democratic stronghold, but Trump won three of the five counties in Ryan's district. If Democrats don't refine their pitch to alienated white voters, Trump could win re-election with ease. ‘The resistance can only be part of it,’ Ryan says. ‘We have to be on the offense too.’” TIME cover on October 2, 2017 “Part of Ryan's pitch has been to put away the pitchforks and modulate the tone. ‘We cannot be a party that is hostile to business. We need those businesspeople to hire our people, who just want a shot,’ Ryan fumes. ‘We can be business-friendly and still be progressive.’” “On a Friday in late July, Ryan was padding through the Basilica of Our Lady of Mount Carmel's annual Italian festival in Youngstown. Simmering red sauce was heaped on polenta, and elephant ears layered with powdered sugar were matched with mostaccioli showered with ground Parmesan from plastic tubes. It was a throwback to a time when church socials defined communities. ‘These are my peeps," Ryan says to no one in particular as voters swarm him. He doesn't forget where he came from,’ says Robert Rodkey, 71, after saying hello to Ryan. ‘Union isn't a word for him. It's a way of life. Now if only the Democrats would follow him.’” Ryan visits a neighborhood in Youngstown, Ohio on July 22, 2017 – Mark Hartman for TIME “Back in Youngstown, you can see the wheels spinning in Ryan's head. He sees a role for a Midwesterner who can connect with the working-class voters who took comfort in Trump's rage. Indeed, he thinks the Democrats' future depends on it. ‘We can get the party back on track,’ Ryan says as his SUV rolls away from a meeting with Ohio union chiefs. ‘Someone's going to figure this out. Someone needs to.’" NOTE: Please DO NOT respond to this email as this inbox is unattended. To contact my office please click here
09.20.2017	Youngstown, Ohio -- More than 90 Reserve Airmen, based at the Youngstown Air Reserve Station (YARS) with the Air Force Reserve’s 910th Airlift Wing are providing critical support to Hurricane Harvey recovery efforts in Texas. The Airmen arrived in San Antonio, Texas on Sept. 8, 2017, and have already treated over 1.1 million acres in Eastern Texas with EPA approved aerial spray specifically targeting mosquitos capable of transmitting diseases such as malaria, West Nile, Zika, and various types of encephalitis. This service was identified as a critical lesson learned from Hurricane Katrina where first responders and recovery workers were inflicted with nearly 100 mosquito bites per minute. The 910th Air Wing’s hard work reduced this number by over 95 percent. “I am incredibly proud of all the servicemembers who have stepped in to assist the greater Houston region recover from this historic storm. I am especially proud of the servicemembers from the Youngstown Air Reserve Station who are engaged in these efforts. Due to large amounts of standing, polluted water, the numbers of pests in the region have increased significantly. This has the potential to hamper first responders and recovery workers as recovery efforts continue. This highlights the importance of the service that YARS plays not only in our local community, but across the country,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. The deployed personnel included members of the 910th’s Aerial Spray Flight, Aerial Spray Maintenance Flight, Operations Support Squadron, Aircraft Maintenance Squadron, Maintenance Squadron, Force Support Squadron, Logistics Readiness Squadron, Communications Squadron and the Wing Public Affairs Office. The 910th operates the Department of Defense’s (DoD’s) only large area, fixed-wing aerial spray capability. This specialty mission provided exclusively Youngstown based Air Force Reserve provides critical and unique wartime support and has also been used to support humanitarian assistance and disaster relief after Hurricane Katrina, Rita and Gustav. This 910th also assisted in oil dispersant in the aftermath of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill. Authorities requested DoD support because the scope of the disaster is beyond the capacity of available civilian mosquito control resources.
09.19.2017	Youngstown, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan today announced $9,581,749 in federal grants to promote economic development in communities across the 13th Congressional District. This series of formula grants come through the US Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Office of Community Planning and Development (CPD). “As a member of Congress, I continue to look for ways to revitalize our cities, towns, and communities. Across the country, our towns are yearning for new development and new life. The vital influx of private investment that will be needed will only be possible with smart, necessary public investment to pave the way by upgrading and building modern infrastructure that can handle growth. Grants like these from the Department of Housing and Urban Development are necessary to provide Northeast Ohio the resources necessary to write our next chapter. As long as I am in Congress, I will continue to fight for and expand these vital programs. This spending is an investment, not a waste, that should be protected,” said Congressman Ryan. Grant types, recipients, and amounts listed below: Year State Grant Recipient Amount Congressional District 2017 OH CDBG AKRON $ 5,547,176 11, 13, 16 2017 OH ESG AKRON $ 608,720 11, 13, 16 2017 OH HOME AKRON $ 1,076,838 11, 13, 16 2017 OH CDBG ALLIANCE $ 547,611 06, 07, 13 2017 OH CDBG STARK COUNTY $ 1,209,286 06, 07, 13, 16 2017 OH HOME STARK COUNTY $ 592,118 06, 07, 13, 16 Grant Descriptions: The Community Development Block (CDBG) Grants program provides annual grants to States and local units of government to develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and a suitable living environment, and by expanding economic opportunities, principally for low- and moderate-income persons. The Emergency Solutions Grants (ESG) program provides funding to engage homeless individuals and families living on the street; improve the number, quality and operations of emergency shelters for homeless individuals and families; provide essential services to shelter residents, rapidly re-house homeless individuals and families, and prevent families/individuals from becoming homeless. The HOME program helps to expand the supply of decent, affordable housing to low- and very low-income families by providing grants to States and local governments to fund housing programs that meet local needs and priorities. The HOPWA program provides housing assistance and related supportive services to local units of government, States and non-profit organizations for projects that benefit low-income persons medically diagnosed with HIV/AIDS and their families. The Housing Trust Fund (HTF) provides funding to developers to preserve, rehabilitate and construct housing, primarily for extremely low-income families. At least 80 percent of the funds must be used for the production, preservation, rehabilitation, or operation of rental housing. Up to 10 percent can be used for the following homeownership activities for first-time homebuyers: production, preservation, and rehabilitation; down payment assistance, closing cost assistance, and assistance for interest rate buy-downs. This funding is in addition to $7.5 million in grants of the same kind, which were announced last week.
09.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Representative Tim Ryan (OH-13) joined Reps. John Larson (CT-01), Joe Courtney (CT-02), and Brian Higgins (NY-26) this week to announce the introduction of the Medicare Buy-In and Health Care Stabilization Act. A commonsense effort to create a Medicare Buy-In option for Americans ages 50-64 and to stabilize the health care marketplaces. The Act will provide a new option for Americans ages 50-64 to buy-in to Medicare thus avoiding the increase in premiums that Americans in this age group often face. Additionally, working Americans who receive employer sponsored coverage (ages 50-64) who wish to buy into the program would have the option to do so, and their employers could continue to contribute to their premiums pre-tax, a win-win for those employers and employees. The bill, which was introduced this week, also proposes important common sense solutions to bolster stability in the health care marketplaces and bring down health care costs by finding innovative ways to reduce billions in waste, fraud, and abuse in the health care system. “Medicare is a program that works. As we continue to debate the future of healthcare in our country, Americans are seeking real solutions that address their long-term needs. Medicare is a program that has been meeting those needs efficiently, providing quality healthcare to our seniors since it was enacted in 1966. The creation of Medicare is one of our greatest achievements and it has helped lift millions of seniors out of poverty. Today Congress has the ability to allow Americans aged 50 gain access to Medicare by buying into the program, and giving even more men and women the opportunity to receive quality, affordable health insurance. This is a common sense proposal that would improve the lives of millions of Americans," said Rep. Ryan. “Throughout the entire health care debate in Congress, all the American people have wanted are common sense solutions. They are sick of partisan politics, and they don’t want to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA). I am proud to join with Reps. Courtney and Higgins to develop the Medicare Buy-In and Health Care Stabilization Act, that builds on the successes of the ACA and Medicare to strengthen our health care system,” said Rep. Larson. “This proposal will give Americans (ages 50-64) the ability to buy-into Medicare as a quality, affordable, and much-needed coverage option. The Act also aims to cut down on extraneous costs in our current health care system through targeted reforms, and provide a better delivery and quality of care to all Americans.” “When it comes to the current healthcare debate, Americans have been telling congress loud and clear what they want: constructive solutions that can get bipartisan support,” said Rep. Courtney. “The ACA was never intended to be the final word on healthcare and Republicans are right that some parts of that bill are now broken, or at least not working as intended. We can agree that ACA needed to be fixed and we should be working together rather than attempting to butcher the bill without putting a new plan in place. The Medicare Buy In and Health Care Stabilization Act provides relief for the higher cost, older population in the individual and small business market, and restores the market stabilizers that Republicans have undermined and caused insurance premiums to spike in 2017 and 2018. Lastly, the bill provides exciting new ways to reduce health care spending by cracking down on fraud and instructs the Department of Health and Human Services to employ tried and true tools to cut costs in the area of prescription drugs. This bill is an important step forward towards a system that provides affordable, high-quality options to all Americans. Rep. Higgins said, “Medicare is an American success story. Prior to the enactment of Medicare almost half of Americans over 65 didn’t have insurance, today nearly all do. For more than 50 years Medicare has proven to provide quality, affordable coverage that Americans like. Expanding the Medicare model to a larger population simply makes sense.” Additional cosponsors of the “Medicare Buy-In and Health Care Stabilization Act” include: Andre Carson (IN-07), David Cicilline (RI-01), Steve Cohen (TN-09), John Delaney (MD-06), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Ted Deutch (FL-22), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Bill Keating (MA-09), Ro Khanna (CA-17), Raja Krishnamoorthi (IL-08), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Betty McCollum (MN-04), Don McEachin (VA-04), Jim McGovern (MA-02), Ed Perlmutter (CO-07), David Price (NC-04), Mike Quigley (IL-05), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Dina Titus (NV-01), Paul Tonko (NY-20), Peter Welch (VT), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Elizabeth Esty (CT-05), Ruben Kihuen (NV-04), Grace Napolitano (CA-32), Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), John Garamendi (CA-03), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), Collin Peterson (MN-07), Jared Polis (CO-02), and Denny Heck (WA-10).
09.13.2017	Washington, DC — Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) joined Rep. Ro Khanna (D-CA) to introduce legislation in the House that would give working families a much-deserved wage boost to compensate for 40 years of wage stagnation. Companion legislation has been introduced in the Senate by Sen. Sherrod Brown. The Grow American Incomes Now (GAIN) Act would greatly expand the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) so that more working families and childless workers are eligible to receive it. The bill comes at a time when the Trump Administration and Republicans are supporting devastating budget cuts to programs that help working families in exchange for tax breaks for the very wealthy and big corporations. The GAIN Act roughly doubles the EITC for working families and increases the credit for childless workers almost six-fold. Under the proposal, the maximum tax credit available increases to $12,131 for families with three or more qualifying children; $10,783 with two qualifying children; $6,528 with one qualifying child; and $3,000 with no qualifying children. Currently, a family of three can receive a maximum credit of $6,318 and someone with no children can receive at most a $510 tax credit. The proposed EITC expansion would also be phased out at higher income levels and remain fully refundable. It would allow for a worker with no children who makes up to $37,113 annually to still be eligible to receive the tax credit and covers a family with three or more children making up to $75,940 a year to receive the EITC. The current maximum qualifying income to receive the EITC is $15,010 for childless workers and $48,340 for families with three or more children. “America is the richest nation in the history of the world, and yet still too many hardworking families are living paycheck to paycheck. Wages for low-income and middle-class families haven’t gone up in over 30 years, while massive amounts of wealth have gone to the top one percent. This trend is not sustainable, and will not allow long-term economic success for the United States. It is about time we make sure American workers are given a fair wage for a fair days work. That is why I am proud to be an original cosponsor of the GAIN Act, which would provide for a $1 trillion expansion of the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC). This would put an extra $12 thousand dollars in the pockets of hardworking families making $75 thousand a year. This bill will give Americans the raise they deserve,” said Rep.Tim Ryan “The EITC is already proven at lifting people out of poverty. By strengthening it to reach more families and individuals, it can have a lasting impact on our economy,” said Rep. Ro Khanna. “In today's age of automation and globalization, where work is sometimes seasonal and hours are often curtailed, this bill provides every hard-working American with a fair income for their labor.” The bill also recognizes many Americans live paycheck to paycheck and includes a provision that would provide an Early Refund EITC as an alternative to payday loans and other predatory lending products. EITC advances would be capped at $500 each taxable year and would be subtracted from the recipient’s total credit when they file their annual tax return. Instead of receiving the lump sum once a year, this early refund makes it easier for working families and individuals to pay their monthly bills and provide financial security. The bill also lowers the qualifying age for the EITC from 25 years old to 21 years old. Who Benefits from the EITC More than 26 million working families and individuals in every state received the EITC in 2015 according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. Under the bill, it is estimated that nearly half of American households will pay no federal individual income tax in 2017, up from the 44 percent under current law. Current Maximum Credits vs. the Brown-Khanna GAIN Act Type of household Current maximum amount of credit (2017 Tax Year) Maximum amount of credit under Brown-Khanna Three or more qualifying children $6,318 / $12,131 Two qualifying children $5,616 / $10,783 One qualifying child $3,400 / $6,528 No qualifying children $510 / $3,000 Legislation and cosponsors House cosponsors (as of 9/11/17): Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Don Beyer (D-VA), Robert Brady (D-PA), Julia Brownley (D-CA), George Kenneth Butterfield (D-NC), Matt Cartwright (D-PA), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), John Conyers (D-MI), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), John K. Delaney (D-MD), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Dwight Evans (D-PA), Marcia L. Fudge (D-OH), John Garamendi (D-CA), Vicente Gonzalez (D-TX), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL), Colleen Hanabusa (DHI), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Robin Kelly (D-IL), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Gwen Moore (DWI), Jerrold Nadler (D-NJ), Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA), Donald Norcross (D-NJ), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DWA), Frank Pallone Jr. (D-NJ), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Bobby Rush (D-IL), Tim Ryan (D-OH), Jan Schakowsky (DIL), Bobby Scott (D-VA), Jose E. Serrano (D-NY), Darren Soto (D-FL), Nydia Velazquez (D-NY), Maxine Waters (DCA), Peter Welch (D-VT), Frederica Wilson (D-FL)
09.12.2017	Rep. Tim Ryan and Rep. Ro Khanna Press Conference on New Bill to Raise Wages of Working Families Massive Expansion the Earned Income Tax Credit Corrects 40 Years of Wage Stagnation WASHINGTON, DC – On Wednesday, September 13 at 12:30 pm, Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13) will join a press conference to announce new legislation that will offer a massive wage increase for working families. Through a major expansion of the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) for families and childless workers, the bill aims to compensate for 40 years of wage stagnation for the bottom 20 percent of wage earners. When coupled with raising the minimum wage and providing worker protections, the legislation is designed to put more money back into the pockets of hard working Americans who are trying to get by pay check to pay check. Rep. Ryan, Rep. Ro Khanna, and other cosponsors will detail how the bill offers lower- and middle-income workers a more than double, fully refundable tax credit. They will also discuss how the legislation is an actionable idea to help working families, who have been ignored by President Trump and Republicans in Congress. Speakers: Rep. Ro Khanna (CA-17) Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13) Rep. John Delaney (MD-6) Rep. Donald Norcoss (NJ-1) Democratic Members of Congress Progressive partners When: Wednesday, September 13 12:30 to 1:00 pm Cameras can preset beginning at 12:15 pm, a multbox is available. Where: House Triangle, U.S. Capitol https://goo.gl/maps/adVGbaEfyGq RSVP: Members of the media wishing to attend please RSVP to Michael Zetts at Michael.Zetts@mail.house.gov. ### A Press Call will be hosted after the formal conference from 3:00-3:30. Speakers: Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13) When: Wednesday, September 13 3:00-3:30 pm Call In: Dial-in number: 202-593-3000 Conference/Participant code: 606705 RSVP: Members of the media wishing to attend please RSVP to Michael Zetts at Michael.Zetts@mail.house.gov. ***video from the call will be available upon request from Michael Zetts***
09.12.2017	Warren, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan announced $1.5 million in federal grant money for Kent State University. $1,150,000 of this funding comes directly from the National Science Foundation, and will go towards three projects: Matrix Functions and Network Analysis under the direction of Lothar Reichel ($150,000), SI2-SSE: GeoVisuals Software: Capturing, Managing, and Utilizing GeoSpatial Multimedia Data for Collaborative Field Research under the direction of Ye Zhao ($500,000), and DMREF: Collaborative Research: Materials Engineering of Columnar and Living Liquid Crystals via Experimental Characterization, Mathematical Modeling, and Simulation under the direction of Oleg Lavrentovich ($500,000). “I applaud Kent State University for securing these federal grants. Advancements in education and scientific research are crucial for us to grow as a nation – and I am proud these investments are being made right here in our backyard,” said Congressman Ryan. “This well-deserved funding only further highlight Kent State’s outstanding academic and research record.” Kent State also received: $161,115 from the Department of Health and Human Services for their Behavioral Health Workforce Education and Training (BHWET) Program $241,556 from the Department of Education’s FY17 McNair Postbaccalaureate Achievement Program awards. The McNair Program awards grants to institutions of higher learning for projects designed to provide disadvantaged college students with effective preparation for doctoral study. ###
09.12.2017	Youngstown, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan today announced $7,598,549 in federal grants to promote economic development in communities across the 13th Congressional District. This series of formula grants come through the US Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Office of Community Planning and Development (CPD). “As a member of Congress, I am constantly looking for ways to revitalize our cities, towns, and communities that have yet to see much of the economic recovery that has happened for the wealthiest among us. Across the country, our towns are yearning for new development and new life. The vital influx of private investment that will be needed will only be possible with smart, necessary public investment to pave the way by upgrading and building modern infrastructure that can handle growth. Grants like these from the Department of Housing and Urban Development are necessary to provide Northeast Ohio the resources necessary to write our next chapter. As long as I am in Congress, I will continue to fight for and expand these vital programs. This spending is an investment, not a waste, that should be protected,” said Congressman Ryan. Grant types, recipients, and amounts listed below: Year State Grant Recipient Amount District 2017 OH CDBG BARBERTON $ 562,812 13, 16 2017 OH CDBG KENT $ 248,453 13, 16 2017 OH CDBG SUMMIT COUNTY $ 872,757 11, 13, 14, 16 2017 OH HOME SUMMIT COUNTY $ 308,361 11, 13, 14, 16 2017 OH CDBG WARREN $ 1,054,389 13 2017 OH HOME WARREN $ 490,018 13 2017 OH CDBG YOUNGSTOWN $ 3,210,146 13 2017 OH ESG YOUNGSTOWN $ 425,468 13 2017 OH HOME YOUNGSTOWN $ 426,145 13 Grant Descriptions: The Community Development Block (CDBG) Grants program provides annual grants to States and local units of government to develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and a suitable living environment, and by expanding economic opportunities, principally for low- and moderate-income persons. The Emergency Solutions Grants (ESG) program provides funding to engage homeless individuals and families living on the street; improve the number, quality and operations of emergency shelters for homeless individuals and families; provide essential services to shelter residents, rapidly re-house homeless individuals and families, and prevent families/individuals from becoming homeless. The HOME program helps to expand the supply of decent, affordable housing to low- and very low-income families by providing grants to States and local governments to fund housing programs that meet local needs and priorities. The HOPWA program provides housing assistance and related supportive services to local units of government, States and non-profit organizations for projects that benefit low-income persons medically diagnosed with HIV/AIDS and their families. The Housing Trust Fund (HTF) provides funding to developers to preserve, rehabilitate and construct housing, primarily for extremely low-income families. At least 80 percent of the funds must be used for the production, preservation, rehabilitation, or operation of rental housing. Up to 10 percent can be used for the following homeownership activities for first-time homebuyers: production, preservation, and rehabilitation; down payment assistance, closing cost assistance, and assistance for interest rate buy-downs. Congressman Ryan was also pleased to announce $34,744 in grant funding for the Eastgate Regional Council of Governments provided though the Economic Development Administration. This EDA planning investment supports the development and implementation of a comprehensive economic development strategy (CEDS) for the region served by the Eastgate Regional Council of Governments, which comprises the counties of Ashtabula, Mahoning, and Trumbull. The CEDS process is designed to bring together the public and private sectors in the creation of an economic development roadmap to diversify and strengthen the regional economy. "Eastgate is the designated Economic Development District for Mahoning, Trumbull and Ashtabula counties. The EDA Partnership Planning Funds will be utilized to further strategic planning for our member communities and promote the usage of state and federal programs that advance economic development in those communities. Additional funding also allows Eastgate the opportunity to develop measures and best practices for facilitating growth," said Jim Kinnick, Executive Director
09.11.2017	Warren, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan today announced $26,653 in federal funding for the Ravenna Township Fire Department. This grant funding comes from the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG) to support operations and safety. “This is great news for the firefighters working to protect our local community,” said Congressman Ryan. “It is important that we make safety our number one priority when it comes to the firefighters who put their life on the line every day. These types of federal grants ensure that local fire departments have adequate funding for the resources they need to keep our community safe. I will continue to advocate to bring these funds to Northeast Ohio.” “We are very grateful to receive this Grant from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The funds will be used to purchase a power load system for one of our ambulances. This load system will automatically load the cot into the ambulance so our firefighters and paramedics don't have to manually lift the cot. This will reduce work place injuries and create a safer environment for our employees and our patients. Thank you AFG for funding this grant!” said Fire Chief Mark Kozak, Ravenna Township The goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and emergency medical service organizations. Operations and Safety grants can be used for hiring, professional training, wellness and fitness programs equipment, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critical equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards.
09.08.2017	Hurricanes Irma and Jose The Department of State warns U.S. citizens to avoid travel to The Bahamas, Turks and Caicos, Dominican Republic, Haiti, Cuba, and parts of the Eastern Caribbean due to Hurricane Irma. Hurricane Jose is expected to affect the same areas. The safety and security of U.S. citizens overseas is a top priority of the Department of State. These storms are expected to bring significant rainfall and wind that may result in life-threatening flooding, mudslides, and storm surges. Disruptions to travel and services are likely throughout the projected path of the hurricanes. U.S. citizens should follow the emergency instructions provided by local authorities. We urge U.S. citizens in the impacted area who are safe to contact their loved ones directly and/or update their social media status. If you are in the affected area and need immediate emergency services, please contact local authorities. Local numbers for police and emergency services: The Bahamas: 919 or 911 St. Maarten (Dutch side): 911 St. Martin and St. Barthélemy: The French Ministry of Interior has set up a public line emergency line: Tel: 01 82 71 03 37. St. Eustatius: 911 (police) and 910 or 912 (medical) Saba: 911 (police) and 912 (medical) Cuba: 106 Haiti: +509-3838-11 or +509-3733-3640 The Dominican Republic: 911 For U.S. Citizens in Dutch St. Maarten: The Department of State is exploring every possible option to assist U.S. citizens in Dutch St. Maarten. At this time, the airport and seaports are closed. Communication infrastructure has been heavily damaged. There is no U.S. consular presence on the island. U.S. citizens should follow the instructions provided by local authorities and call 911 locally if they require immediate assistance. Shelters are available at the following locations: New Testament Baptist Church in Philipsburg; Sister Marie-Laurence Primary School in Middle Region; Belvedere Community Center in Belvedere; Dutch Quarter Community Center in Dutch Quarter; Rupert I Maynard Youth Community Center St. Peters; NIPA National Institute for Professional Advancement Cay Hill; Christian Fellowship Church Across from Pineapple Pete’s Cole Bay. For U.S. Citizens in French St. Martin: There is no U.S. consular presence on the island. U.S. citizens should follow the instructions provided by local authorities. The French Ministry of Interior has set up a public line emergency line (Tel: 01 82 71 03 37) and provided a list of shelters in St. Martin and in St. Barthelemy. You can inform the Department of State about U.S. citizens affected by the hurricane who require emergency assistance through the following ways: Visit Task Force Alert and select “2017 Hurricane Irma” If you are entering information about a U.S. citizen in Dutch St. Maarten, Anguilla, Aruba, Bonaire, Curacao, Saba, or St. Eustatius use “Netherlands” as the Last Known Country If you are entering information about a U.S. citizen in French St. Martin, Montserrat, St. Barthélemy, or St. Kitts and Nevis, use “Barbados” as the Last Known Country. If you are entering information about a U.S. citizen in Turks and Caicos, use “The Bahamas” as the Last Known Country. If you have difficulty using Task Force Alert, please email IrmaEmergencyUSC@state.gov and provide as much information as possible about your loved one Email IrmaEmergencyUSC@state.gov and provide as much information as possible (at a minimum, please provide their full name, gender, and last known location within country, if known) Call us at 1-888-407-4747 (from the U.S. & Canada), +1-202-501-4444 (from Overseas) If you are concerned about non-U.S. citizens in Saba, St Eustatius, and St Maarten, please see the Netherlands Red Cross Safe and Well website. ### Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan is providing the following resources to constituents impacted by Hurricane Irma in Florida and the Caribbean. All resources have been made available on Ryan’s official website: (https://timryan.house.gov/hurricane-irma-resources). Constituents in need of further assistance are invited to call on of Ryan’s District Offices: 1-800-856-4152, 330-373-0074 (Warren), 330-630-7311 (Akron), 330-740-0193 (Youngstown). * Florida is within the expected path of Hurricane Irma. Contact 1-800-342-3557 for the State of Florida's 24-hour hurricane hotline.* www.floridadisaster.org A comprehensive guide to hurricane preparedness, including how to strengthen your home, create a family plan, and even protect your important financial records. www.ready.gov A federal website with useful check-lists that will help you create a communications plan and assemble an emergency kit in advance of a hurricane. Emergency Numbers You Should Know State of Florida Emergency Information 24-hour hotline (FEIL): 1-800-342-3557 State Volunteer and Donations Hotline: 1-800-FL-HELP1 (1-800-354-3571) American Red Cross: 1-800-HELP-NOW (1-800-435-7669) Florida Power and Light: 1-800-4-OUTAGE (1-800-468-8243) Florida Department of Elder Affairs: 1-800-96-ELDER (1-800-963-5337) Hurricane Preparedness Information FEMA Hurricane Preparedness Website National Hurricane Center Glossary of National Hurricane Center Terms Federal and State Resources Florida Division of Emergency Management Small Business Administration Disaster Preparedness Guide Federal Disaster Unemployment Assistance Shelters Collier County shelters can be found here. Hillsborough County shelters can be found here. Pinellas County shelters can be found here. Pasco County shelters can be found here. Hernando County shelters can be found here. Citrus County shelters can be found here. Manatee County shelters can be found here. Sarasota County shelters can be found here. Hardee County shelters can be found here. Polk County shelters can be found here. Charlotte County shelters can be found here. Desoto County shelters can be found here. Glades County shelters can be found here. Hendry County shelters can be found here. Lee County shelters can be found here. Seminole County shelters can be found here. Volusia County shelters can be found here. Sumter County shelters can be found here. Palm Beach County shelters can be found here. Martin County shelters can be found here. St. Lucie County shelters can be found here. Indian River County shelters can be found here. Okeechobee County shelters can be found here. Duval County shelters can be found here. St. Johns County shelters can be found here. Alachua County shelters can be found here. Nassau County shelters can be found here. Bradford County shelters can be found here. Flagler County shelters can be found here. US Military Support: US Northern Command is coordinating support efforts for Hurricane Irma. The National Guard has activated more than 8,000 troops to support US Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, Florida and South Carolina. Ohio National Guard deployed to the US Virgin Islands in support of Hurricane Irma response efforts. The US Navy deployed three ships with nearly 700 Marines embarked to support humanitarian relief efforts for Irma by providing disaster relief supplies, medical, logistics, and security support. The US Coast Guard is deployed off Puerto Rico and Florida in support of Irma recovery efforts. US military allies including Netherlands and Britain are deploying assets to support the other Caribbean Islands. A list of recommended actions before, during and after a hurricane are provided by the US Navy. For Constituents Abroad in the Caribbean To contact the State Department, family should use this link: https://tfa.state.gov/ (This link will take you to a DoS 2017 Hurricane Irma form which will record citizen status and create lines of communication.) https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/news/HurricaneIrma.html https://travel.state.gov/content/passports/en/emergencies/natural-disasters.html The American Red Cross has activated its Safe and Well program to allow survivors to let family members know they are safe, and for family members to search for loved ones. For now, while communications capabilities on the Islands are down, it is recommended that you take advantage of this program. Avoid Scams after the Storm: Hurricane Preparedness GuideA guide prepared by the Florida Attorney General's office for avoiding scams and price gouging. Florida Attorney General's Price Gouging Hotline: (866) 9-NO-SCAMUnder FL law, during a state of emergency it is illegal to sell essential commodities for a an amount that grossly exceeds the average price for that commodity. Call the hotline if you suspect price gouging. Florida Department of Business & Professional Regulation, Unlicensed Activity Program: (866) 532-1440Avoid becoming the victim of an unlicensed activity scam after a natural disaster. Follow the suggested steps to ensure the contractors you use are legitimate and licensed.
09.06.2017	Washington, DC -- Today, legislative language from the HOT CARS Act was passed in the full House of Representatives as a part of the SELF-DRIVE Act of 2017. After its passage, Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH), Peter King (R-NY), and Subcommittee Ranking Member Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) released the following statements: “No child should endure the tragedy of dying while trapped in a hot vehicle. The unfortunate reality is that even good, loving and attentive parents can get distracted. Studies have shown that this can happen to anyone, anywhere. I am proud that we were able to get this important language through the Energy and Commerce Committee and pass the full House. There isn’t a Congressional district in the country that is immune from these tragedies. This legislation will help mobilize inexpensive, readily available rear seat technology to save children’s lives. Representatives Schakowsky, King and myself will continue to press this issue. Our kids are worth it,” said Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH). “I am proud that we were able to include language from our HOT CARS bill in the legislation that was passed by the House of Representatives today,” said Ranking Member Schakowsky (D-IL). “Already, 37 children have died from heatstroke in vehicles this year – more than one per week. You get a warning when you leave the keys in the car. You should get a warning if you leave a child in the car. It’s time for action, and the language in this bill would be a great step forward. Children are dying preventable deaths – we cannot afford to wait.” “I am proud to work with Reps Ryan and Schakowsky on this important legislation. The belief is that it can’t happen to you, always someone else. Unfortunately it happens over and over again, even to the most conscientious parents. Technology is available and it can be placed in new vehicles to protect innocent children. It’s really that simple,” said Congressman Peter King (R-NY). “The auto industry knows we are human and can unfortunately forget one step in this busy and fast paced society. They have kindly added reminders so we put on our seatbelts, to fill our low gas tank, so we don’t leave our keys in the ignition and don’t forget to turn off our headlights. This alert will let us know ‘just in case’ our quiet little rear-facing passenger in the back seat isn’t where they need to be” said Janette Fennell, president of KidsAndCars.org. HOT Cars legislation will help prevent children from being needlessly killed and injured when unknowingly left alone in vehicles. The bi-partisan effort has received widespread support from more than twenty of the nation’s leading public health, consumer and safety organizations, as well as experts in neuroscience and the brain memory system and families who have lost their child or were seriously injured due to child vehicular heatstroke. This language specifically would require the U.S. Department of Transportation to issue a final rule requiring vehicles to be equipped with an alarm system that alerts the driver to check the rear seat after a car is turned off.
09.05.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan condemned President Trump for terminating the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, which provides deportation relief to undocumented young men and women who were brought to the United States as children. “We are a compassionate nation. A country that has empathy for a struggling family in a new country. A country that lifts up our younger generation so they can have a better future. The DREAMers that DACA protects were brought here as children through no fault of their own. President Trump’s heartless decision go after 800,000 young people is a complete betrayal of his promise to respond ‘with great heart’ to this issue. His choice to pursue this action instead of using our finite resources to go after criminals who have broken our country’s most serious laws shows that his priorities are not in order. He wants Americans to believe that closing the door to immigrants and closing off our nation from the rest of the world will fix our immigration system. In reality, this reversal will force young people back into the shadows after they voluntarily registered with the government to serve in our military, attend college, and pay taxes. It is unconscionable and un-American that President Trump would move to devastate the futures of individuals who want nothing more than to contribute to the only country they have ever known and loved. Terminating this program goes against the vast majority of Americans who, regardless of their political affiliation, overwhelmingly support allowing these young people to continue their pursuit of the American Dream. “We should be focusing on comprehensive immigration reform: a long-term solution for fixing our broken immigration system. We can secure our border through smart investments in advanced border technologies while providing a pathway to citizenship for the 11 million undocumented immigrants who are here and abiding by our laws. While it is clear we cannot count on the White House to act with compassion towards DREAMers, Congress has the power to find a legislative solution to resolve the fate of these nearly one million individuals. We have six months to act, the House and Senate leadership must move swiftly and bring up legislation to ensure that these 800,000 young people do not have their futures ripped away, ” said Congressman Ryan
08.31.2017	Youngstown, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan today announced almost $400,000 in federal funds for the Youngstown Fire Department. This funding comes in the form of a Fire Prevention and Safety grant through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). “There are few things more important than supporting services that help protect the lives of our families and friends, and the first responders who make that possible. As a result I always offer my support to grants of this nature," said Congressman Ryan. “This money will enhance fire prevention and over all safety to the Youngstown Fire Department. This crucial funding will prevent the Department from having to decommission a fire truck. That would have been detrimental to the force, given that Youngstown firefighters encounter 8 times the amount of structure fires than those of any other major city in Ohio. I congratulate Fire Chief John O’Neill’s hard work in obtaining these grants." “Myself, along with Mayor John McNally and all of the members of firefighters Local 312 could not be more pleased and grateful to Congressman Ryan for his persistence in lobbying on our behalf for this grant award. With the Fire Department funding at a point that would require the closure of one of our front line trucks as early as next week, this funding will now ensure that fire department staffing will be brought up to proper levels to protect the Citizens of Youngstown,” said Youngstown Fire Department Chief John O'Neill The goal of the AFG program is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and emergency medical service organizations. Operations and Safety grants can be used for professional training, wellness and fitness programs equipment, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critical equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards.
08.23.2017	Youngstown, OH -- Congressman Tim Ryan released this statement following President Trump's campaign rally in Phoenix, Arizona where he continued to attack the free press. "As an elected official in Ohio for over 17 years, I certainly have not appreciated every news article or story that has been published in the media. But after hearing President Trump's tirade last night, I believe it is necessary for public officials to state clearly and unequivocally that a free press is essential to the functioning of our democracy. It isn't always fun to have the scrutiny of the press analyzing and critiquing our policies, our initiatives, and even our personalities. But it is exactly that friction that forces elected officials to answer publicly those who question certain ideas and policies. "A free press gives voice to a free people. If we can't fiercely and articulately defend our positions and policies publicly then those ideas won't, and shouldn't, become the law of the land. That is why President Trump feels the need to lash out at the press every chance he gets. They are constantly shedding light on his hyperbole, his hypocrisies, his misrepresentations and his ever more increasing falsehoods. "Our system isn't perfect, social media has gotten a bit out of control, making political discourse a lot noisier. But the alternative is the secretive, government controlled media system that we see in Russia, China, and developing countries around the world where power brokers are able to operate in the shadows and against the interests of their own people. If President Trump does not like the free press, what would he have in its place?"
08.22.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement regarding President Trump’s announcement of key changes in the United States’ ongoing military operations in Afghanistan. “The choice to commit our brave servicemembers to combat is the most important decision a Commander-in-Chief can make. Similarly, supporting our troops both at home and abroad is the most solemn responsibility a Member of Congress has and as a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, one that I take very seriously. As the war in Afghanistan continues, it is clear that a change is needed to advance the progress that has been made and stem any losses. The President’s decision to increase the number of American troops in Afghanistan in accordance with formal recommendations from the Pentagon is a move that I am hopeful will bolster our national security by stabilizing regions where the Taliban has made significant gains. But President Trump's lack of detail and refusal to articulate a strategy for ultimately ending the war in Afghanistan is concerning. The American people deserve to know how President Trump and his Administration are going to ensure that open ended war does not become the norm," said Congressman Ryan. “The sacrifices that have already been made by U.S. servicemembers, our allies, and their families must be honored by doing everything in our power to provide the resources necessary to effectively prepare local Afghan forces to take full control of their own defense. We as a nation are forever grateful and indebted to those who have already sacrificed so much in this ongoing effort.”
08.17.2017	Washington, DC -- Congressman Tim Ryan today called for the removal of Confederate statues from the Unites States Capitol. "Statues of Confederates or Confederate sympathizers have no place in the Halls of Congress and should be removed immediately. The cause that these Confederate leaders supported would have seen the Capitol building burned to the ground, the Republic which it represents torn apart, and the countless African American Representatives, Senators, staffers, and visitors who work and visit there every day viewed as property simply because of the color of their skin. Those are not values worthy of display in this Capitol or any corner of our nation. Taking down monuments of confederate leaders and sympathizers is not erasing history; it is taking a stand against the glorification of those who fought to end our nation as we know it for the purpose of subjugating an entire race of people. Our children should learn about this era so that they may grow up to help build a more perfect union, one in which the bigoted ideology that led to the Civil War and continued through Jim Crow never rears its ugly head again. But what we should not do is display statues which seek to hold the Confederacy in high esteem, or the system of oppression and dehumanization it's leaders fought to uphold,” said Congressman Ryan
08.15.2017	Youngstown, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement condemning the President Trumps latest comments on Charlottesville “I watched with disgust, though sadly, hardly surprise, as the President of the United States doubled down on his earlier failure to fully condemn the forces of racism and hate that instigated the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia this past weekend. We lost two brave State Troopers in an accident while in the line of duty. During an act of terror, an innocent woman, Heather Heyer, was murdered and dozens of others were injured for speaking out against racism and bigotry by groups that the President only reluctantly has named. In the face of such evil, we cannot be reluctant in the defense of our fellow citizens who, as a result of this weekend’s events could be left feeling less safe, less welcome, in their own country. That makes me sick. Neo-Nazis, racists, anti-Semites, the KKK, and other white supremacist groups have no place in American society. Each of us has a duty to speak out against this hateful ideology. President Trump has failed in this regard in a spectacular manner over the last couple days leading up to today’s horrendous press conference in Trump Tower. America deserves better,” said Congressman Ryan.
08.15.2017	Warren, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan announced $1,609,045.00 to be awarded to the Portage Private Industry Council, Inc. for their Head Start programs. “This grant from the Department of Health and Human Services is welcomed news for Portage County. This critical investment will bring real and lasting good to our community,” said Congressman Ryan. “Head Start has always provided necessary social services – including nutrition and wellness programs for low-income children. These funds will continue vital services that enhance their cognitive, social, and emotional development. Head Start programs are crucial to our nation and community’s most vulnerable children and I am happy that this grant is going to such a good cause.” This grant is part of the Department of Health and Human Services Head Start Projects, with the grant period ending on June 30, 2020. This is continued funding.
08.10.2017	Youngstown, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement regarding reports that President Trump was readying to declare the opioid addiction epidemic a national public health emergency. In April of this year, Congressman Ryan urged President Trump to make this declaration. Just this week Congressman Ryan with other members of the House redoubled their call for decisive executive action to combat this disaster. Ryan is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction Treatment and Recover Caucus and member of the Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic. Ending the opioid and prescription drug epidemic remains one of his top priorities. “The opioid epidemic has been a national crisis in this country long before today. In every state, city, and town in the United States families and lives have been pulled apart by the devastating effects of addiction, and they need our help. In 2015, 52,404 Americans died from overdoses; that’s 142 a day. I called on the President to declare an emergency months ago, and have been dismayed by the slow pace of progress on this pressing issue since. Just yesterday, Trump’s Secretary of Health and Human Services wrongfully indicated such a declaration might be unnecessary. I am alarmed at what appears to be a dangerously uncoordinated response to the emergency unfolding in front of our eyes. The President must formally issue this order as soon as possible, and Republicans in Congress must move swiftly to appropriate federal funding to the Public Health Emergency Fund. The American people demand that the President and Congress rise to this occasion without delay,” said Congressman Ryan. A declaration of a public health emergency under either the Public Health Service Act or the Stafford Act would make federal funds available for communities struggling to cope with this ongoing addiction epidemic. Other Opioid Addiciton Legislative Actions by Congressman Ryan: ·In the 114th Congress, Rep. Ryan joined Senator Portman, Senator Whitehouse, and Congressman Sensenbrenner in introducing the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act(CARA), which leverages evidence-based law enforcement and health care services, including treatment that can be used to stop and reverse current trends. On July 22, 2016 CARA was signed into law. ·Rep. Ryan led a letter urging President Trump to include $9.3 billion in his Fiscal Year 2018 budget for 34 Administration programs at Department of Health and Human Services, Office of National Drug Control Policy and the Department of Justice. ·Rep. Ryan introduced the Stop Trafficking in Fentanyl Act – increase penalties for fentanyl trafficking ·Rep. Ryan introduced the STOP OD Act – which is designed to help stop synthetic drugs like fentanyl and carentanil from being shipped through our borders to drug traffickers in the United States ·Rep. Ryan introduced the Prescription Drug Monitoring Act – which takes important steps to bring states closer to fully interoperable Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs (PDMPs), to faster respond to inquiries and to better serve the public. ·In 115th Congress, Rep. Ryan joined Congresswoman Marcia Fudge in introducing the Breaking Addiction Act, which takes steps to increase access to treatment by making changes to the IMD exclusion for substance abuse facilities. Under current law, the Institutions for Mental Diseases (IMD) exclusion prohibits Medicaid matching payments for services provided in treatment facilities that have more than 16 beds. The Breaking Addiction Act removes this outdated policy, allowing states to better utilize Medicaid to serve more people.
08.09.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to President Trump’s rhetoric regarding North Korea. President Trump threatened the North Korean regime with "fire and fury like the world has never seen" during a photo opportunity at the Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, New Jersey on Tuesday, August 8th. “Over the past couple days, President Trump has taken one of this world’s gravest threats – nuclear conflict – and treated it in a way that is both reckless and needless. While the United States must always remain resolute in the defense of our homeland, our allies, and our interests abroad – hostile talk often leads to hostile actions, and thrusting our nation and our world into a devastating conflict because of rash and ill thought out words is unacceptable. We must be smart and cool-headed. The threat from North Korea is real, but it will not be solved by the President of the United States being baited into saber rattling from a rouge dictator. His off the cuff remarks are a grave liability, and must end. “It is well known that North Korea’s nuclear proliferation is a real and present danger for the United States. President Trump and his Administration have received regular briefings regarding the situation even before the election. That is why it is even more alarming that the Trump Administration has hardly lifted a finger to fill key diplomatic positions here and around the globe. As of today, only one of the top 32 State Department leadership positions has been filled by a Senate-confirmed appointee and President Trump has still yet to appoint a U.S. Ambassador to South Korea. Any solution to this very real conflict will need to include diplomacy, but I am afraid that as of right now the Trump State Department is not equipped for this task.”
08.08.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to the Department of Justice reversing its position in order to support the State of Ohio’s efforts to purge hundreds of thousands of eligible voters from the voter registration rolls. “The right to vote in free and fair elections in the United States is the backbone of our democracy. Citizens from every background and demographic should be ready to defend this solemn right from any threat, foreign or domestic. Yet at every turn, the Trump Administration and the Republican Party have put up roadblock after roadblock to make it harder for Americans to exercise their right to vote. They are now going after Ohio voters. The Department of Justice should be dedicated to preserving and expanding the right of every eligible citizen to vote. Under President Trump, the Justice Department has sanctioned the State of Ohio’s efforts to wrongfully strip Ohioans of their right to participate freely in the electoral process. This is an alarming development by an Administration that is proving itself to be the most dangerous to democratic norms and values in my lifetime,” said Congressman Ryan. Since the start of his term, Ohio’s Secretary of State Jon Husted has purged roughly two million voters from the registration rolls who were deemed to be inactive. In major cities like Cleveland, Columbus, and Cincinnati, voters were removed from the rolls in Democratic-leaning neighborhoods at about twice the rate as in Republican-leaning neighborhoods. These purges disproportionately affected African Americans and other minority voters, as well as low-income communities. The Obama Administration supported legal challenges by civil rights groups to this process by submitting an amicus brief to the U.S. Supreme Court, which is set to hear the case next term. The new brief, which was filed on Monday by the Trump Administration, was not signed by career attorneys in the Civil Rights Division. Congressman Ryan remains committed to making it easier for all Americans to vote, and has a long history of supporting and championing legislation that will help improve access to voting, modernize voter registration, and fight back against voter suppression: Congressman Ryan is a cosponsor of the Anti-Voter Suppression Act (HR 3214), which would reject President Trump’s recent Executive order that establishes an “election integrity” commission, which was designed to support policies that will suppress the vote in minority and low-income communities. Congressman Ryan is a cosponsor of the Voting Rights Advancement Act (HR 2978), which would restore voting protections that were struck down by the Supreme Court and help prevent state voting violations. Congressman Ryan is a cosponsor of the Automatic Voter Registration Act of 2017 (HR 2876), which requires States to automatically register eligible voters to vote in elections. Congressman Ryan is a cosponsor of the America Votes Act of 2017 (HR 2854), which would allow voters to affirm their identity by submitting a sworn, written statement. Congressman Ryan is a cosponsor of the Automatic Voter Registration Act (HR 2840), which would require each State to ensure that each individual who provides identifying information to the State motor vehicle authority is automatically enrolled to register to vote in elections for Federal office. Congressman Ryan is a cosponsor of the Streamlined and Improved Methods at Polling Locations and Early (SIMPLE) Voting Act of 2017, which promotes early voting in elections for Federal office. Congressman Ryan is a cosponsor of the Voter Empowerment Act of 2017 (HR 12), which modernizes voter registration, promote access to voting for individuals with disabilities, protect the ability of individuals to exercise the right to vote in elections for Federal office.
08.08.2017	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH), Co-Chairman of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment, and Recovery Caucus, joined with Congresswoman Annie Kuster (NH-02), the founder and co-chair of the Bipartisan Heroin Task Force, and called on President Trump to take action to address the opioid epidemic. Their letter follows the initial findings of The Commission on Combatting Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis. The letter, also signed by Representatives Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Tom O’Halleran (AZ-01), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Ted Deutch (FL-22), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Donald Norcross (NJ-01), Seth Moulton (MA-06), and Marcia Fudge (OH-11), outlines the need to increase funding for treatment and recovery services, as well as cease efforts to roll back access to health insurance. “While we appreciate that the Commission on Combatting Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis led by Governor Chris Christie finally released its interim report on July 31st, we remain concerned that the Trump Administration has not done enough to prioritize the opioid epidemic,” the members wrote. “…we request that you immediately call on Congress to provide emergency appropriations to combat the opioid epidemic and to cease their efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act,” the members continued. “Without addressing these two areas of concern, an effective response to this 21st Century public health emergency will be inadequate. “We are all concerned by the impact of this epidemic on our communities across the country and across all demographics. We are prepared to work with you to help fulfill your campaign promise to ‘end the opioid epidemic in America.’ Without bipartisan legislative action, the recommendations outlined by your Commission’s interim report will remain unfulfilled.” The full text of the letter is available here and below. August 7, 2017 President Donald J. Trump The White House Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, While we appreciate that the Commission on Combatting Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis led by Governor Chris Christie finally released its interim report on July 31st, we remain concerned that the Trump Administration has not done enough to prioritize the opioid epidemic. As Governor Christie and the interim report stated, the opioid and heroin crisis now takes more Americans every three weeks than the devastating September 11th terrorist attack on the World Trade Center. Yet, it took over six months, and two failed deadlines, for your Commission to release its policy recommendations. Nearly all of those policy recommendations mirror those championed by Senators and Representatives of both parties since this crisis began. In fact, many of the recommendations exist as pending, bipartisan legislation in both chambers of Congress. While it is encouraging that the recommendations presented by the Commission appear to be bipartisan, it inadequately addressed the two main issues stymying our current efforts to provide sufficient treatment and recovery services: funding for treatment and access to care. The lack of funding for essential treatment and recovery services is a persistent barrier to effectively addressing the opioid crisis. There has been insufficient investment in treatment options by the federal government and it has made a national response to this crisis slow and inconsistent. Discouragingly, the impact of inadequate funding will be immediately felt if the Commission’s number one recommendation is enacted – the declaration of a national public health emergency. The Public Health Services Act, which authorized the President to declare national public health emergencies, also authorized a Public Health Emergency Fund that could only be used to support federal efforts to address a public health emergency. Unfortunately, this Fund is currently empty. While the declaration of a public health emergency would provide some additional federal flexibility, the Administration would be severely constrained unless Congress acts quickly to provide emergency appropriations to the Fund. Additionally, access to quality and affordable health care remains a significant concern. It is encouraging that the Commission highlighted the need to better enforce mental health and substance use treatment parity with private insurers. These statutory improvements were passed as part of the 21st Century Cures Act to address concerns that insurers were not providing appropriate coverage for treatment of substance use disorder and other mental health concerns. Unfortunately, Congressional Republicans and the Trump Administration continue to seek repeal of existing law designed to increase overall access to health care, which would lead to cuts to Medicaid and the elimination of Medicaid expansion. If these efforts ever succeed, the impact would largely neuter any improvements in enforcing mental health parity laws as envisioned by the Commission. If people cannot access affordable healthcare, then enforcing parity laws will have no benefit to those individuals and families. On the July 31st teleconference announcing the interim report, Governor Ray Cooper, one of the commissioners, acknowledged the need to ensure access to health insurance to ensure Americans have the ability to seek effective treatment and recovery services. Consequently, we request that you immediately call on Congress to provide emergency appropriations to combat the opioid epidemic and to cease their efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Without addressing these two areas of concern, an effective response to this 21st Century public health emergency will be inadequate. We are all concerned by the impact of this epidemic on our communities across the country and across all demographics. We are prepared to work with you to help fulfill your campaign promise to “end the opioid epidemic in America.” Without bipartisan legislative action, the recommendations outlined by your Commission’s interim report will remain unfulfilled. Thank you for consideration of our request. Sincerely, Rep. Ann McLane Kuster Rep. Marcy Kaptur Rep. Tim Ryan Rep. Tom O’Halleran Rep. Joe Courtney Rep. Ted Deutch Rep. Carol Shea-Porter Rep. Chellie Pingree Rep. Donald Norcross Rep. Seth Moulton Rep. Marcia Fudge
08.07.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today announces the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) announcement of $498,880 to encourage Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) participants in Youngstown, Ohio to purchase healthy foods. In December of 2016, Ryan urged the USDA National Institutes of Food and Agriculture to approve Youngstown Neighborhood Development Corporation’s proposal. Read more here. “I was proud that the Youngstown Neighborhood Development Corporation was awarded this important funding to help bring nutritious and healthy food to Youngstown families in need. SNAP is a program that works, and is deserving of more support. This funding will provide incentives for people to buy fresh fruits and vegetables and help provide farmers with a local market to sell their products. Healthy foods should be available to every one of our children, and I promise to continue to use my position to fight to ensure that we are not leaving anyone behind,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. "This project, entitled Eating for Health in the Mahoning Valley, will increase food access in the Mahoning Valley by broadening funding to help SNAP/EBT customers purchase fresh produce at 6 farmers markets and local food outlets and will also expand the Mercy Health Fruit and Vegetable Prescription Program. The 4 year project is being significantly supported by Mercy Health Foundation and includes over 15 project partners working together to support families while increasing revenues to local farmers," said Liberty Avila, Land Reuse Director at Youngstown Neighborhood Development Corporation. This money was awarded as a part of a larger $16.8 million investment by the USDA to be distributed through 32 grants to help SNAP participants increase their purchases of fruits and vegetables. The program is operated by the USDA National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA). The funding comes from the Food Insecurity Nutrition Incentive (FINI) program, authorized by the 2014 Farm Bill. The awards represent a wide variety of projects, including small pilot projects, multi-year community-based projects, and larger-scale multi-year projects. Last year, SNAP helped put healthy food on the tables of at least 44 million Americans, including 19 million children.
08.03.2017	Akron, Ohio – Representatives Tim Ryan (OH-13) and Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) announce $5,715,600 to the City of Akron to make critical improvements to Evans Avenue. This funding was made available through the Department of Transportation’s FASTLANE Grant program. Evans Avenue currently carries approximately 4,000 vehicles per day and has two at-grade crossings with CSXT Railroad and the Akron Metro Regional Transit Authority (RTA). Metro RTA is refurbishing this rail line in order to accommodate 10 passenger rail transits daily in the corridor. The project will realign a short section of Evans Avenue and construct two bridges over existing CSXT and Metro RTA rail lines. This funding will go towards helping to remove a potentially dangerous crossing for drivers and encourage business development by removing transportation delays. “As the City of Akron continues to work towards redeveloping its downtown, this project will be critical towards creating an inviting connection into and out of the city and will help grow new and existing businesses in our community. I was proud to work with my good friend and colleague, Representative Fudge, to help secure this important funding. These are the type of federal investments we must continue to support and fight for to help our local cities grow and flourish. I will continue to work every day to bring home the resources necessary to create a better and brighter future for Akron and Northeast Ohio,” said Rep. Ryan. “This is great news for the 11th Congressional District and the City of Akron. The FASTLANE Grant will help improve commuter rail, enhance regional commerce, and connect Northeast Ohioans through infrastructure updates and much-needed construction projects. I congratulate Mayor Dan Horrigan for receiving these funds and thank the U.S. Department of Transportation for its continued commitment to improving transportation in our region,” said Rep. Fudge. In March 2016, Ryan and Fudge urged former Secretary of Transportation Anthony R. Foxx to approve funding for Akron’s FASTLANE Grant. Read Ryan’s letter here. Read Fudge’s letter here. ###
08.03.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to the Department of Education’s wavering on honoring its commitments to forgive student loan debt after ten years of service under their Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) program. This program was created under the College Cost Reduction Act of 2007, which was signed into law by President George W. Bush. Ryan voted in favor of this legislation. “Hundreds of thousands of Americans have made life altering decisions to serve in various professional capacities as a result of assurances from the Department of Education that, under their Public Service Loan Forgiveness program, debt remaining after ten years of public service work would be cleared. Dangling uncertainty about the Department’s commitment to upholding its end of the deal is fundamentally unfair to those already participating in this program, and may damage the underlying goal of the program in the first place: to get professionals to pursue careers as teachers, public defenders, social workers, and doctors. These jobs provide invaluable services to their communities, but typically offer lower pay and far fewer benefits making it hard to recruit and retain talent. Letting this program fall apart could have devastating consequences across the entire country, particularly to those men and women who have made decisions based on promises of the U.S. Government. The Department of Education and Secretary DeVos must honor these commitments,” said Congressman Ryan. In April, Congressman Tim Ryan joined colleagues on a letter urging Secretary DeVos to review the Department of Education’s implementation of the program to ensure that it is consistent, transparent and impartial for all student-loan borrowers employed in public service. The text of that letter can be found below: April 24, 2017 The Honorable Betsy DeVos Secretary of Education U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20202 Dear Secretary DeVos: We write to express our serious concern over the U.S. Department of Education's ("Department") failure to honor its assurances to participants in the Public Service Loan Forgiveness ("PSLF") program, with respect to certain employer certifications. We urge you to review the Department’s implementation of PSLF for consistency, transparency, and fairness, in order to restore trust in the program for those who have chosen to pursue public service. Careers in public service – which typically offer lower pay and fewer benefits than those in the private sector – greatly benefit underserved, urban, rural, and tribal communities. To encourage more professionals to pursue public service careers, Congress included the PSLF program within the bipartisan College Cost Reduction and Access Act (“CCRAA”) of 2007. Under PSLF, public servants across the country who work in education, public health, the military and many other sectors dedicate at least ten years of their lives to helping their communities, and in return, their student loan debt is forgiven. Many of these individuals take out loans, complete their education, and enter careers in public service partially because they have been assured that their debt will be relieved. Student loan borrowers who meet their loan forgiveness requirements rightfully expect federal agencies to follow through on their end of the bargain. However, with increasing frequency over the last year, the Department has suggested that PSLF participants may not be able to rely on the agency’s prior assurances that participants’ employment qualifies for loan forgiveness. Instead, the Department has taken the position that it is not bound by previously issued employment certifications. This is irresponsible. PSLF participants – especially those who have taken proactive steps to certify their employment and were told that their place of employment qualified for the program– should be rewarded for their efforts in helping their communities and improving our country. Instead, they are having the rug pulled out from under them. The intention of the certification process was to provide aspiring participants with clear front-end assurance that they will receive the promised forgiveness after ten years of public service. It is unacceptable for the Department to revoke or retroactively deny employer certifications for PSLF participants after issuing such assurances. The Department must honor its commitment to borrowers by recognizing approved Employment Certification Forms. To do otherwise completely undermines the financial calculus that individuals made when choosing to participate in the program and leaves them stranded with an unexpected and undue debt burden. Moreover, we urge the Department to carefully consider its employment certification decisions in light of the CCRAA. In passing this law, it was Congress’ intent to promote public service and provide public service employers with additional recruitment tools. A great deal of confusion persists for PSLF participants employed by non-profit organizations that provide a public service but are not categorized under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. This uncertainty threatens to erode trust in PSLF as a program, discourage potential participants from entering public service, and undermine recruitment efforts by employers serving at-risk communities. Much of the present confusion regarding PSLF could be prevented if the Department was more transparent in its operation and implementation of the program. For example, if a borrower’s Employment Certification Form is denied by the Department, the denial should clearly state the reason why the employer is not eligible under the PSLF program. The Department should create a formal appeals process and disclose that process at the time of certification. Information should include how the borrower may work with his or her employer to provide the documentation necessary for PSLF qualification. In addition, the Department should take appropriate steps to inform the borrower of other loan repayment options and loan forgiveness programs available to the borrower. Finally, the Department should move forward with making the PSLF employment certification process fully accessible electronically, including the ability to electronically sign and file forms. By adopting the policies outlined above, the Department would provide PSLF applicants more confidence to pursue public service careers. This coming September, less than six months from today, marks the first opportunity for eligible borrowers to claim forgiveness after meeting their obligations for ten years. As of last year, over 550,000 borrowers have an approved Employment Certification Form. Given the urgency of this time frame, and the breadth of the program’s reach, we respectfully join our Senate colleagues in requesting your response as expeditiously as possible. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Tim Ryan
08.03.2017	Washington, DC -- Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) today praised the unanimous Senate passage of the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Education Assistance Act, of which he is an original co-sponsor of the House legislation. This legislation, also known as the “Forever GI Bill” provides comprehensive improvements to the GI Bill benefits for our Veterans and servicemembers. The bill previously passed the House in a bipartisan vote, 405 for and 0 against. “I was proud to cast my vote in favor of this bipartisan legislation in the House, which is designed to honor America’s commitment to our military past and present. I am equally as proud to see my colleagues in the Senate expeditiously pass this legislation in an overwhelmingly bipartisan manner. This legislation was developed by working closely with Veterans Service Organizations in order to truly meet the needs of our Veterans. Taking care of our servicemembers and veterans is the solemn responsibility of each Member of Congress, and one that as a member of the Defense and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittees I take very seriously,” said Congressman Ryan. “I am also pleased that this legislation includes language similar to my Veterans Priority Enrollment Act, incorporating a VA Comparison Tool, which will let Veterans have clear answers on which schools offer veteran’s priority registration. We should be doing everything in our power to make it easier for our men and women in uniform to get a stress free, quality education, and I am glad this bill, which will soon become law, takes a good step forward in this direction.” This bill also: ---Improves benefits for Servicemembers and Veterans by o establishing a pilot program to provide coding and IT bootcamps, as well as other high technology accelerated learning programs, to Veterans. o Restoring and protecting GI Bill benefits for veterans when a school closes in the middle of a semester, which impacted many Ohio Veterans when ITT Tech unexpectedly closed mid-semester. o Making it easier and cheaper for Veterans to use their GI bill to take national tests or tests that lead to a license or credential. ---Provides an additional 9 months of GI Bill eligibility for veterans working for STEM degrees. This will benefit more than 3,300 Veterans per year and help our nation increase expertise in these critical fields. ---Supports tens of thousands of National Guard and Reservists by: o Removing arbitrary distinctions in GI Bill eligibility based on different administrative codes in National Guard orders. o Increasing eligibility for those with less than 36-months of active duty time. ---Honors our commitment to those who gave the most: o Provides full Post 9/11 GI Bill eligibility to all Purple Heart recipients. oExtends Yellow Ribbon Program eligibility to Purple Heart recipients and survivor dependents (spouses and children) receiving benefits under the Fry Scholarship. o Establishes the first increase in decades to benefits for survivor and 100% disabled Veteran dependents using the Dependent Education Benefit. This will positively impact 100,000 Americans. ---Simplifies the system and reduces administrative costs by: o Providing the same GI Bill benefits to all our Veterans and servicemembers regardless of if they served pre- or post- 9/11. Our Vietnam and Cold War era Veterans earned our highest degree of respect and care in the same manner as our Post 9/11 Veterans. o Improving the VA’s IT infrastructure and admin processes to provide quicker and more accurate claim support. Congressman Ryan has introduced the Veterans Priority Enrollment Act of 2017 (HR 1793), which requires that any university, community college or other educational institutions that offer priority enrollment, similar to those available to student athletes, must also make it available to our veterans and servicemembers. The Forever GI Bill includes similar language that will help increase access to priority registration for Veteran’s unique schedule needs.
08.02.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement decrying the Trump Administration's efforts to use the Department of Justice to attack affirmative action policies at colleges and universities across the United States. "President Donald Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions have brought the Department of Justice to a new low. Their decision to redirect the Civil Rights Division's resources toward attacking colleges and universities who actively seek to recruit diverse student populations is a travesty, and flies in the face of our laws. This is a blatantly political move with the explicit intent to pit American's against one another. Our goal should be to work towards ensuring that all people - including historically disenfranchised communities -- have an equal shot at the American Dream. This decision will reduce opportunities for those Americans who are working hard, playing by the rules, and just trying to reach their full potential. Shame on this Administration for turning their backs on these citizens. I call on President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions to abandon this reckless venture," said Congressman Ryan.
08.01.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released this statement following the publication of the White House Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis Preliminary Report. The report, among other things, urges President Trump to declare a national emergency under either the Public Health Service Act or the Stafford Act. Such a declaration make federal funds available for communities struggling to cope with this ongoing addiction epidemic. In April of this year, Congressman Ryan urged President Trump to declare a public health emergency. Ryan is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction Treatment and Recover Caucus and member of the Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic. Ending the opioid and prescription drug epidemic remains one of his top priorities. “We lose 142 people every day to drug overdoses in the United States, making it the number one cause of accidental death. In 2015, we lost over 52,000 Americans to this terrible epidemic. We cannot turn a blind eye to the catastrophic nature of this ongoing crisis. That is why in April I called on President Trump to declare the opioid epidemic a Public Health Emergency. I am pleased that the White House Opioid Crisis Commission has reached the same conclusion, and I urge him to take swift action to fulfill this request. Lives depend on it each and every day,” said Congressman Ryan. “I am also pleased to see that the Commission recognizes that the Institutes for Mental Diseases (IMD) exclusion prohibiting Medicaid payments for facilities with more than 16 beds is preventing men and women from getting the treatment they need, and that this outdated policy needs to be repealed. I am proud to have joined with Congresswoman Fudge in introducing the Breaking Addiction Act, which would eliminate the IMD exclusion and increase access to addiction treatment. I call on my colleagues to bring up this legislation immediately so we can help combat this ongoing epidemic.” Other Opioid Addiciton Legislative Actions by Congressman Ryan: ·In the 114th Congress, Rep. Ryan joined Senator Portman, Senator Whitehouse, and Congressman Sensenbrenner in introducing the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act(CARA), which leverages evidence-based law enforcement and health care services, including treatment that can be used to stop and reverse current trends. On July 22, 2016 CARA was signed into law. ·Rep. Ryan led a letter urging President Trump to include $9.3 billion in his Fiscal Year 2018 budget for 34 Administration programs at Department of Health and Human Services, Office of National Drug Control Policy and the Department of Justice. ·Rep. Ryan introduced the Stop Trafficking in Fentanyl Act – increase penalties for fentanyl trafficking ·Rep. Ryan introduced the STOP OD Act – which is designed to help stop synthetic drugs like fentanyl and carentanil from being shipped through our borders to drug traffickers in the United States ·Rep. Ryan introduced the Prescription Drug Monitoring Act – which takes important steps to bring states closer to fully interoperable Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs (PDMPs), to faster respond to inquiries and to better serve the public. ·In 115th Congress, Rep. Ryan joined Congresswoman Marcia Fudge in introducing the Breaking Addiction Act, which takes steps to increase access to treatment by making changes to the IMD exclusion for substance abuse facilities. Under current law, the Institutions for Mental Diseases (IMD) exclusion prohibits Medicaid matching payments for services provided in treatment facilities that have more than 16 beds. The Breaking Addiction Act removes this outdated policy, allowing states to better utilize Medicaid to serve more people.
08.01.2017	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement applauding the Ohio Department of Insurance announcement that insurers will cover 19 of the 20 counties that were set to lose insurance options on the federal healthcare exchange next year. These insurers include Buckeye Health Plan, CareSource, Medical Mutual of Ohio, Molina Health Care of Ohio, and Paramount Health Care. The Ohio Department of Insurance is still working to bring coverage to Paulding County – the 20th county. These counties were set to lose options in the federal exchange next year due to Anthem’s announced withdrawal from the marketplace in June. “I was deeply disappointed when I learned of Anthem’s decision to withdrawal from Ohio’s health insurance marketplace, leaving thousands of Ohioans with no insurance options. I applaud the Ohio Department of Insurance and the five insurers for working together and coming up with a plan to cover 19 of the 20 counties, and I look forward to a solution for Paulding County. This shows what we can achieve when our government institutions take initiative to ensure our national healthcare system works for all Americans,” said Congressman Ryan. The 19 counties regaining coverage are Coshocton, Crawford, Guernsey, Hancock, Harrison, Hocking, Holmes, Jackson, Knox, Lawrence, Logan, Morgan, Muskingum, Noble, Perry, Van Wert, Vinton, Williams and Wyandot.
07.28.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to the failure of Senate Republican's "skinny repeal" plan. “‘We’re not celebrating, we’re relieved.’ Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer may have said it best. We are relieved that tens of millions of Americans who gained health insurance, many for the first time, will be able to keep their coverage. We are relieved that premiums will not spike 20%. We are relieved that Americans living with disabilities, preexisting conditions, battling addiction, or facing economic hardships will not be thrown under the bus. Last night’s historic vote was a win for those people, but it was also a win for political engagement. Every phone call, letter, and tweet helped stop for now this dangerous and destructive legislation. Now that we’re here, it is urgent that Congressional Republicans engage with Democrats in a meaningful way to continue to expand coverage to all, and make it as affordable as possible. The American people are not interested in cheap political points, they want results. I ran for elected office to make the lives of my constituents better, not worse,” said Congressman Ryan.
07.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Tim Walberg (R-MI) today introduced the Great Lakes Agricultural Stewardship Act to promote conservation efforts throughout the Great Lakes region. The bipartisan legislation provides federal assistance to Great Lakes states that administer voluntary assurance programs to help farms minimize agricultural pollution risks, like harmful algae blooms on Lake Erie. These programs, such as the Michigan Agriculture Environmental Assurance Program (MAEAP), have successfully aided farmers to improve conservation, reduce soil erosion, and decrease nutrient runoff. “The Great Lakes are a vital resource and strategic advantage and it’s critical that we do everything in our power to safeguard their health and well-being. Lake Erie alone supports more than 117,000 full time jobs and provides clean drinking water to approximately 3 million Ohioans,” said Congressman Ryan. “This important legislation would encourage greater conservation practices aimed at reducing agricultural run-off which negatively impacts the Great Lakes and all those who benefit from them.” “The Great Lakes are a leading driver of Michigan’s economy and an indispensable resource for our state and nation as a whole,” said Congressman Walberg. “It is our duty to encourage responsible stewardship and conservation best practices to help ensure the long-term health of Lake Erie and the entire the Great Lakes ecosystem. By expanding Michigan’s successful MAEAP model throughout the region, we can take important steps to further protect the Great Lakes for generations to come.” “We applaud Congressman Walberg for introducing the Great Lakes Agricultural Stewardship Act,” said Carl Bednarski, President of the Michigan Farm Bureau. “This legislation builds on the successes of the Michigan Agricultural Environmental Assurance Program (MAEAP) and will help Michigan farmers and those throughout the Great Lakes to implement conservation stewardship programs. More than 10,000 Michigan farmers have completed or are in the process of adopting and implementing MAEAP practices. We appreciate Congressman Walberg’s efforts on bringing attention to this important issue.”
07.27.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today announced $428,572 awarded to the Girard Fire Department and $178,182 to the Barberton Fire Department from the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). “This is fantastic news for the firefighters who put their lives on the line every day to protect the local community. It is vital that we provide funding to ensure local fire departments have adequate funding for the resources they need to keep our community safe. These grants will ensure the health and safety of our firefighters and first responders. It is our responsibility to have their backs and I will continue to advocate to bring these funds to our communities across Northeast Ohio,” said Congressman Ryan. The Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public – as well as that of first-responder personnel. Operations and Safety grants can be used for hiring, professional training, wellness and fitness programs equipment, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety.
07.26.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to President Trump’s announced ban on transgender servicemembers. “I am disgusted by the President Trump’s decision to ban transgender Americans from serving in the United States military. As we face growing threats in North Korea, ISIS and other actors around the world, it is more imperative than ever that we are recruiting the best and brightest Americans to defend our nation. Yet Donald Trump’s hateful and discriminatory decision arbitrarily reduces our pool of applicants. This is a non-issue being made into an issue to score cheap political points rather than address legitimate national security concerns. Donald Trump is quick to tout his love of the troops, but it is clear that his love and support is conditional. “More than 134,000 of our retired Veterans are transgender, and there are currently 15,000 transgender servicemembers proudly serving openly in our military today. Is President Trump really going to fire them because of who they are? Since President Obama repealed the antiquated and discriminatory requirement for these patriots to serve in silence, we have only seen positive impacts on the strength of our Armed Forces and their readiness to protect our country. As a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, I refuse to discriminate against those who selflessly chose to serve our nation in the United States Armed Forces. Our nation is stronger than that hateful bias. It is appalling to see what lengths this President will go to divide us. These citizens put their lives on the line to preserve the freedom of all Americans. Today it may be transgender Americans. Tomorrow it will be another group that President Trump demeans in order to deflect attention from his legislative impotence.”
07.25.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement on Senate Republican's vote to begin debate on Trumpcare. The Senate Motion to Proceed was passed 51-50. “While the successful vote to begin debate feels like a defeat, the reality is that this procedural vote was just the first step of many that stand between this moment and the repeal of the Affordable Care Act. It is now more important than ever to engage in the political process, to make sure those who represent you in Congress don’t support a bill that will rip healthcare away from tens of millions of Americans, make premiums skyrocket, and throw people with preexisting conditions under the bus. President Trump and Senate Republicans should be ashamed of themselves. The number one priority for any national healthcare policy should be how to insure more people, bring costs down, and improve the coverage they receive. Trumpcare does none of these things,” said Congressman Ryan.
07.25.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) today praised the passage of the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Education Assistance Act, of which he is an original co-sponsor. This legislation, also known as the “Forever GI Bill” provides comprehensive improvements to the GI Bill benefits for our Veterans and servicemembers. The bill was passed in a bipartisian vote, 405 for and 0 against. “I was proud to cast my vote in favor of this bipartisan bill, which is designed to honor America’s commitment to our military past and present. This legislation was developed by working closely with Veterans Service Organizations in order to truly meet the needs of our Veterans. Taking care of our servicemembers and veterans is the solemn responsibility of each Member of Congress, and one that as a member of the Defense and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittees I take very seriously,” said Congressman Ryan. “I am also pleased that this legislation includes language similar to my Veterans Priority Enrollment Act, incorporating a VA Comparison Tool, which will let Veterans have clear answers on which schools offer veteran’s priority registration. We should be doing everything in our power to make it easier for our men and women in uniform to get a stress free, quality education, and I am glad this bill takes a good step forward in this direction.” This bill also: Improves benefits for Servicemembers and Veterans by establishing a pilot program to provide coding and IT bootcamps, as well as other high technology accelerated learning programs, to Veterans. Restoring and protecting GI Bill benefits for veterans when a school closes in the middle of a semester, which impacted many Ohio Veterans when ITT Tech unexpectedly closed mid-semester. Making it easier and cheaper for Veterans to use their GI bill to take national tests or tests that lead to a license or credential. Provides an additional 9 months of GI Bill eligibility for veterans working for STEM degrees. This will benefit more than 3,300 Veterans per year and help our nation increase expertise in these critical fields. Supports tens of thousands of National Guard and Reservists by: Removing arbitrary distinctions in GI Bill eligibility based on different administrative codes in National Guard orders. Increasing eligibility for those with less than 36-months of active duty time. Provides full Post 9/11 GI Bill eligibility to all Purple Heart recipients. Extends Yellow Ribbon Program eligibility to Purple Heart recipients and survivor dependents (spouses and children) receiving benefits under the Fry Scholarship. Establishes the first increase in decades to benefits for survivor and 100% disabled Veteran dependents using the Dependent Education Benefit. This will positively impact 100,000 Americans. Providing the same GI Bill benefits to all our Veterans and servicemembers regardless of if they served pre- or post- 9/11. Our Vietnam and Cold War era Veterans earned our highest degree of respect and care in the same manner as our Post 9/11 Veterans. Improving the VA’s IT infrastructure and admin processes to provide quicker and more accurate claim support. Honors our commitment to those who gave the most: Simplifies the system and reduces administrative costs by: Congressman Ryan has introduced the Veterans Priority Enrollment Act of 2017 (HR 1793), which requires that any university, community college or other educational institutions that offer priority enrollment, similar to those available to student athletes, must also make it available to our veterans and servicemembers. The Forever GI Bill includes similar language that will help increase access to priority registration for Veteran’s unique schedule needs.
07.20.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement upon hearing the news of former Congressman Ralph S. Regula. “Ralph Regula was many things. A loving father and husband, a committed public servant, and a gentleman known for his ability to bring people together. But I will always remember him as a mentor and a friend. Ralph was the first person to walk up to me on the House Floor when I came to Congress 15 years ago and he remained a person I looked up to throughout the years. His example of public service was one I strived to replicate, and his emphasis on getting the people’s work done and not getting distracted by petty political fights is something Washington would do well to remember today. Andrea and I are sending our thoughts and prayers to his wife, Mary, and their three children. Ohio and the nation lost a truly great public servant. He was a champion for Northeast Ohio and will be greatly missed,” said Congressman Ryan.
07.20.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan applauded the inclusion of language for promoting maker education and studying the effects of teacher stress in the FY2018 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Bill in the Manager’s Amendment. Due to unacceptable cuts to effective and important programs and benefits designed to lift up hardworking American’s and their families, Ryan voted against the final bill, which passed by a party-line vote of 28 - 22. “The renaissance of the maker movement and accompanying technologies has enormous potential to reshape our national economy. Tools such as 3D printers, desktop machines, and programs for digital design are becoming more affordable and accessible. None of that matters, however, if we don’t have a workforce trained to use them. That is why I am so pleased that language from my 21st Century Shop Class Act was included in the manager’s amendment. Maker education and makerspaces exposes students to hands-on, project based learning approaches that build critical skills needed to increase economic growth and encourages students to imagine, create, innovate, collaborate through the process of manufacturing, testing and demonstrating their ideas. This language will encourage more and more schools to incorporate maker education and makerspaces into their curriculum to prepare our children for the future,” said Congressman Ryan. “I am also pleased that the Committee recognized that high levels of stress are adversely affecting the health of our teachers, by incorporating language from my Teacher Health and Wellness Act into the bill. Before they can take care of our students, teachers must take care of themselves. Their important work can be mentally taxing, and having the tools available to manage these stresses is crucial to making sure our students are getting a first rate education. By instructing the Director of the National Institute of Health to study this issue, we are putting ourselves on course to be able to successfully develop a plan to manage the issue of teacher stress, and guarantee better educational outcomes for our children, and a better quality of life for our teachers. ” In addition to those provisions, Congressman Ryan also offered an amendment to restore funding which was previously cut or eliminated to several important education programs. “I am saddened that Republicans on Committee voted against this amendment. Investing in education is an investment in our economy, and our children’s future. Making sure our students have access to quality education and the skills they need to succeed in the 21st Century should be one of the top priorities of this Committee. My amendment would have been a small step into making this bill better, but instead this legislation cuts not only education programs like Pell Grants and Title II funding, but also Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Grants for States, Job Corps, Apprenticeship Grants, and more. This bill turns it back on hardworking families and the programs and services that they rely on every day to make their lives better. I expected more from this Committee and so do my constituents.” The amendment was defeated in a 23 - 29 vote. The Ryan Amendment would have restored funding to the following programs: Restores elimination of Comprehensive Literacy Development Grants to FY17 level ($190 million over House bill). Restores Title II-A/Supporting Effective Instruction Grants to FY17 level of $2.1 billion (House eliminates). Increases funds to FY17 level of $1.19 billion for 21st Century Community Learning Centers ($191.67 million over House bill). Restores cut/elimination of $100 million for Education Innovation and Research. Restores $1,815,000 cut/elimination of American History and Civics National Academies. Restores cut/elimination of $14,500,000 for School Leader Recruitment and Support. Restores cut/elimination of $27,000,000 for Arts in Education. Restores cut of $1.18 million to Magnet Schools Assistance for a total of $97.6 million. Restores cut of $23 million for Supporting Effective Educator Development for a total of $65 million. Restores cut of $13.25 million for Promise Neighborhoods for a total of $73.25 million. Restores cut/elimination of $12.67 million for Special Olympics/programs for kids with intellectual disabilities. Restores cut/elimination of $27.55 million for Supported Employment Grants. Restores cut/elimination of $7.06 million for International Education: Overseas Programs. Restores cut/elimination of $43.09 million for Teacher Quality Partnerships. Restore cut/elimination of $15.1 million for Child Care Access Means Parents in School Program (CCAMPIS). Restores cut of $22.27 million to Graduate Assistance in Areas of National Need (GAANN). Restores cut of $.039 million to Historically Black Colleges and Universities Capital Financing for total of $20.48 million. Restores $3.3 billion rescission to Pell surplus. Congressman Ryan introduced the 21st Century Shop Class Act in May of 2017. This legislation would upgrade and modernize career and technical education programs in schools across the country. The 21st Century SHOP CLASS Act would define maker education and makerspaces, and amend the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act to allow funding for maker education, makerspaces, and training for teachers in the application of maker education. Learn more about the bill here: Congressman Ryan introduced the Teacher Health and Wellness Act in May of 2017. This bill would provide support for teachers by creating a pilot study at the National Institute of Health aimed at reducing teacher stress, increasing teacher health and ultimately boosting student achievement. Learn more about the bill here:
07.19.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan issued this statement following the release of the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office’s (CBO) score of the latest Senate Republican plan to fully repeal the Affordable Care Act with no replacement. “Senate Republicans have truly saved their worst healthcare plan for hopefully their last. And let’s be clear: their plan is to have no plan. A full repeal, without any sort of provision for healthcare reform in the US, would leave more than 32 million more Americans without insurance and send premiums skyrocketing. For scale, the state of Ohio has a population of 11.6 million. The human cost of this reckless, blatantly political and vindictive move would be nearly impossible to comprehend if it weren’t for the thousands and thousands of calls, letters, tweets, and office visits myself and my colleagues have received over the last several months. These people are scared and they are using their voices to share how much they and their families depend on their Medicare and health insurance. This is a dangerous bill, and any Senator with the American people's best interests at heart should vote NO,” said Congressman Ryan.
07.19.2017	Washington, DC -- Today, legislative language from the HOT CARS Act was passed out of the Digital Commerce and Consumer Protection Subcommittee in the Energy and Commerce Committee as part of the committee draft of the Highly Automated Vehicle Testing and Deployment Act. After its passage, Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH), Peter King (R-NY), and Subcommittee Ranking Member Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) released the following statements: “No child should endure the tragedy of dying while trapped in a hot vehicle. The unfortunate reality is that even good, loving and attentive parents can get distracted. Studies have shown that this can happen to anyone, anywhere. That is why I am proud to hear that the Digital Commerce and Consumer Protection Subcommittee of Energy and Commerce Committee has advanced the Highly Automated Vehicle Testing and Deployment Act of 2017, which included language from our HOT CARS Act. This legislation will help mobilize inexpensive, readily available rear seat technology to save children’s lives. Representatives Schakowsky, King and myself will continue to push this issue in any forum we can. Our kids are worth it,” said Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH). “I am proud that we were able to include language from our HOT CARS bill in the legislation that advanced through my Subcommittee today,” said Ranking Member Schakowsky (D-IL). “Already, 22 children have died from heatstroke in vehicles this year. You get a warning when you leave the keys in the car. You should get a warning if you leave a child in the car. It’s time for action, and the language in this draft would be a great step forward. Children are dying preventable deaths – we cannot afford to wait.” “I am proud to work with Reps Ryan and Schakowsky on this important legislation. Today’s efforts are an important step. The belief is that it can’t happen to you, always someone else. Unfortunately it happens over and over again, even to the most conscientious parents. Technology is available and it can be placed in new vehicles to protect innocent children. It’s really that simple,” said Congressman Peter King (R-NY).
07.19.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan applauds the inclusion of $300 million in the Interior Appropriation Bill dedicated to fully funding of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). President Trump’s first budget proposal to Congress sought to eliminate funding for this important program. Despite this inclusion of funding, Congressman Ryan was forced to vote against the bill because of draconian cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and other important programs. The measure passed 30-21 in a roll call vote. “The Great Lakes are a vital resource and strategic advantage and it’s critical that we do everything in our power to safeguard their health and well-being. Lake Erie alone supports more than 117,000 full time jobs and provides clean drinking water to approximately 3 million Ohioans. President Trump’s attempt to take a sledgehammer to the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative for ideological reasons demonstrates a basic lack of understanding for just how important these lakes are to the region, and the nation. I am glad to see this funding included, and will do everything I can as a member of Congress to continue fighting to protect the Great Lakes,” said Congressman Ryan. “Unfortunately, while acknowledging the importance of protecting some natural resources, the overall appropriations bill made unacceptable cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency. This legislation allows corporations to profit off of our environment, without being held accountable for cleaning up after themselves. I was left with no choice but to vote against the final legislation. We must do more so that our children and grandchildren are left with a planet better off than the one we inherited.”
07.18.2017	Youngstown, Ohio -- Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) made the following statement regarding President Trumps planned trip to Youngstown next week. “Donald Trump made a lot of promises to Youngstown, and communities that look a lot like ours, and I am eager to hear if he has plans to implement any of them. As of now, I have only seen a long line of broken promises. We need good paying jobs. We need an infrastructure package that brings us into the 21st century. We need to address the opioid epidemic that is ripping apart families here in Ohio and across the country. We need to increase coverage and strengthen the American healthcare system – not raise costs and kick 23 million Americans off their plans. The people of Youngstown expect results. I'm waiting."
07.18.2017	Washington, DC – Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH-13) and Ben Ray Luján (D-NM-03) today introduced the Alleviating Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs) Act, which increases and streamlines funding for early childhood home visiting services. There is considerable evidence that home visiting and pediatric-based services have been extremely successful in preventing adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) such as mistreatment, neglect, or sexual abuse. Home visiting is also credited with lowering health care costs and reducing the need for social services, like food and income assistance, in addition to foster care placements. Today, the primary program for home visiting and pediatric-based services, the Maternal, Infant and Early Childhood Home Visiting (MIECHV), provides funding to all 50 states and territories, as well as numerous tribal nations. Both Ryan and Luján fully support the clean and full reauthorization of MIECHV, with incremental funding increases bringing it to $800 million a year by the end of five years. This program supplies home visiting models for at-risk families in order to improve outcomes such as greater school readiness, infant and maternal health, as well as combat child abuse and neglect. While MIECHV has proven to be effective in combating the effects of Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs) such as neglect, mistreatment, and sexual abuse, funding in recent years has proven inadequate to meet growing needs, and states often find the current funding mechanism cumbersome. That’s why Ryan and Luján have introduced the ACEs Act, which would provide states with additional funds to supplement the MIECHV program and address current gaps in coverage. “Congress is in a unique position to be able to help kids in need across the country. As studies show nearly 1 in 4 children experience an adverse childhood experience before they start school, our legislation would provide states with an important tool to expand home visiting programs that have proven to be so impactful,” said Congressman Ryan. “There are children across the country who need our help, and it is our job as members of Congress to provide every resource necessary to ensure that no child is forced to endure abuse or neglect.” “I am committed to improving the lives of vulnerable children, and one way to do that is to develop new and innovative ways to expand and supplement successful programs. In order to ensure that families who most need help are not left behind, I will be supporting the full reauthorization of federal funding for the MIECHV home visitation program. Once we have secured this funding, we must pursue options that give states access to additional resources that allow them expand programs that are working.” Said Congressman Luján. Adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) include emotional, physical, and sexual abuse, as well as emotional and physical neglect. They also comprise stressors such as living in a household with someone suffering from mental illness, someone who has substance abuse disorder, or someone who engages in criminal behavior. In 2011, a National Survey of Children’s Exposure to Violence estimated that about 58% of children and youth in the U.S. experience at least one ACE per year. Additional studies reveal a powerful relationship between adverse childhood experiences and physical and mental health in adulthood. Research shows that home visiting programs produce a beneficial spectrum of multigenerational outcomes, particularly in diminishing the occurrence of ACEs. Although MIECHV served 145,000 families in 2015, there are currently many more eligible families lacking support. Passing legislation like the ACEs Act will go a long way in helping states to improve the lives of vulnerable children and families. States like Ohio and New Mexico are trying to provide home visiting services to more families by encouraging the use of other funding streams, such as Medicaid. However, Medicaid does not pay for the full range of services provided under MIECHV, and administrative burdens make it difficult for providers to claim reimbursement. States are forced to combine MIECHV and Medicaid funds, which leaves gaps in coverage, so that not all families have access to effective services. Streamlining access to federal support, contained in the ACEs Act would minimize these inefficiencies. The legislation has been endorsed by numerous child- and health-based organizations including: the Nurse Family Partnership, Healthy Families America, the Center for American Progress, the Ounce of Prevention Fund, Zero to Three, the American Psychological Association, Mental Health America, and the Association of Maternal & Child Health Programs. “Psychological research demonstrates that early adverse experiences exert lasting negative effects on child development,” said Dr. Arthur Evans, Jr., CEO of the American Psychological Association. “Our organization supports this legislation that would expand access to Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting programs, which are known to protect young children from the long-term impact of early stress. Investment in these vital early intervention programs can be expected to decrease future healthcare and social service expenditures.” “We applaud Congressman Tim Ryan and Ben Ray Lujan for introducing the Alleviating Adverse Childhood Experiences Act. Research clearly demonstrates the effectiveness of evidence-based programs for young children and their families. It’s important to meet families where they are most comfortable. This bill will help states implement programs that support child development in homes as well as in pediatric settings. ZERO TO THREE’s HealthySteps program does just that -- providing critical services to a vulnerable population,” said Matthew E. Melmed, Executive Director, ZERO TO THREE “Voluntary, evidence-based home visiting programs, like Healthy Families America, strengthen American families and lead to self-sufficiency. These proven programs result in improved mental and physical health in families, increased educational outcomes for children and better job prospects for parents,” said Dan Duffy, President and CEO of Prevent Child Abuse America. “We are grateful that Congressman Ryan and Congressman Lujan are taking proactive steps to secure funding for these critical programs.”
07.18.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement regarding the Trump Administration’s new NAFTA renegotiation objectives, which were released yesterday. Under the 2015 Fast Track law, the administration must publish “a detailed and comprehensive summary” of its specific negotiating objectives 30 days before formally beginning trade talks. “As a member of Congress one of my principle responsibilities is to ensure the American economy is inclusive and does not leave American families behind. The Trump Administration’s newly released NAFTA renegotiation objectives are filled with vague overtures making it unclear what will be demanded on key issues, whether improvements for working people could be in the offering or whether the worst aspects of the TPP will be added making NAFTA even more damaging for the men and women of my district. This document falls far short of protecting hardworking American’s across the country. President Trump has continually looked the other way when it comes to promoting policies that protect U.S. workers, and he has not lifted a finger to deal with our national $347 billion China trade deficit. These actions are unacceptable,” said Congressman Ryan. “There is consensus that NAFTA needs to change to level the playing field for U.S. workers, but I am greatly concerned that in this important undertaking, the President, by his own objectives, is not qualified to get a deal worthy of American families.” On June 13th, 2017 Congressman Ryan joined with several House Democrats in detailing priorities for North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) renegotiations to U.S. Trade Representative Robert E. Lighthizer. In the letter, Members requested direct collaboration with the Administration, a transparent and public renegotiation process, stripping special provisions that encourage companies to offshore jobs, fully enforceable labor and environmental standards, and other critical provisions. You can read that letter here:
07.17.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan announced a $10,000 grant for the Butler Institute of American Art in Youngstown, Ohio. This grant was awarded by the National Endowment of the Arts (NEA) through their Arts Engagement in American Communities (AEAC) program. The funds will be used to support an art exhibition and associated outreach activities, and more specifically to showcase drawings and small-scale sculptures by sculptor and installation artist Alice Aycoc. The exhibition will include gallery lectures, workshops, family programming, and docent-led tours. “I am pleased to announce these funds which will benefit the greater Youngstown region. Cultural centers like the Butler Institute play a critical role not only in education, but in quality of life -- making our communities more desirable places to live and raise a family. The NEA empowers local arts centers to work on bringing arts and culture to all citizens, not just the ones who live in big cities. That is why I am pleased that the Fiscal Year 2018 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill rejected President Trump’s proposal to eliminate the NEA, and instead funds this important agency at $145 million. This grant for the Butler Institute of American Art is just one example of how essential the NEA is to communities, museums, libraries, and more across the country, ” said Congressman Tim Ryan. Arts Engagement in American Communities (AEAC) supports arts projects in all artistic disciplines, extending the National Endowment for the Arts’ reach to communities across the United States. These grants will engage the public in diverse and excellent art in geographic areas underrepresented in our grantmaking portfolio. Grants are available for professional arts programming, including the presentation of artists or artworks, marketing and promotional activities, educational programs, and organizational planning. All AEAC grants are for $10,000, and require a minimum $10,000 match (cost share) with non-federal support. Congressman Ryan sits on the House Appropriations Committee and serves as Ranking Member of the Legislative Branch Subcommittee. This week the House Appropriations Committee will markup and vote on the Fiscal Year 2018 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill, which includes funding for the Department of Interior, the National Endowment of the Arts (NEA) and the National Endowment of the Humanities (NEH) and more. The bill included funding for the NEA and NEH at $145 million each, which is $5 million less than 2017 enacted levels.
07.14.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today announced a $974,570 grant for Summit County adult and family treatment drug court programs. This grant funding comes as a part of a larger $80.8 million Department of Health and Human Services’ Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) investment which will be made over the next 3 - 5 years. “I am glad to announce this much needed funding is going to Summit County drug court programs. Millions of Americans are suffering from the disease of addiction, including countless right here in our own community. As the Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus, I have heard from many constituents and groups from around the country, and personally I have seen these tragedies play out. We must never stop creating programs that work to combat this growing crisis. And when we have a program with proven results and successes like treatment drug courts, we must redouble our efforts to support them in their work,” said Congressman Ryan. Treatment drug courts combine the power of courts with effective treatment services to reduce further criminal justice action and promote recovery for people with substance abuse disorders and co-occurring mental and substance abuse disorders. By reducing the health and social costs of substance use disorders for individuals, treatment drug courts improve public safety in communities. The purpose of this particular $80.8 million program is to expand and enhance substance use disorder treatment services in existing family treatment drug courts, which use the family treatment drug court model in order to provide alcohol and drug treatment to parents with a substance use disorder who have had a dependency petition filed against them or are at risk of such filing. Congressman Tim Ryan recently participated in a WKBN televised panel discussion along with Ohio State Highway Patrol Lt. Jeff Greene, Judge Jack Durkin — who runs the drug court in Mahoning County, and Tyler Wisser — a recovered addict who now works for the Ohio Teen Challenge, which in part focused on the importance of treatment drug court programs in combating addiction. You can see the program here.
07.14.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today after voting in favor of the FY2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The measure authorizes $621.5 billion in funding for the United States Military, Department of Defense and defense-related activities of the Department of Energy. “While this legislation was far from perfect, I was proud to vote in favor of the 2018 NDAA today. This bipartisan bill, which was passed with an overwhelming 344-81 vote, ensures that American men and women in uniform are provided with the tools they need and the benefits and support they deserve – including a much needed 2.4% pay increase for military personnel, which is above the President’s requested 2.1% figure, and extends special pay and bonuses for servicemembers. It also continues to increase our military size and create more jobs for Americans. We must have a military that is prepared for the threats and challenges our nation faces around the world, and it is the responsibility of Congress to give them every opportunity to succeed,” said Congressman Ryan. The bill included many provisions that Congressman Ryan was supportive of, including needed measures to strengthen deterrence and to boost unity against Russia’s campaign to undermine our democracy and democracies worldwide. There were also necessary measures within the legislation to address military readiness gaps, and to require further strategies from President Trump and the Department of Defense on Russia, Syria, Afghanistan, and other hot spots around the world. Importantly, language was also written in to acknowledge and to plan for the real threat that climate change poses to national security, something that has been brought up at the very highest levels of our armed forces. Finally, Congressman Ryan was pleased to see the final NDAA had been brought up without the unacceptable Hartzler amendment, which would have banned federal funds from being used to provide necessary healthcare for transgender servicemembers and dependent family members. “It is reassuring to see Congress come together in a bipartisan fashion to defeat this hateful and discriminatory proposal which would hurt currently serving military members and their families,” said Congressman Ryan.
07.14.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to the Full Committee Markup of Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies (CJS) Appropriations Bill. Ryan voted against this bill because it severely underfunded critical non-defense programs like the National Science Foundation, Legal Services Fund, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Climate Research, Office of Juvenile Justice, and NASA Aeronautics. Although Congressman Ryan voted against the overall bill, he was able to secure an additional $15 million to combat the opioid epidemic. This funding directly supports the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Program (COAP), a grant program authorized through the Comprehensive Addiction Recovery Act (CARA). Increased funding for COAP would allow the Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) to provide more opportunities for grant recipients to help combat the opioid epidemic by: Strengthening opioid misuse prevention efforts Improving collaboration between law enforcement and regulatory agencies through the collection and analysis of relevant data in centralized databases Improving emergency response to drug overdose cases Providing financial and technical assistance to state, local, and tribal governments as they develop diversion programs and alternatives to incarceration Expanding outreach, treatment, and recovery efforts, and supports continuing evaluations of substance use treatment programs “The scale of the ongoing opioid addiction crisis is staggering. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, more Americans die every day from drug overdoses than from car accidents – an average of 144 people per day. The majority of those who need help with addiction issues are not receiving it. These men and women are more than a statistic, they are members of our community, and they need our help. That is why I fought so hard for this additional funding, which is an important step in the right direction to combat this growing crisis,” says Congressman Ryan, a member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Address the Heroin Epidemic, Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus, and lead Democratic sponsor of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act. “This funding is just another plank in what must be a continued, massive investment in combating addiction. There’s no getting around the fact that our communities need more federal help to provide the treatment, prevention and recovery services that are necessary to help those suffering from this disease.” Congressman Ryan also secured the inclusion of report language that directs the Department of Justice (DoJ) to study whether immersive, real-life scenario-based training improves law enforcement officer performance, increases police safety, and reduces use of force incidents, deadly force, and citizen complaints. DoJ would have to report to the committee within 180 days. The Department is further encouraged to use this study to devise a curriculum for training, and develop a pilot program for making it available for federal, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement agencies. "Policing in the 21st century is a physically and mentally stressful job. One with the capacity to take a toll on officers, and their relationships with the communities they serve. In tense situations that officers face every day, effective training could mean the difference between desirable and undesirable outcomes. These immersive training facilities have been impactful for our men and women in military uniform, and should be explored for law enforcement as well. I am confident that this type of hands-on training will help our officers react quickly and appropriately while making decisions that are best for the community, while protecting their own safety at the same time. Better training equals better outcomes, it is that simple,” said Congressman Ryan. The Fiscal Year 2018 Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies (CJS) Appropriations bill passed the House Appropriations Committee by a vote of 31 to 21. Ryan voted against the legislation.
07.13.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today praised the introduction of the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Education Assistance Act, of which he is an original co-sponsor. This legislation, also known as the “Forever GI Bill” provides comprehensive improvements to the GI Bill benefits for our Veterans and servicemembers. “I am proud to support this bipartisan bill, which is designed to honor America’s commitment to our military past and present. I am pleased this bill was developed by working closely with Veterans Service Organizations, and being able to build a bill that truly meets the needs of our Veterans. I appreciate the hard work of Chairman Rep. Phil Roe, MD (R-TN) and Ranking Member Rep. Tim Waltz (D-MN) and leadership in drafting this bipartisan bill,” said Congressman Ryan. “I am also pleased that this legislation includes language that incorporates a VA Comparison Tool, which will let Veterans have clear answers on which schools now offer veteran’s priority registration. We should be doing everything in our power to make it easier for our men and women in uniform to get a stress free, quality education, and I am glad this bill takes a good step forward in this direction.” This bill also: ---Improves benefits for Servicemembers and Veterans by o establishing a pilot program to provide coding and IT bootcamps, as well as other high technology accelerated learning programs, to Veterans. o Restoring and protecting GI Bill benefits for veterans when a school closes in the middle of a semester, which impacted many Ohio Veterans when ITT Tech unexpectedly closed mid-semester. o Making it easier and cheaper for Veterans to use their GI bill to take national tests or tests that lead to a license or credential. ---Provides an additional 9 months of GI Bill eligibility for veterans working for STEM degrees. This will benefit more than 3,300 Veterans per year and help our nation increase expertise in these critical fields. ---Supports tens of thousands of National Guard and Reservists by: o Removing arbitrary distinctions in GI Bill eligibility based on different administrative codes in National Guard orders. o Increasing eligibility for those with less than 36-months of active duty time. ---Honors our commitment to those who gave the most: o Provides full Post 9/11 GI Bill eligibility to all Purple Heart recipients. oExtends Yellow Ribbon Program eligibility to Purple Heart recipients and survivor dependents (spouses and children) receiving benefits under the Fry Scholarship. o Establishes the first increase in decades to benefits for survivor and 100% disabled Veteran dependents using the Dependent Education Benefit. This will positively impact 100,000 Americans. ---Simplifies the system and reduces administrative costs by: o Providing the same GI Bill benefits to all our Veterans and servicemembers regardless of if they served pre- or post- 9/11. Our Vietnam and Cold War era Veterans earned our highest degree of respect and care in the same manner as our Post 9/11 Veterans. o Improving the VA’s IT infrastructure and admin processes to provide quicker and more accurate claim support. Congressman Ryan has introduced the Veterans Priority Enrollment Act of 2017 (HR 1793), which requires that any university, community college or other educational institutions that offer priority enrollment, similar to those available to student athletes, must also make it available to our veterans and servicemembers. The Forever GI Bill includes similar language that will help increase access to priority registration for Veteran’s unique schedule needs.
07.13.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement regarding the Hartzler amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which would deny necessary healthcare coverage to transgender servicemembers, effectively banning these brave men and women from serving our country. “This amendment, which would ban federal funds from being used to provide necessary healthcare for transgender servicemembers, is an act of cruel targeting that is beneath the dignity of the United States Congress, and in stark contrast to the respect that transgender servicemembers who have stood up to protect our nation deserve. The arguments being made to discriminate against transgender servicemembers are the exact same as those faced by women, African-Americans, and any other minority groups before they were able to serve in our military. This must stop. Time and time again we have proven that our nation is defended by Americans whose strength of character is significantly more important than any race, religion, gender or creed,” said Congressman Ryan. “If an American offers to make a sacrifice for the United States, a sacrifice that could unfortunately include their own life, they have more than earned their healthcare coverage. As a member of the Defense and Military Construction and Veteran Affairs Subcommittees of Appropriations, I will never stop fighting to make sure all of our servicemembers receive the support and benefits they deserve.”
07.13.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to the Senate GOP’s release of their “new” Trumpcare Bill. “All it took was an amendment by Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) throwing people with pre-existing conditions under the bus and a pitifully small amount of additional funding for opioid addiction, and just like that, Senate Republicans were somehow able to make their disaster of a healthcare bill even worse. They can tinker around the edges all they want, but it won’t change the fact that Trumpcare is nothing more than a massive tax cut for the wealthiest among us, financed on the backs of the elderly, people with preexisting conditions, and the poor. Any genuine attempt to improve our healthcare system should be about two things – how do we reduce costs and expand coverage? Trumpcare achieves the exact opposite results. It increases costs for most Americans and decreases the number of people insured. This is not what the American people signed up for. I am particularly dismayed at their disingenuous inclusion of $45 billion to fight opioid addiction. This money should normally be a welcomed lifeline to communities in desperate need of Federal assistance if it weren’t for the fact that this bill guts Medicaid, the single largest provider of addiction treatment and recovery services, by $772 billion,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “This legislation remains a cruel betrayal of the American people. Any Senator with their constituents’ best interests at heart should reject this bill, and work with Democrats in a bipartisan manner to expand access to quality, affordable healthcare.”
07.11.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement after reports that Donald Trump Jr., Jared Kushner, and Paul Manafort met with a Kremlin-connected Russian lawyer they believed would provide compromising information about Hillary Clinton, after having been informed that the material was part of a Russian government effort to influence the election. "With every day that passes, and with every new revelation, it seems the story about Russia coming from this Administration changes. We need the truth. And every day we don't get the truth is one more day the Administration is going back on its promise to create jobs for our people, end the opioid epidemic, increase access to affordable health care, and put money back into the pockets of American families. The American people are still waiting for things to get better for them, and Donald Trump is failing to deliver."
07.06.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to the United States Department of Defense announced delay for transgender Americans enlistment in the U.S. military. “I am deeply disappointed by the Trump Administration’s decision to delay implementing the planned policy to allow transgender Americans to join the United States military. As we face growing threats in North Korea, ISIS and other actors around the world, it is more imperative than ever that we are recruiting the best and brightest Americans to defend our nation. Yet the Trump Administration’s blatantly political and discriminatory decision arbitrarily reduces our pool of applicants. This is a non-issue being made into an issue to score cheap political points rather than address legitimate national security concerns. “There are already thousands of transgender servicemembers proudly serving openly in our military today; more than 134,000 of our retired Veterans are transgender. Since President Obama repealed the antiquated and discriminatory requirement for these patriots to serve in silence, we have only seen positive impacts on the strength of our Armed Forces and their readiness to protect our country. As a member of the Defense Appropriations Committee, I know we can do this. I know we are doing this. I know we must do this.”
06.29.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to the Appropriations Committee Passing the FY 18 Legislative Branch Bill: “It takes over 10,000 employees to make the House of Representatives run smoothly every day – from the Capitol Police who ensure the safety of students on school trips, to the men and women who keep the cafeterias running, to the Member of Congress and Congressional staff. I am proud to serve as the Ranking Member on the Legislative Branch Subcommittee on Appropriations, which is tasked to ensure that Congress is operating as efficiently and effectively as possible in the service of our citizens. I am pleased that the Appropriations Committee passed this funding bill, which while not perfect, will provide the resources necessary to keep these important branch of government running smoothly. I am also proud that in light of the recent, tragic shooting at a Congressional baseball game practice, this bill includes an increase for Congressional security.” The FY 2018 Legislative Branch Appropriations Bill contains several important provisions and funding measures. Highlights below: Fiscal Year 2018 Legislative Branch Appropriations bill provides $3.58 billion for the Legislative Branch of the Federal government, excluding the Senate. The bill provides $1.194 billion for the House of Representatives, which is the same level as fiscal year 2017 plus $5 million extra given to the Sergeant at Arms for the security of Members, staff, and visitors to our offices in light of the recent, tragic shooting at a Congressional baseball game practice. The bill also provides $347.7 million for the Capitol Police, a $29.2 million increase, which includes $7.5 million for overtime, equipment and training requested in the wake of the shooting, as well as the funding the Police asked for to bring on more civilians and the maximum number of new sworn officers next year. The goal is to give them the resources they need to maintain security on the Capitol campus and also increase their coverage of Members and gatherings of Members that might be targeted. The Architect of the Capitol receives $577.8 million, a 9.1% increase over last year. At that funding level AOC will be able to complete many of the important projects we know are necessary to maintain the buildings belonging to the Congress, the Library, the Police, and the Botanic Garden, and catch up on some of the deferred maintenance. The Library of Congress and its sub-agencies -- the Congressional Research Service and the Copyright Office -- are given sorely needed increases for IT modernization. The bill provides $648 million -- a $16.1 million increase compared to last year. The Government Publishing Office, Open World, and the Stennis Center all receive the same level of funding as last year. Funding for the Government Accountability Office (GAO) is at just about the same funding level as last year, but because of cost increases GAO will end up with over 200 fewer staff at the end of the year. GAO is charged with conducting investigations and audits on behalf of Congress, and rooting out waste, fraud and abuse. With an Administration refusing to comply with basic oversight requests, we need a functionating GAO more than ever.
06.29.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement on the Appropriations Committee Approval of the Fiscal Year 2018 Defense Bill. “I take my role on the Appropriations Committee and Defense Subcommittee very seriously. I am honored to use my positon to continue to ensure that our military has the resources it needs to defend our nation. Our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Marines are the best in the world and I am committed they will remain supported by the best equipment and training in the world.” said Congressman Ryan. Important highlights of the bill includes: A 2.4% pay increase for servicemembers, which is designed to keep military pay on pace with anticipated civilian sector wage growth. This is higher than the president’s budget recommendation of 2.1% which would have disadvantaged our armed forces. I am proud entering this Independence Day weekend to be on a Congressional committee that prioritizes the servicemembers who give us the privilege of freedom. Equalizing the military pay raise with anticipated civilian sector wage growth prevents honors the fact our servicemembers are the lynchpin of our military might. It keeps our defense strong by allowing us to recruit and retain the highest quality servicemembers. We must continue to communicate to our servicemembers that we realize equipment without warfighters is meaningless. $10M of funding for additive manufacturing training. Youngstown’s America Makes has revolutionized our Defense readiness through 3D printing and other additive manufacturing initiatives. This investment will continue to strengthen Department of Defense's additive manufacturing capabilities in keeping our equipment working and our troops safe. Almost $1B in counterdrug funding including $201M in funding for National Guard opioid experts. In Ohio, the National Guard partners with law enforcement to fight the opioid crisis that is ravaging our state. Funding counterdrug work strengthens our national security and directly supports Ohio efforts to defeat this epidemic. Fully funds the European Reassurance Initiative. Ohio National Guard is doing great work in this mission and our continued full funding support will honor their commitment to our national security. Our strength in balancing Russian aggression and strengthening our NATO alliances is critical. Continues to refuse funds for another Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC). The administration failed to present a clear and cognizant plan to avoid cost overruns and savings shortages that occurred during the disastrous 2005 BRAC. GAO found the 2005 BRAC cost the government $35.1B and had a 67% overgrowth from initial cost estimates. The net value for the anticipated 20 years of savings decreased by more than 72%. 41% of the 2005 BRAC recommendations cost the government more money than it will save. Until a solid plan is presented to avoid repeating this waste, I refuse to strip money from the Department of Defense to pay for a BRAC while our servicemembers are fighting simultaneous conflicts throughout the globe. Funds key health research needs for our servicemembers including: Research into hypoxia prevention in the F-35s $120M in peer-reviewed breast cancer research $90M in peer-reviewed prostate cancer research $20M in peer-reviewed ovarian cancer research $5M in funding for service dogs for wounded warriors Funds non-opiate pain management initiatives Language to support PTSD research Fund critical defense needs including: Aircraft Carrier replacements and three submarines. These national security assets are powered through the innovation of Ohioans at BWXT Upgrades to the M1A2 Abrams and Stryker Vehicles which are spearheaded by Ohioans The House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense (HAC-D) controls approximately $523 billion in discretionary spending for the following departments and agencies: Department of the Army, Department of the Navy (including Marine Corps), Department of the Air Force, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the Central Intelligence Agency, and the Office of the Secretary of Defense. This spending supports military personnel, operation and maintenance, procurement, research and development, and military health systems.
06.29.2017	Vienna, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan today announced almost $40,000 in federal funds for two local fire departments. The Vienna Fire Department has received $13,169 and the Braceville Township Fire Department has received $23,334 from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. “Supporting our first responders through federal investment plays a crucial role in protecting the lives of our family, friends, and community. I will always give my support to these types of grants which play a direct role in keeping people safe – both the first responder, and those in need," said Congressman Ryan. “This money will enhance fire and emergency services and provide needed safety equipment to both departments.” “These resources are vital to our department to help keep our first responders, and the people they serve safe. We are appreciative of this assistance and look forward to continuing our work,” said Vienna Fire Department Chief Richard Brannon. The goal of the AFG program is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and emergency medical service organizations. Operations and Safety grants can be used for professional training, wellness and fitness programs equipment, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critical equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. For more information, visit the program’s website.
06.26.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) report that the Senate GOP healthcare bill would cause 22 million more Americans to lose healthcare. “Yet another damning non-partisan CBO report proves that Trumpcare will rip healthcare away from at least 22 million Americans, and send premiums skyrocketing for everyone else. After all of President Trump’s talk about wanting a ‘bill with heart,’ he, along with Republicans in Congress, have opted to throw the elderly, sick, and poor under the bus in order to finance massive tax cuts for the wealthiest among us. Voters in my state did not cast their ballots to inflict this harm on millions of their fellow neighbors. These are real people: mothers and fathers, sons and daughters. At some point they will get sick – and this legislation will make it harder and more expensive to receive the care they need to get better. A Harvard study found that this legislation will result in 18,000 additional deaths over the next ten years. President Trump and Congressional Republicans should be ashamed of themselves. The number one priority for any national healthcare policy should be how to cover more people and how to improve the coverage they receive. Trumpcare does neither and is moving us in the wrong direction.
06.23.2017	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan today announces $418,500 in federal funding for the Youngstown-Warren Regional Airport. These entitlement funds were provided by the United States Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration to improve airport drainage and rehabilitate runway and lighting. “I want to congratulate the Youngstown-Warren Regional Airport and the Western Reserve Port Authority on receiving this important funding. This is a critical investment in both our airport and community. The Valley gets stronger each and every day and I couldn’t be prouder to represent this region. I will continue to work day in and day out to bring these federal funds back home,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. "The Western Reserve Port Authority is excited to receive this Grant through the FAA Airport Improvement Program to be used at the Youngstown-Warren Regional Airport. The Entitlement Funding will address drainage issues on the airfield by studying the current drainage system that will provide solutions to be conducted in future projects. The funds will also be used to complete the design of much needed airfield lighting upgrades to LED, including the replacement of existing taxiway and runway edge lighting, all signage along runway 5 – 23 and runway 14 – 32 and upgrades to the electrical vault in order to power the runway lighting and signage in a more efficient manner,” said Dan Dickten, Director of Aviation at Youngstown-Warren Regional Airport. This grant will provide federal funding for the Youngstown-Warren Regional Airport in Ohio: This project will fund the design phase of a full rehabilitation of the current Runway 5/23 lighting system that has reached the end of its useful life and requires rehabilitation to enhance safe airfield operations during low visibility conditions. This project will fund the design phase of a full rehabilitation of the current Taxiway C, G, and H lighting systems that have reached the end of their useful lives and require rehabilitation to enhance safe airfield operations during low visibility conditions. This project will fund the design phase of a full rehabilitation of the current Taxiway F and T lighting systems that have reached the end of their useful lives and require rehabilitation to enhance safe airfield operations during low visibility conditions. This project will fund the study of 50,000 feet of drainage improvements necessary to adequately handle stormwater runoff.
06.23.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan, Ranking Member on the House Legislative Branch Appropriations Subcommittee, today supported the passage of the Fiscal Year 2018 Legislative Branch Appropriations bill that passed out of Subcommittee and now goes to the Full Appropriations Committee for consideration. This bill provides $3.58 billion for the Legislative Branch of the Federal government, including the U.S. House of Representatives, Library of Congress, Architect of Capitol and more, but excluding the Senate. This bill also includes additional funding to bolster Congressional security for the Capitol Police and Sergeant at Arms in the wake of last week’s shooting in Alexandria, Virginia. “I was sickened to hear news of the shooting last week at the Republican practice for the Congressional Baseball Game. My thoughts and prayers remain with Congressman Steve Scalise, the Capitol Police Officers, the congressional staffer, and lobbyist who were injured and continue to recover. In the wake of this horrific event, I will do everything in my power to ensure the continued safety and security of Members, their families, congressional staff, and those visiting the Capitol complex. It is the responsibility of the House as an institution to protect us all, and this Subcommittee needs to make sure the resources are there to keep everyone safe. I am pleased that this year’s appropriation has, in a bipartisan way with Chairman Yoder, begun to address recent security concerns,” said Congressman Ryan. The total recommended funding level for the Capitol Police (USCP) is $422.5 million, a $29.2 million (7.42%) increase above FY 2017. This would allow USCP to hire 72 new officers, and hire 48 more civilians. In addition to the budget request, USCP produced a list of $7.5 million in personnel, training, equipment, and other expenses they could incur to increase Member security. The total recommended funding level for the House Sergeant at Arms (SAA) is $20.5 million, a $5 million (32.3%) increase over FY 2017. Part of this funding will be used to help increase security in district offices through duress alarms and video intercom security systems. This bill also includes significant increases for cyber-security, an expansion of the Wounded Warrior program, language to study expanding the United States Botanic Garden urban agriculture outreach and education programs, and directs the House’s Chief Administrative Officer to produce a plan for a comprehensive House wellness program that includes stress management, nutrition, physical activity and overall general good health.
06.22.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to Senate Republicans releasing their healthcare bill. “Senate Republican’s have finally released their healthcare plan, and it looks a lot like the House’s ruinous version. This bill will have devastating consequences for hard working families, the elderly, and the sick. It is an absolute betrayal of everything we stand for as Americans. Senate Republicans’ message to the American people? Tax cuts for the wealthiest among us take precedent over your affordable care. They took a House bill that that didn’t reduce the cost of premiums, that didn’t expand health coverage for all, that didn’t protect people with pre-existing conditions and that nobody liked, and nobody wanted, and doubled down on it. “Just this week, Montgomery County, Ohio became the drug overdose capital of America, with drug overdoses becoming the leading cause of death around the country, Republicans are touting a bill that will slash Medicaid, decrease access to substance abuse treatment, and make the opioid crisis worse. Senate Republicans should be ashamed. Not only for the destruction this legislation would unleash, but for the cravenly secretive and undemocratic way they went about writing it,” said Congressman Ryan.
06.21.2017	Ravenna, OH -- Congressman Tim Ryan today announced that Neighborhood Development Services has received $440,667 in flexible grants from NeighborWorks America. The grant funding will provide a much-needed boost that will support NDS’s affordable housing and community development activities. NDS intends to utilize the funds to support their newest affordable housing project, the Wilds at Harvest Rose. This project will provide 45 new housing units for senior citizens, featuring rounded yurt inspired designs. Community development activities to be undertaken include the development of Kave Coffee Bar’s rooftop patio in Barberton, and the Ravenna Movie Theater in Ravenna, Ohio. "I applaud the Neighborhood Development Service and Dave Vaughan for continuing to provide quality affordable housing here in Northeast Ohio. I am proud have been able to lend a hand in these efforts and will continue to do everything in my power to ensure that those in our community can live the American Dream,” said Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13). “Working with Congressman Ryan has been a special honor for NDS as his hard work and effectiveness continues to have a major impact on northeast Ohio. His drive to deliver housing, jobs, economic expansion and quality community development has garnered massive resources for his communities. NDS is proud to be part of that effort," said Dave Vaughan, Executive Director of NDS. NDS is one of 243 NeighborWorks members who received funding. NeighborWorks is a congressionally chartered, national nonpartisan nonprofit that provides access to affordable housing and other community building services. About Neighborhood Development Services Neighborhood Development Services (NDS) serves Portage and other northeastern communities in Ohio. The mission of NDS, a NeighborWorks® organization, is to revitalize neighborhoods and communities, primarily for the benefit of low and moderate income-income households, through the provision and /or promotion of affordable housing, environmental sustainability, community and economic development, job-creation, and multi-discipline art as a community development catalyst. NDS’ programs include multi-family rental development, home repair programs, homebuyer education, down payment assistance, a daycare center, development of housing for elderly and for handicapped. For more information, visit www.ndsohio.org
06.20.2017	Washington, DC – Representative Tim Ryan (D-OH), was joined by Representatives Mark Pocan (D-WI), and Jim McGovern (D-MA) today to introduce the Nutrition Coordinators for Local Healthy Youth Act. This bill would allow qualified professionals to lead nutrition education and promotion efforts by giving districts the ability to appoint a nutrition coordinator to oversee their Team Nutrition (TN) and local wellness programs. These positions will be funded through grants given out by the US Department of Agriculture by amending the Child Nutrition Act. These programs include using innovative lunchroom strategies such as family style eating to encourage healthy decision making, developing school meal patterns that meet USDA nutrition requirements, delivering hands-on nutrition education lessons that are aligned across grade levels, and providing schools and child care providers the technical assistance they need to develop health centered environments. “There’s no greater investment we can make than an investment in our children’s education, but we must make sure that we’re getting the most out of it. If our kids aren’t healthy and lack the basic nutrition necessary to be effective learners, no amount of money will result in success. If meaningful nutrition education is paired with access to healthy foods, we will maximize our country’s investments and have a shot to develop a generation of healthy eaters and successful learners,” said Congressman Ryan. “When 20 percent of school aged children are obese and our country is losing over $250 billion annually in diabetes related costs, it is imperative that we make improving student health and wellness a top education priority.” “Healthy school meals are just as essential as textbooks to help children learn and succeed. And for some students, school meals are the only healthy meals they eat all day,” Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) said. “This bill will build on the success of school meals by increasing nutrition education and encouraging students to develop the healthy eating habits that will help them succeed in school and for years to come. I am proud to join this bill with Congressman Tim Ryan and urge all of our colleagues to join us in investing in the health of our students.” “This bill is an opportunity for school districts to hire a nutrition coordinator who will build on the work of wellness committees and school nutrition directors to improve healthy school environments. As a school nutrition director myself, I know that employing a school nutrition coordinator would help many districts create more opportunities for children to learn about the healthy food that is being served in cafeterias and to promote physical activity during and outside of school. This bill supports the development of children’s lifelong healthy behaviors that will improve educational attainment and decrease diet-related chronic disease,” said President of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics Donna S. Martin, EdS, RDN, LD, SNS, FAND. "FoodCorps service members are in schools helping students get excited about healthy food and where it comes from. We've seen that the presence of dedicated staff in a school can have a profound impact on healthy eating; students who get more of our hands-on learning like cooking and gardening lessons eat triple the amounts of fruits and vegetables at meal time. This legislation would help more schools have that hands-on learning that directly impacts how much healthy food kids will eat," said Kumar Chandran, Policy Director, FoodCorps. "The National Farm to School Network welcomes Representative Ryan's introduction of the Nutrition Coordinators for Local Healthy Youth Act, which will establish Nutrition Educators in school districts across the country. Nutrition education is one of the three core elements of farm to school, and a proven approach to ensuring that children learn about where their food comes from and build lifelong healthy eating habits. This bill expands school capacity to successfully integrate experiential nutrition education into the curriculum. We look forward to working with these Nutrition Educators to grow a generation of healthy and informed eaters," said Maximilian Merrill, Esq., Policy Director, National Farm to School Network. This legislation is endorsed by: The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, Vetri Community Partnerships, Laurie M. Tisch Center for Food, Education & Policy, Teachers College Columbia University, Food Corps, American Heart Association, SHAPE America, The Food Trust, and the Farm to School Network.
06.15.2017	Youngstown, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan today announced a $1 million Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) grant to Youngstown State University (YSU) in Youngstown, Ohio, for the Excellence Training Center project. This grant will allow YSU to renovate a facility to house the Excellence Training Center, which will be an advanced manufacturing education and workforce training facility that will benefit a 14-county, three-state region across Ohio, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia. The center will be a shared-use facility assessable 24/7 with a manufacturing training lab and group project and workroom space supporting displaced workers, students, manufacturers, and entrepreneurs. The center will help address regional employment problems caused by the transitioning economy by providing requisite hands-on training for high-demand advanced manufacturing skills, creating a pipeline of trained workers. It is expected the project will train 200 workers and create or retain 188 jobs. State funding will be matching the ARC grant for a total project investment of $2.1 million. This project is part of a total package of $15.7 Million for 18 projects in seven states. “I am thrilled to see this crucial investment being made here at Youngstown State. This important injection of capital will have a lasting impact not only in the Valley and the 14 county region that is served, but nationally as this center of excellence is used as a tool to chart a path forward for students in the new American economy. The skills that will be cultivated in this Excellence Training Center will have immediate impact in students’ lives,” said Congressman Ryan. “I’ve said many times, the importance of the investments made by the ARC cannot be understated and I am personally offended that President Trump is seeking to would eliminate this important program. As long as I am a member of Congress, I will fight against proposed cuts from the Administration to make sure it is empowered to continue engaging in life-saving development work like this across Appalachia, a region in desperate need of help." “Youngstown State University’s Excellence Training Center will bring a broad spectrum of advanced manufacturing career development resources to the Mahoning Valley. Along with our partners from Mahoning Valley Manufacturers Coalition, Eastern Gateway Community College, Youngstown Business Incubator, and Youngstown City and Mahoning, Trumbull, and Columbiana Career and Technical Centers, we look forward to providing advanced manufacturing education, training, and workforce development for the region,” said Jim Tressel, President of Youngstown State University. “Each one of these awards is a blueprint for new jobs, fresh opportunities, and a robust economic future for Ohio.” said ARC Federal Co-Chairman Earl F. Gohl. “Together, these investments bring added capital into the Region, and help Appalachia prepare to globally compete in manufacturing, technology, construction, and a variety of other industry sectors.” Regional partners for the project include: Eastern Gateway Community College, Mahoning Valley Manufacturers Coalition, Youngstown Business Incubator, the Southwestern Pennsylvania Commission, and regional workforce development boards.
06.14.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan this morning released the following statement in response to the shooting this morning at the Congressional Republican baseball practice: “I was sickened to hear news of the shooting this morning at the Republican practice for the Congressional Baseball game. My thoughts and prayers are with Congressman Steve Scalise and the Capitol Police Officers and congressional staffer who were injured by this morning’s senseless act of violence. I’m especially grateful to the U.S. Capitol Police and Alexandria Virginia Police Department who by all accounts acted as heroes and prevented this incident from turning even worse. Today’s incident was appalling to all who believe in our democratic values. I wish all those impacted a speedy recovery,” said Congressman Ryan.
06.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) this week joined several House Democrats in detailing priorities for North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) renegotiations to U.S. Trade Representative Robert E. Lighthizer. In the letter, Members requested direct collaboration with the Administration, a transparent and public renegotiation process, stripping special provisions that encourage companies to offshore jobs, fully enforceable labor and environmental standards, and other critical provisions. “During the 2016 campaign, President Trump made numerous promises to stop NAFTA’s ongoing damage to America’s workforce, and to create jobs and increase wages among middle class and working families,” wrote the Members. “Given the President’s promises, it is critical to change both NAFTA’s policies and the process by which NAFTA is renegotiated. Marginal adjustments around the edges of the Agreement will not suffice.” “Among our chief responsibilities as lawmakers is to ensure the American economy is inclusive and does not leave American families behind,” continued the Members. “We invite you to work closely with Members of Congress throughout the negotiation process and to consult our offices often. We look forward to working with you to deliver an agreement that delivers results and opportunity for the American people.” Specifically, the Members are requesting: An open and transparent negotiation process Eliminating special industry privileges and incentives to offshore jobs Ending the Investor-State Dispute Settlement (ISDS) mechanism Eliminating rules that require waiving ‘Buy American’ and buy local procurement preferences A clear path to close the U.S. trade deficits New rules that benefit farmers and not agribusiness trading and processing firms Imported products and foreign service providers meet U.S. safety standards That renegotiations not be used to expand corporate monopolies on intellectual property for drugs Strict, enforceable disciplines to fight against currency manipulation High, fully enforceable, labor and environmental standards The letter was signed by U.S. Representatives Tim Ryan (OH-13), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Peter A. DeFazio (OR-04), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Daniel Lipinski (IL-03), Richard M. Nolan (MN-08), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03), and Paul Tonko (NY-20). The full letter is available here.
06.08.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today released the following statement following former FBI Director James Comey’s public testimony before the Senate Intelligence Committee. “As the nation was transfixed by Director Comey’s testimony, I could not help but feel an overwhelming sense of sadness for the state of affairs that our current President has put us in. We know beyond a shadow of a doubt that Russia interfered in our election and that former and current senior officials in the President’s own administration are under investigation. Now, thanks to the testimony of James Comey, we’ve seen the lengths that President Trump went to interfere in that ongoing investigation. It is painfully clear that when Director Comey signaled that he would not put loyalty to Donald Trump above his commitment to the pursuit of truth, he paid for it with his job. While many shocking and unnerving details came to light during this hearing, the fundamental truth remains: President Trump and his team have put extraordinary effort into downplaying, ignoring, and flat out derailing an investigation into an attack from a hostile foreign adversary against our very democracy. In the Trump White House, Donald Trump comes first, draining the swamp comes last ,” said Congressman Ryan.
06.07.2017	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Tim Ryan (D-13th OH), Peter King (R-2nd NY) and Jan Schakowsky (D-9th IL) introduced the Helping Overcome Trauma for Children Alone in Rear Seats Act (HOT CARS Act of 2017), a critical piece of legislation that would prevent children from being needlessly killed and injured when unknowingly left alone in vehicles. The bi-partisan effort has already received widespread support from more than twenty of the nation’s leading public health, consumer and safety organizations, as well as an expert in neuroscience and the brain memory system, along with families who have lost their child or were seriously injured due to child vehicular heatstroke. The timing of the bill’s introduction coincides with the kickoff of the National Vehicular Heatstroke Prevention Campaign by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). “No child should endure the tragedy of dying while trapped in a hot vehicle. The unfortunate reality is that even good, loving and attentive parents can get distracted. Studies have shown that this can happen to anyone, anywhere. That is why I am proud to have Representatives King and Schakowsky join me in introducing this important legislation. Our cars can already alert drivers when they leave their keys in the car, their lights on, or their trunk open – none of which are life threatening. It is not unusual for the government to mandate safety features to protect lives. Cars are mandated to have seat belts, interior trunk-releases, and rear backup cameras. Our legislation would move us one step closer to getting this inexpensive technology in every car on the road to help save the lives of children nationwide,” said Congressman Tim Ryan (D-13th OH). The HOT CARS Act would require the U.S. Department of Transportation to issue a final rule requiring cars to be equipped with a system to alert the drive if a passenger remains in the back seat when a car is turned off. “Since 1990, nearly 800 children have died from heatstroke in vehicles,” said Rep. Schakowsky (D-9th IL). “My colleagues Rep. Tim Ryan, Rep. Peter King and I are introducing the HOT CARS Act today in hopes of bringing that number down to zero. Even the most attentive parent can get distracted and forget a child in the back seat of their car. To prevent these tragedies, our bill would require all new vehicles to be equipped with an alert system to remind the driver to check the back seat. A simple alert can save lives.” “The belief is that it can’t happen to you, always someone else. Unfortunately it happens over and over again, even to the most conscientious parents. Technology is available and it can be placed in new vehicles to protect innocent children. It’s really that simple. I am proud to work with Reps. Ryan and Schakowsky on this legislation,” said Rep. King (R-2nd NY). “We commend Congressman Tim Ryan, Ranking Member Jan Schakowsky, and Congressman Pete King for their leadership on this very important safety issue. GM is committed to protecting the safety of children in and around our vehicles and has already deployed an industry-first Rear Seat Reminder on many of our 2017 and 2018 models. The Rear Seat Reminder is a simple feature that is intended to do exactly what it says: remind the driver to look in the rear seat before exiting the vehicle, said Dan Turton, vice president of GM North America Public Policy. Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety president Jackie Gillan stated, “Already this year nine children have died in hot cars, and the scorching summer days of high temperatures are still ahead of us. Yet, I want to be very clear that this is not just a ‘seasonal’ problem. These deaths are happening year round. The HOT CARS Act takes the same approach as the law enacted by Congress in 2008 that requires rear view cameras as standard equipment in all cars by May of 2018. This is a very reasonable and effective way to stop preventable, unnecessary injuries and deaths.” Miles Harrison, whose 21-month old son Chase died after being unknowingly left in a car, said, “Every time we hear of another child dying, we re-live that horrible day with them all over again and we ask WHY? Why does this keep happening when there is technology available to prevent it?” He continued, “We need to make sure that Congress mandates a vehicle alarm system to save the lives of our children and eliminate the crushing pain this causes their parents.” Since 1990, more than 800 children have died in hot cars. Janette Fennell, president and founder of KidsAndCars.org, said, “Children will continue to die in hot cars unless something is done to help our exhausted and overtaxed brains. Education alone will not solve this problem. These unthinkable tragedies can only be prevented with the combination of education and technology. We certainly wish that we could train our memories to ‘never forget,’ but this is a very human condition we all live with.” Deona Bien’s heartbreaking words spoke directly to many as she said, “No one could ever understand what the parents who have lost children due to heatstroke in a vehicle live through every single day. We now unite as grieving parents to ask for a long overdue alert system in cars so that they can prevent these tragedies from happening to more families. We all long for the day that no other children join ours in heaven.” In the majority of cases, it is loving and caring parents who unknowingly leave their child in the car. Common stressors like a change in routine or lack of sleep or even simple distractions can all have an effect on even the most responsible parents. Dr. David Diamond, a professor in the Departments of Psychology, Molecular Pharmacology and Physiology at the University of South Florida, said, “The one aspect which is not a factor is that these children were not forgotten by parents who were reckless with regard to care for their children. This modern day phenomenon must be explained from a brain science perspective, not one that blames parents for being negligent.” He continued, “We must have a system that provides a reminder to parents of the presence of a child in the backseat for that rare occasion when a child’s life is in danger because parents, through no fault of their own, lose awareness of the presence of their child in the car.” Norman Collins, grandfather to “Bishop” Collins who died in a hot car in 2011, said, “I call upon our lawmaking government officials to assist in the effort by supporting and passing the HOT CARS Act to save lives and avoid any more families having to endure the lifelong horror of grief that ours and so many other families have encountered due to the preventable tragedies of hot car deaths. Please help us to turn our pain into power, our tragedy into triumph, and our agony into positive action.” A video recording of the press conference and additional materials can be found at saferoads.org
06.07.2017	Washington, DC – Today, on the day President Donald Trump visits Ohio, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) joined Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11), and Congresswoman Joyce Beatty (OH-03) in a letter to President Trump to urge this Administration to put the American people first, and act on big, broad policies that invest in America’s infrastructure and economy. Key excerpts from the letter: “For too long, our nation’s infrastructure needs have been neglected. We welcome your push to correct this situation. However, we believe a wide view in interpreting what entails infrastructure will yield the best results to restore America’s greatness. Investments in foundational assets, such as drinking water systems, the national electric grid, or efficiency in individual homes, along with roads, our seaports and waterways, bridges, and rail investments, will pay dividends for generations to come. The letter concludes by stating: “Perhaps no opportunity better presents a chance to revitalize the domestic steel industry than an expansive infrastructure initiative. We must view an infrastructure bill as investments to ensure the free flow of people and commerce, but also as an opportunity to invest in our foundational economic sectors. We look forward to working with you to address all of these critical needs and to ensure that our infrastructure investments in this country are as worthy as its people.” The Members state in the letter that investments should be made in traditional avenues such as roads, bridges and waterways, as well as but also our National Parks, the electric grid, local water systems, and as well as weatherization and energy efficiency for middle-class Americans’ homes. Read the full letter here.
06.06.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement regarding Anthem's announcement regarding their withdrawal from Ohio’s health insurance marketplace. “I am deeply saddened to hear about Anthem’s decision to drop out of Ohio’s health insurance marketplace. Over 7,900 of my constituents will have to find new insurance plans, and as many as 10,500 Ohioans across 20 counties will be left without any insurance options next year. This is a direct result of the Trump Administration and Congressional Republicans determination to sabotage the Affordable Care Act at every turn, jeopardizing the coverage of countless Americans and their families to score cheap political points. Republicans must abandon this destructive behavior of healthcare brinksmanship, and work with Democrats to expand quality, affordable healthcare to all,” said Congressman Ryan.
05.31.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today released the following statement in response to reports that President Trump is planning to formally withdraw the United States from the Paris Climate Agreement. “In a stunning abandonment of American Leadership aboard, President Trump is poised to join the ranks of Syria and Nicaragua, making the United States only the third country on Earth not to participate in the historic Paris Climate Change Agreement. This is a disastrous decision. It hurts places like Ohio, where the transition to a cleaner, more sustainable energy economy could bring jobs back to our communities. It hurts our planet by once again continuing to ignore the perils of global climate change. And finally it hurts our national security. We know that climate change can amplify or worsen tensions that lead to conflict such as food and water shortages. Since 2010 the U.S. military has designated climate change as a crucial factor to consider in future national security planning. President Trump’s insistence on ignoring, muzzling, or twisting scientific research to pretend climate change is not an issue puts us all in immediate and long term danger. Future generations will not look kindly on this decision, nor should they. This is a sad day for our nation and for the world,” said Congressman Ryan.
05.24.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) today reacted to the release of an updated Congressional Budget Office (CBO) report On the House passed GOP healthcare bill. “Trumpcare takes away healthcare from 23 million Americans, reduces the deficit even less than the first version, and gets there by throwing people with pre-existing conditions under the bus. This legislation is offensively bad, and will destroy the health care system Americans have come to rely on.
05.23.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today released the following statement upon reviewing President Trump’s full budget request. “The President today released a budget that he laughably titled ‘A New Foundation for American Greatness.’ As nice as that title may sound, closer inspection reveals that it is not a new foundation for shared growth, but a recipe for decline, suffering and mediocrity. Despite the President’s ability to talk a big game, he once again has moved to gut the very programs and institutions that truly make America the envy of the world,” said Congressman Ryan. “This budget is nothing more than a laundry list of broken promises. Again. President Trump’s brazen and indiscriminate cuts to vital social and jobs programs to finance tax cuts for billionaires and special interests is an unconscionable move that leaves hardworking Americans worse off. It will be devastating to investment, stifle innovation and supress job creation. This budget is a nonstarter. The President should go back to the drawing board and develop a serious budget that invests in the American worker, our communities, and our values. I stand ready to get to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle on a realistic budget that properly funds these important programs, and gets Americans back to work.” President Trump’s budget request undermines American Values in several key areas: Health: The President’s Budget would cut the Department of Health and Human Services by 18 percent, slash $5.8 billion from NIH which will inhibit access to lifesaving treatments, and cut $400 million for health care workforce development, blocking access to care in communities across the country already dealing with a shortage of health professionals. The budget also takes a sledgehammer to the Medicaid program, a move that could adversely impact as many as 71,000 veterans in Ohio alone, despite bragging about promises to do the opposite during the campaign. Education: The President’s Budget disinvests from our public school system, cuts programs that help minority students access higher education eliminates before and after school programs and other student enrichment programs that help students succeed, and slashes funding that would ensure that students have access to great teachers and that those teachers have the tools that they need. Urban Development: Trump’s budget would provide $3 billion less in Community Development Block Grant assistance, and $1.1 billion less for other community development programs that have benefited economically distressed regions and municipalities like Youngstown, Ohio. National Security: This budget Request cuts the Department of State and USAID by 31%, the lowest level of funding for these agencies since 2002. That would result in a reduction in the number of diplomats to advance US security interests in places like Iraq and Afghanistan. This is done in opposition to numerous statements from Defense and Military leaders, including the President’s own Secretary of Defense James Mattis, who have spoken out about the importance of funding diplomatic efforts.
05.19.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today announced a $245,000 grant from the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) to the Tech Belt Energy Innovation Center (TBEIC) in Warren, Ohio. The grant will be used to match funds provided by the State of Ohio to build out the technical capabilities in TBEIC’s Shared Resources Center. “The Tech Belt Energy Innovation Center is an engine for economic growth for our community, state, and when considering the innovations they’re helping to usher in, the country as a whole. As I’ve said many times, the importance of the investments made by the Appalachian Regional Commission cannot be understated. As long as I am a member of Congress, I will fight against proposed cuts from the Administration to make sure the Commission is empowered to continue engaging in this critical development work,” said Congressman Ryan. "The development of the TBEIC Shared Resource Lab has been a key part of our business strategy. The announcement of the ARC grant award will unlock our matching funds from the state of Ohio and will allow us to build out our Shared Resource Lab. The testing and certification lab will be a significant attraction piece to the TBEIC program and will enable us to enter the next phase of our energy incubation program. The lab will be a regional testing facility that will lead to the attraction of entrepreneurs and businesses to the city of Warren and the Mahoning Valley,” said John Pogue, Board President of TBEIC. “This investment will enable the Tech Belt Energy Innovation Center to guide small energy companies through their critical start-up phases.” Said Earl Gohl, Federal Co-Chairman of the Appalachian Regional Commission. “Institutional start-up and incubation support like this is critical to help firms across Ohio and the rest of Appalachia be successful and sustainable.” Technical focal points include a grid-connectivity and simulation lab, as well as an intelligent device lab, where IoT (Internet of Things) devices can be tested and certified per emerging industry standards in a grid-connected environment. The Shared Resource Center will also be used to help local industry make decisions regarding investment in new energy-saving technologies through technical demonstrations and testing. President Trump’s first Budget outline proposed to eliminate funding for the Appalachian Regional Commission. The Appalachian Regional Commission is an economic development agency of the federal government and 13 state governments focusing on 420 counties across the Appalachian region. ARC’s mission is to innovate, partner, and invest to build community capacity and strengthen economic growth in Appalachia and help the region achieve socioeconomic parity with the nation. In the past 50 years, ARC’s $3.8 billion investments resulted in 312,000 jobs and $10.5 billion in additional earnings.
05.18.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today released the following statement in response to the Trump Administration formally opening NAFTA renegotiations. “Just today I received a Trade Adjustment Assistance notification for workers in my district that lost their jobs due to unfair trade. There is no denying that foreign trade deals like NAFTA have hurt hardworking Americans and our manufacturing sector. But while I welcome these renegotiations, I call on President Trump to remember his campaign promise to prioritize the American worker. We cannot allow this to be yet another trade deal written by corporations and special interests. I am very worried about how transparent and accountable these NAFTA negotiations are going to be from an Administration that has perpetuated evasion and secrecy. And let’s be honest, over the last 100 days, Trump has only prioritized his millionaire friends and business ties. He has continually looked the other way when it comes to promoting policies that protect American workers, and he has not lifted a finger to deal with our national $347 billion China trade deficit. These actions are unacceptable, and as he begins these negotiations I hope he instead remembers the men and women of my district who want a fair chance at the American dream,” said Congressman Ryan. Today a formal letter was sent by United States Trade Representative, Robert Lighthizer, to inform Congress that the Administration intends to open trade talks with Canada and Mexico in an attempt to renegotiate NAFTA. Upon receipt of this letter a 90-day consultation period with Congress has been initiated, which must be completed before negotiations can formally proceed. The 90-day period would end August 16, 2017. The Administration is required to submit more detailed negotiating objectives 30 days prior to the start of the talks.
05.18.2017	Washington, DC – Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Susan Davis (D-CA) today introduced the Teacher Health and Wellness Act. This legislation provides support for teachers by creating a pilot study at the National Institute of Health aimed at reducing teacher stress, increasing teacher health and ultimately boosting student achievement. High levels of stress are adversely affecting teachers’ health. Teachers with high levels of stress are less effective in raising student achievement than their healthier peers. According to a 2014 Gallup survey, 46 percent of teachers experience high daily stress during the school year. This percentage is tied for the highest rate of high daily stress among occupations. Stress affects the physical health of teachers which compromises teaching performance and negatively impacts student well-being. Elementary school teachers who have greater stress and show more symptoms of depression create classroom environments that are less conducive to learning. “Before they can take care of our students, teachers must take care of themselves. Their important work can be mentally taxing, and having the tools available to manage these stresses is crucial to making sure our students are getting a first rate education,” said Rep. Ryan. “This legislation is a key component in elevating the teaching profession and making sure our educators have the support they need to help themselves, and our kids, succeed.” “I’m thrilled to join Congressman Tim Ryan to introduce this important legislation which will help us support educators and elevate the teaching profession,” said Rep. Davis. “There is no greater indicator of students’ success than the quality of their teachers, and we need to make sure that we reduce the stress and anxiety of teachers so that we can recruit and retain quality educators.” Stress is contributing to the high turnover rate among teachers. This high turnover rate is estimated to cost over $7 billion per year. According to the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, “Basic research is needed on additional ways to reduce teacher stress and support teacher health and wellness.” The Teacher Health and Wellness Act provides this support by creating a pilot study at the National Institute of Health aimed at reducing teacher stress and increasing teacher retention and well-being by implementing and analyzing the results of the following programs such as workplace wellness programs that improve teacher health, attendance, and engagement, social emotional learning programs that help teachers improve student engagement in the classroom, and teacher stress management programs that improve teacher performance. “To help all students achieve their potential, we need to retain America’s excellent teachers and recruit a generation of highly skilled new ones. To do this, reducing excessive stress in teaching is a must. This bill is a crucial and welcome step to tackle that.” Dan Brown, Co-Director, Educators Rising – a national network of more than 30,000 aspiring teachers. “We appreciate that this legislation recognizes the challenging and essential job teachers do every day and that they deserve meaningful support to be their most effective. Learning Forward believes that the well-being of educators is a critical component of ensuring their professional growth and meeting the needs of their students.” Stephanie Hirsh, Executive Director, Learning Forward. “Anyone working in a child-serving profession experiences some degree of daily stress and research has shown that many educators do not take time out to care for themselves and de-pressurize. This leads to physical and mental health problems, burnout, and ultimately many teachers leave the profession prematurely. Teaching resilience, problem solving, and emotion-management skills can help decrease stress and increase performance in teachers, as well as their students.” Joan Duffell, Executive Director, Committee for Children. “Building a caring, responsive classroom community is essential to students’ success and well-being. However, our report, ‘To Reach the Students, Teach the Teachers,’ showed that many teachers are not taught how to create such an environment, and therefore experience higher levels of stress and anxiety which negatively impacts their students. This bill would be a step toward understanding and actively putting into practice ways to help teachers utilize social and emotional learning to increase their own and their students’ well-being.” Roger Weissberg, Chief Knowledge Officer at the Collaborative for Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning (CASEL) The Teacher Health and Wellness Act also supports: (1) Mentoring and induction programs during the school year and teacher pre-service that improve teacher well-being. (2) Organizational interventions such as principal training programs that reduce stress through supervisor/peer support and increasing opportunities for teachers to participate in professional learning communities, teacher leadership positions and decision-making regarding school interventions and management. (3) Teacher residency programs that provide mental health and psychological support. (4) Complementary health approaches, such as mindfulness meditation, that improve teacher performance. (5) School reorganization that creates the conditions to facilitate the transmission and sharing of knowledge among teachers. (6) Other innovative evidence-based approaches that reduce stress and increase well-being in the teaching profession, which may include increased compensation. This legislation is supported by: The National Education Association; the American Federation of Teachers; the American Association of Colleges for Teacher Education (AACTE); Public Education and Business Coalition (PEBC); the Collaborative for Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning (CASEL); National Network of State Teachers of the Year (NNSTOY); The New Teacher Project (TNTP); Committee for Children; the Healthy Schools Campaign; Educators Rising; Teaching Matters; Learning Forward.
05.17.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement regarding Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein appointing a Special Counsel to oversee the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election. Former F.B.I. Director and prosecutor Robert Mueller has been appointed to the position. “This was a necessary and long-overdue step by the Department of Justice that moves us closer to getting to the truth. We need to remain vigilant and steadfast in the face of President Trump’s repeated attempts to obstruct justice. These serious allegations and the President’s extremely suspicious actions underscore why we cannot trust the Trump Administration to conduct a credible investigation.”
05.17.2017	Washington, DC -- Congressmen Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Glenn "GT" Thompson (R-PA) introduced the Veteran Wellness Act of 2017 today. This legislation would bring mental healthcare to our Veterans by establishing a two-year grant program to provide integrative wellness programs at Veterans Service Organizations (VSOs). More than 16 percent of Veterans have been diagnosed with a depressive disorder. Up to 43 percent struggle with symptoms of mental health issues, such as drinking excessively, smoking, and/or sleeplessness. These struggles have resulted in an unacceptably high rate of Veterans suicide. Every day 20 Veterans take their lives according to 2014 VA data – almost double the rate of non-Veterans. “The brave men and women of our armed forces answered the call to service to defend our freedoms at home and abroad. Now that they’re home, it is time for Congress to answer ours and do whatever we must to get veterans suffering from depression and other mental health issues the help they require to lead successful, happy lives,” Rep. Ryan said. “This grant funding will support integrative wellness programs, including yoga and meditation, which help tackle anxiety, and ease PTSD symptoms. I am pleased to see these programs, which have helped so many, becoming more and more available to those in need.” “Veteran Service Organizations provide critical resources to service members who are transitioning to civilian life,” Rep. Thompson said. “The Veteran Wellness Act will build upon the existing transitional services made available and offer more options for veterans to access wellness programs and therapies. These additional incentives will encourage veterans, especially those who served after 9/11, to become more involved in veterans organizations and surround themselves with supportive communities. I am pleased to again introduce this bill with Rep. Ryan during Veterans Mental Health Awareness Month. To serve one’s country is a selfless act. That is why it is so important to ensure there are appropriate services for our men and women in uniform when they return home because they deserve no less.” The need for assistance is clear. In Post 9/11 Veterans, up to 22 percent have depressive disorders. The age-adjusted rate of suicide by Veterans has increased by more than 30 percent and among female Veterans it has increased 85.2 percent. By virtue of their various locations in every state, territory, and region in our country, VSOs are uniquely equipped to help veterans wherever they are. The bill would also provide funding for: Repair or renovation of facilities to create or improve a wellness center. Complementary and integrative medicine and wellness programs. Childcare for classes. Priority will be given to VSOs applying for this program that are in rural or impoverished areas. ###
05.11.2017	San Francisco, CA -- Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Ro Khanna (D-CA) participated in a roundtable today on “Connecting Silicon Valley to the Heartland.” Ryan represents Youngstown, Ohio and Mahoning Valley and Khanna represents communities in Silicon Valley, CA. The congressmen outlined ways policy makers and technology leaders can work together to bring new avenues of economic opportunity to communities across the United States, including job training programs and incentives for businesses. Akron, Ohio Mayor Dan Horrigan was also in attendance. The roundtable was hosted by the Bay Area Council Economic Institute and moderated by Dr. Laura D. Tyson, director of the Institute for Business and Social Impact at Berkeley and former Chair of the President's Council of Economic Advisers. The roundtable’s goal was to explore economic implications of having better connections between Silicon Valley and the American Heartland. The conversation focused on how to build shared prosperity across the country rather than keep economic investment to a single region or job sector. “We have the perfect opportunity right now to help rebuild and rejuvenate communities that have been struggling with the loss of manufacturing by connecting Silicon Valley to places like the Mahoning Valley. It makes a lot of economic sense, both Silicon Valley and the American Heartland have individual strengths and resources that can benefit each other. I look forward to continuing to work with Rep. Khanna to help usher in a better and brighter future for every American, regardless of where they live,” said Rep. Tim Ryan. “There is talent across America and investments must be made in order to harness it,” said Rep. Ro Khanna. “Economic opportunity should not be limited by where you live, and I look forward to working with Rep. Ryan on how the tech sector can partner wih America’s heartland.” About CA-17 Congressman Khanna represents the 17th District of California, which covers communities in Silicon Valley. Visit his website at khanna.house.gov<https://khanna.house.gov>. Follow him on Facebook and Twitter @RepRoKhanna. About OH-13 Congressman Ryan represents the 13th District of Ohio, which covers Youngstown, Akron and communities in the Mahoning Valley. Visit his website at https://timryan.house.gov/. Follow him on Facebook and Twitter @RepTimRyan.
05.09.2017	Washington, DC -- Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to news that President Donald Trump has fired FBI Director James Comey. "The firing of FBI Director James Comey is yet another disturbing development in the matter of Russia's meddling in the 2016 election, and President Trump's lack of transparency regarding his financial entanglements and dealings with Russia. While I had my disagreements with the Director over certain issues, the nature of the position is that it be insulated from political pressures, that is why it is a ten year term of office. His firing signals a very dark day for the independent nature of the FBI's work, and further undermines the American people's trust in our institutions. The time has long since passed to investigate this matter in an independent, nonpartisan way. This development makes clear that we must appoint a special prosecutor to investigate the Trump-Russia ties. The American people deserve the truth,” said Congressman Ryan.
05.09.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) joined Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT.) in introducing legislation to protect the pensions of up to 10 million workers and retirees. The Keep Our Pension Promises Act would reverse a provision passed in 2014 that could result in deep pension cuts for millions of retirees and workers in multi-employer pension plans. “I am proud to work with Congresswoman Kaptur and Senator Sanders to introduce the Keep Our Pensions Promises Act, which provides a common sense solution to our multiemployer insurance system. It would strengthen our country’s pension plans and provide additional funding to the PBGC so that no man or woman needs to worry about whether or not they are going to receive their rightfully owed pension. Every day these workers went to work with the understanding that their future was secure with the benefits they were promised. This bill makes sure that the United States Government keeps that promise,” said Congressman Ryan. “Pensions are deferred income and retirees are owed these earned benefits. My bill with Senator Sanders ensures that we do right by our people," Kaptur said. "I thank the cosponsors of the Keep Our Pension Promises Act in the House and Senate and I urge the rest of my colleagues to come to the table and support this bill. I will fight every day to defend retirees. No matter where retirees draw their retirement, whether it is a pension, a 401k or Social Security, Americans deserve financial stability and security in their older years." “We have got to send a very loud and clear message to the Republican leadership in Congress and the president of the United States. When a promise is made to the working people of this country with respect to their pensions and retiree health benefits that promise cannot be broken,” Sanders said. “If Congress could bailout Wall Street and foreign banks throughout the world, we certainly can protect the pension benefits of American workers.” In December 2014, Congress approved and the president signed a spending bill that included provisions that allow for dramatic cuts to financially troubled multi-employer pensions. Under this provision, the pension benefits of retirees could be cut by 30 percent or more. Before the law was changed, it was illegal for an employer to cut the pension benefits retirees have earned. The new legislation establishes a legacy fund within the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation to ensure that multi-employer pension plans can continue to provide pension benefits to every eligible American for decades to come. This legislation is paid for by closing two tax loopholes that allow the wealthiest Americans to avoid paying their fair share of taxes. To read a summary of the bill, click here. To read the full text, click here.
05.08.2017	Akron, Ohio – At a reception held today at the Akron Art Museum (One South High St., Akron, OH 44308), Congressman Tim Ryan announced the winners of the 13th District Congressional Art Competition. There were 50 entries this year from 11 high schools around the District. "I think it is important to recognize the importance of the creative arts in the lives of our students and encourage them to participate in artistic endeavors as often as possible," said Congressman Ryan. "These students are risk takers and put their work out there to be judged. It’s that level of boldness that drives innovation and moves our communities forward, whether you are an artist, engineer, architect, or city planner. These men and women will help Northeast Ohio reshape its future."Best of Show: Kevin Shaffer, Valley Christian High School. His artwork will hang in the Capitol Tunnel in Washington, D.C. for eleven months.1st Place: Jenny Wang, Firestone High School2nd Place: Gianna Allesse Jones, Warren G Harding High School3rd Place: Madison McGuire, Niles McKinley High SchoolHonorable Mentions: Allexus Minor, Valley Christian High School Alyssa Kellar, Valley Christian High School Andre Wooding, Kenmore High School Bridget Walsh, Ursuline High School Bristen Evans, Valley Christian High School Derek Deppert , Kenmore High School Elizabeth Butto, Boardman High School Hayley Ohl, Trumbull Career and Technical Center Josiah Hayes, Warren G Harding High School Rea Gaugler, Niles McKinley High School Tilchan Kalikotey, North High School Tyra Cotto-French, Kenmore High School
05.08.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to today’s reports that President Donald Trump’s Fiscal Year 2018 Budget would effectively eliminate the Office of National Drug Control Policy – the agency charged with combating the opioid crisis and other drug epidemics. According to reports published today by Politico. “Throughout the campaign, Donald Trump pledged to address the opioid and prescription drug epidemic that is tearing apart communities across the country, yet his budget shows that those were hollow words. This epidemic is costing our nation $700 billion nationally in health, crime and lost productivity costs, but that is nothing compared to the toll it is taking on our families and friends. Now President Trump is turning his back on these men and women when they need our help the most. This agency contains important programs like Drug Free Communities that helps prevent youth substance abuse, and the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) Program, which in Ohio has removed over $90 million in wholesale value of illicit drugs from the marketplace. I call on President Trump to not make this irresponsible decision and instead increase funding for these important programs and the Office of National Drug Control Policy. We need to do more, not less,” said Congressman Ryan. The Office of National Drug Control Policy received $388 million in federal funding in Fiscal Year 2017, but according to reports it would only receive $24 million in Fiscal Year 2018.
05.05.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan announced a series of successful efforts to secure funding for policy priorities that positively impact the 13th Congressional District and Ohio. These funds were secured as a part of the omnibus funding agreement, which passed the House this week and funds the Federal Government through September. “Throughout my career I have been able to leverage my position on the powerful House Appropriations Committee to make sure our area is able to get the investments it needs to remain competitive in the economy so that our citizens can have good schools, good paying jobs, and secure retirements. From this position I am also able to impact policy at a national level, especially from my seat on the Appropriations subcommittee for Defense, and the subcommittee for Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies. As a member of Congress, making sure that the men & women of the United States Armed Services who have fought for us are taken care of in one of my top priorities. I will always be proud to fight for them, and my constituents. This funding is a direct result of those efforts,” said Congressman Ryan. Increase Access to Healthy Foods: $23 million – Healthy Food Financing Initiative The Healthy Food Financing Initiative is an effort by the federal government to help eliminate “food deserts.” This funding will help facilitate programs and increase access to healthy, affordable foods around the country. Promoting Innovative Research in the Military: $10 million – Funding for Air Force research for advanced manufacturing This funding represents the 3rd of funding for this program which seeks to provide more additively manufactured parts for the U.S. Air Force. The prior two years of funding ($10 million for each year) were used to conduct research that involved University of Dayton Research Institute, Youngstown State University and America Makes. $4 million – Funding for Air Force Aerospace research This funding will be used to design cyber-hardened flexible electronics as well as training and education, materials science, processing, device design, and system integration. Such research will ultimately provide the military with embedded tamperproof, multilayer structures that are built into the design and fabrication process and consistent with projected flexible electronics production. Protecting the Great Lakes: $300 million – Great Lakes Restoration Initiative These funds will be directed through the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to fully fund the restoration initiative. Lake Erie alone supports more than 117,000 full time jobs and provides clean drinking water to approximately 3 million Ohioans. Congressman Ryan staunchly opposed President Trump’s first budget proposal, which would have zeroed out federal funding for the initiative. Congressman Ryan also joined in signing onto a bipartisan, bicameral letter to EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt following reports that the Trump Administration plans to abolish Region 5 of the EPA urging him to reconsider this course of action. In 2015, Congressman Ryan’s legislation to create a Coordinator within the EPA specifically to tackle toxic algal blooms in Lake Erie was signed into law as part of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act of 2016.
05.05.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan announced today that Ohio is eligible to receive funding for addiction recovery services under two new grant programs authorized as part of the bipartisan Comprehensive Addiction & Recovery Act (CARA) – which was signed into law last year. Ryan is a Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus and a member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic and was a lead sponsor of CARA. “Families and communities across Ohio and the United States are struggling with opioid addiction, and they need help to push back against the growing tide, but they can’t do it alone. That is why the addiction recovery programs sustained through CARA funding, especially those becoming available to address the rate of babies born already dependent on drugs and services for pregnant and postpartum women, are so vital. I will work hard to direct money from these programs back to Ohio, and assure theat Congress can adequately fund the programs that make these lifesaving grants possible,” said Congressman Ryan. The Department of Health & Human Services’ (HHS) Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) is accepting applications for two new CARA grant programs: CARA’s Program for Treatment for Pregnant and Postpartum Women. The purpose of the program is to 1.) support family-based services for pregnant and postpartum women with a primary diagnosis of a substance use disorder, including opioid disorders; 2.) help state substance abuse agencies address the continuum of care, including services provided to women in nonresidential-based settings; and 3.) to encourage new approaches and models of service delivery. CARA’s Building Communities of Recovery Grant. The purpose of this program is increase the prevalence and quality of long-term recovery support from drug addiction. These grants will support the development, enhancement, expansion, and delivery of recovery support services as well as promote education about recovery. Programs will be principally governed by people in recovery from drug addiction who reflect the community served. Grant recipients may use funds to build connections between recovery networks and conduct public education and outreach on issues relating to addiction and recovery.
05.04.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today issued the following statement following the House vote to pass Trumpcare: “The Republican vote today to repeal the Affordable Care Act and replace it with Trumpcare will have devastating consequences for hard working families, and is an absolute betrayal of everything we stand for as Americans. House Republicans’ message to the American people? Get to the back of the line – behind insurance companies, HMO’s, and special interests. They took a bill that that didn’t reduce the cost of premiums, that didn’t expand health coverage for all, that didn’t protect people with pre-existing conditions and that nobody liked, and nobody wanted, and decided it was good policy. This is a dark day for the United States House of Representatives and our country. Republican Leadership and the Trump Administration should be ashamed. I call on the Senate to promptly reject this bill and bring security to the millions of Americans who now feel helpless and less certain about their own futures and health,” said Congressman Ryan.
05.03.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan, Ranking Member of the Appropriations Committee’s Legislative Branch Subcommittee, today issued the following statement after voting in favor of the Fiscal Year 2017 Omnibus Appropriations spending bill to keep the government funded through September. “Today I voted in favor this compromise spending bill that will fund the federal government through September. While this spending bill wasn’t perfect, it succeeded in securing policy priorities and funding for causes that are important to hard-working men and women in my district and across the country, and deserved congressional support,” said Congressman Ryan. “Most pressing among these issues is $1 billion for programs that help combat the opioid addiction epidemic. Families across Ohio and the nation are suffering, and these funds will help alleviate some of the financial burden for those in need of treatment.” “I was also happy to see a permanent solution included to deliver health benefits to the thousands of retired coal miners and their families, many of whom reside in Ohio, who would have lost coverage this month. Finally, this legislation fully funds the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, a program that is of the utmost importance to making sure the Great Lakes continue to be an indispensable economic and public health resource.”
05.03.2017	Washington, DC – Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH), Steve Stivers (R-OH), Mark Takano (D-CA) and Susan Brooks (R-IN) today introduced the bipartisan 21st Century SHOP CLASS Act, legislation that would upgrade and modernize career and technical education programs in schools across the country. The 21st Century SHOP CLASS Act would define maker education and makerspaces, and amend the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act to allow funding for maker education, makerspaces, and training for teachers in the application of maker education. As our country begins to respond to the increase in automation and the future of job creation, America’s “maker” economy continues to grow with tools such as 3D printers, laser cutters, desktop machines, and programs for digital designs becoming more affordable, common and powerful. As co-chairs of the House Maker Caucus, we believe that it is our responsibility to make sure every child has the opportunity to learn and excel with the skills necessary to move our country forward. Maker education can do this by exposing students to hands on project based learning approaches provided in makerspaces that encourage students to imagine, create, innovate, and tinker through the processes of manufacturing, testing, and demonstrating. “The renaissance of the maker movement and accompanying technologies has enormous potential to reshape our national economy. Tools such as 3D printers, desktop machines, and programs for digital design are becoming more affordable and accessible. None of that matters, however, if we don’t have a workforce trained to use them. This legislation will help widen the use of hands-on-education in these new technologies. It will get our students creating again, so that they have the opportunity to become fluent in the skills that tomorrow’s economy will demand. We can and must prepare the next generation for the 21st century,” said Congressman Ryan. “Makers are driving a creative and industrial rebirth across the country. By increasing access to tools and the knowledge necessary to operate them, the Maker Movement is creating new opportunities for hobbyists to develop new products and companies. This is the new reality of the American economy and Congress needs to adjust our laws to encourage these entrepreneurs,” said Congressman Takano. “The United States has a history of being home to many of the world’s great inventors, and we need to continue to support this spirit of innovation for future generations.” Congressman Steve Stivers (R-OH) said. “As a co-Chair of the Congressional Maker Caucus, I am proud to support this legislation to expand maker education and give teachers the resources they need for education in the 21st Century.” “As we look towards the future, it’s important that education and skills training keeps up with the rapid changes we’re seeing in technology and innovation,” Brooks said. “According to the U.S. Labor Department, 65 percent of students today will work in jobs that don’t yet exist. Makerspaces are a critical tool to prepare students of all ages for the jobs of the future, hone problem-solving skills, and foster creativity and innovation.” "I am very excited and encouraged by this legislation," says Maker Education Initiative's Executive Director, Warren Lathe. "Maker education is a student-driven, hands-on approach that deepens learning, and this legislation will help provide support for CTE and other educators to receive the training and resources they need to expand and implement this effective, engaging, and empowering approach in their schools." Nation of Makers is proud to support the SHOP CLASS Act. As Dorothy Jones-Davis, Executive Director, has stated, "If we are to be a true nation of makers, the development of a diverse set of academic, career, and technical skills is a necessity. Hands-on, project-based, collaborative maker education provides a key opportunity for the development of these key skills, allowing students to learn through experience and enabling technical knowledge of a broad skill set. The expansion of the current Perkins Act language to explicitly include maker education and makerspaces will allow CTE and other educators to provide crucial 21st century skill sets that will enhance current career and technical education, thereby modernizing and expanding current career pathways, and promoting American innovation, and economic development." Maker technologies such as 3D printers are already being used to build custom dental fittings and crowns; custom prosthetics; and electrical circuits. Bio 3-D printers can print a layer of a patient’s own cells which can grow to organs; bladders and kidneys have already been demonstrated in labs. At America Makes (formerly the National Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute) in Youngstown, OH an extensive network of additive manufacturing technical expertise is already working to advance additive manufacturing and create new jobs.
05.03.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today urged President Trump to assist with the ongoing effort to have Claudia Hoerig extradited to the United States to stand trial for the murder of her husband, U.S. Air Force Reserve Major Karl Hoerig. The full letter can be found here or below: May 2, 2017 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: I write to make you aware of a troubling case in my congressional district, State of Ohio v. Claudia C. Hoerig. The charging documents establish probable cause that Claudia C. Hoerig fatally shot her husband, U.S. Air Force Reserve Major Karl Hoerig, at their Newton Falls, Ohio home on March 12, 2007. The facts leading to the charge of aggravated murder underscore the pre-meditated nature of this heinous crime; Mrs. Hoerig allegedly purchased a Smith & Wesson .357 five shot revolver on March 10, 2007, went to a shooting range later that day to practice using the weapon and then fatally shot her husband. Mrs. Hoerig then fled to her native Brazil, where she awaits a Brazilian Supreme Court ruling on whether to extradite her to the United States. Due to Brazil’s constitutional provision prohibiting the extradition of its nationals, Claudia Hoerig currently enjoys safe haven from the reach of U.S. law and criminal procedure. After ten years of waiting for Claudia Hoerig to be brought to justice, she has yet to stand trial for the crimes with which she has been charged. Brazil’s constitution clearly has served as an unfortunate barrier to justice in this case, allowing Mrs. Hoerig to evade U.S. law enforcement despite the grave charges against her. I would very much appreciate every effort that you can make to bring justice to bear in this case. I would also appreciate the assistance of the U.S. State Department and the U.S. Justice Department in keeping my office and Karl Hoerig’s family up to date on any developments. I am happy to discuss this issue with you or your staff at any time. Should you have any questions or wish to reach me, please contact my office at 202-225-5261. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress Background on the murder of Karl Hoerig: On March 15th, 2007 U.S. Air Force Reserve Major Karl Hoerig was found fatally shot in his home. Claudia Hoerig, his wife at the time has been charged with her crime. Three days prior to Karl being found, Claudia had emptied her husband’s bank account, wired additional money to relatives in Brazil, and fled the U.S. to her native country of Brazil. As a private pilot for Southwest Airlines, Karl and Claudia Hoerig were entitled to free airfare. Claudia took advantage of this benefit after the murder to flee to her home country. Claudia Hoerig has remained free from justice since 2007, avoiding trial by taking advantage of a provision in the Brazilian constitution that bans extradition of any Brazilian citizen. This provision in the Brazilian constitution was added after a 1961 treaty in which Brazil promised to extradite criminals such as Hoerig to the U.S. Brazilian Extradition Policy: Unlike the United States constitution, the constitution of the Federative Republic of Brazil explicitly prohibits the extradition of its citizens charged with one or more criminal acts. While the United States’ policy is to extradite to Brazil persons facing charges in that country, Brazil’s law enforces the prohibition of extradition of its nationals. Nevertheless, the United States continues to provide Brazilian nationals with visas for entry into the United States. The result is that nationals of the Federative Republic of Brazil who commit criminal acts on US soil are able to evade justice under the sanctuary of the Brazilian government simply by fleeing to Brazilian territory. Congressman Ryan maintains that Claudia Hoerig should no longer be considered a Brazilian citizen since she renounced her Brazilian citizenship when she was in the United States. The Brazilian Supreme Court has sided with Congressman Ryan and revoked Claudia’s Brazilian Citizenship on July 31, 2013 but she appealed that decision. Last April, Brazil’s Supreme Court justices ruled by a majority of three to two to uphold the Brazilian Ministry of Justice’s administrative decision that had revoked Claudia Hoerig's Brazilian citizenship – allowing extradition procedures to move forward. Congressman Ryan’s Action Timeline on the Claudia Hoerig Case: (LETTER) May 4, 2007 letter to U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales(link is external) (LETTER) May 4, 2007 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice(link is external) (LETTER) November 20, 2007 letter to Brazilian Foreign Minister Amorim (link is external) (LETTER) November 27, 2007 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Patriota (link is external) (LETTER) November 29, 2007 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Patriota (link is external) (MEETING) December 18, 2007 Ryan meets with Brazilian Officials regarding Hoerig Case (VIDEO) April 3, 2008 Ryan facilitates AMVETS Commander to speak on Hoerig Case (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Patriota(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to Brazilian Chamber of Deputies President Arlindo Chinaglia (link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to Brazilian President Lula da Silva(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to President of the Senate Garilbaldi Alves(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to U.S. Ambassador to Brazil Clifford Sobrel(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice(link is external) (LETTER) March 4, 2009 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton(link is external) (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 11, 2009 Ryan introduces Ryan-Boccieri Hoerig Resolution (LETTER) March 3, 2011 letter to U.S. President Barack Obama (link is external) (LETTER) May 26, 2011 letter to Mary Warlow, U.S. Director of International Affairs, Dept. of Justice (link is external) (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 21, 2011 Ryan introduces Brazilian Foreign Aid Fairness Act (LETTER) July 27, 2011 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton (VIDEO) June 7, 2012 Ryan Spoke on House Floor on Claudia Hoerig and Brazilian Visa Amendment (BILL INTRODUCTION) February 14, 2013 Ryan Introduces "End Immunity for Brazilian Criminals Act" and the "Karl Hoerig Foreign Aid Suspension Act” (LETTER) March 12, 2013 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Mauro Vieira (VIDEO) April 17, 2013 Ryan protests Brazilian contract during Defense Appropriations Hearing over Hoerig Case (PRESS RELEASE) April 22, 2013 Ryan Questions Former Defense Secretary Hagel May 22, 2013 Ryan introduces Amendment to restrict immigrant visas for Brazilians (PRESS RELEASE) July 31, 2013 Brazil Revokes Hoerig’s Citizenship (VIDEO) June 5, 2013 Ryan speaks on House Floor on Amendment to Restrict Brazilian Immigrant Visas (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 15, 2015 Ryan introduces ‘Karl Hoerig Foreign Aid Suspension Act’ (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 15, 2015 Ryan introduces ‘End Immuity for Brazilian Criminals Act’ (PRESS RELEASE) July 31, 2013 Brazil Revokes Hoerig’s Citizenship (PRESS RELEASE) June 29, 2015 Ryan Calls on Brazilian President to Extradite Hoerig (PRESS RELEASE) April 20, 2016 Congressman Tim Ryan and Prosecutor Dennis Watkins Announce Major Breakthrough in Hoerig Case – Brazil revokes Claudia Hoerig’s citizenship and places her under arrest (PRESS RELEASE) March 13, 2017 Congressman Tim Ryan Marks Ten Year Anniversary of Karl Hoerig Murder Letters Received: December 17, 2007 letter from Brazillian Ambassador Patriota(link is external) December 17, 2007 letter from the U.S. State Department(link is external) December 21, 2007 letter from the Brazil Ministry of External Relations(link is external) January 23, 2008 letter from the Justice Department Office of Legislative Affairs(link is external) May 23, 2008 letter from the State Department Office of Legislative Affairs(link is external) February 24, 2009 letter from the State Department Office of Legislative Affairs(link is external) September 19, 2011 letter from the State Department Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs October 24. 2011 letter from the Brazillian Ambassador to the United States of America, Mauro Vieira
05.03.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Tim Ryan Yesterday voted against the so called Working Families Flexibility Act, otherwise known as H.R. 1180. This legislation would amend the Fair Labor Standards Act to allow employers to pay workers nothing for overtime work in exchange for a promise of compensatory time off in the future. “This legislation undermines the right to hard-earned overtime pay -- pay that many families in my district and across the country use to make ends meet. It is unconscionable that Republicans in Congress, after claiming time and time again to be fighting for the middle class, would then turn around and punish people for putting in extra hours. Pay for an honest day’s work is one of the foundations of our society, and every American should be paid for the time they put in” said Congressman Ryan. The “Working Families Flexibility Act” means more work and less pay for Americans, not flexibility for the worker. Under the GOP bill: For workers getting comp time instead of overtime pay, their promised comp time would go into an employer-controlled pot to be paid later. An employer can refuse to allow a worker to take time off to deal with a family member or attend a parent-teacher conference. This is not real flexibility for workers. Employers could schedule excessive overtime hours and only offer overtime work to workers who agree to take comp time instead of overtime wages. Since unused comp time will not be paid to workers until the end of the year, this amounts to an interest-free loan out of workers’ pockets to the employer.
05.02.2017	Washington, DC – Representatives Tim Ryan (OH-13), Dan Lipin­ski (IL-03) and Mike Doyle (PA-14) today introduced a resolution to emphasize the massive economic impact of tribology on the U.S. economy and highlight the need for further research and development into the field. Tribology is a branch of science and engineering encompassing scientific disciplines related to controlling of friction, reduction of wear loss, and development and application of novel lubrication strategies. Increased research and development investments in tribology will assist in providing solutions to critical technical problems in manufacturing, energy production and use, transportation vehicles and infrastructure, greenhouse emissions, defense and homeland security, health care, mining safety and reliability, and space exploration, among others. Approximately a third of the world’s primary energy consumption is attributed to friction; and about 70 percent of the equipment failures is blamed on lubrication breakdown and wear loss. Loss of energy to friction and material losses due to wear in mechanical systems such as internal combustion and gas turbine engines account for major economic and environmental burdens. “More than 1,000 American enterprises comprising of industry, government laboratories, and universities are engaged in tribology related activities that include development of new materials, coatings and lubricants, as well as sales and service. This enabling technology contributes $400 billion to $700 billion annually to the U.S. economy. An estimated 300,000 individuals are employed in this sector with salaries that are higher than the median income in the U.S. The job market for tribologists and lubrication engineers has been on the rise. If the economic and social impact of this technology is recognized, increased investments and higher job growth rates are expected,” said Rep. Ryan. “This important field of science and engineering impacts nearly every manufactured product. Breakthroughs in this area have the potential to vastly reduce wear and tear on our equipment and increase our energy efficiency. An increased focus on tribology will help us harness the innovation of our scientists and engineers to create jobs and protect the environment,” said Rep. Lipinsky. “They say the squeaky wheel gets the grease, and tribology teaches us why that’s such a good policy,” Rep. Doyle observed today. “The impact of friction and wear on our economy is huge – much greater than most people would imagine. Consequently the study of tribology holds the potential for tremendous energy and monetary savings that could ripple through the global economy. That’s why I support this legislation to raise awareness about the benefits of increased research in this field.” “It is my pleasure to support Representatives Ryan’s proposal to increase research spending in tribology and related fields. As is well known to those in the field, the US economy suffers an enormous cost annually to tribological deficiencies,” Dr. Donald P. Visco, Jr., Interim Dean, College of Engineering, University of Akron. “Tribology is prevalent in our daily lives, from flexing the biological muscles and joints that set ourselves in motion, to the operation of light and heavy machinery, from nano to macro scales. The management of friction, lubrication, and wear is recognized as essential for the longevity and safety of the machines we rely on, ranging from daily transportation to nuclear power generation. The science and technology of "Green Tribology" is aimed at saving resources and energy, as well as the enhancement of the environment and our quality of life. These challenges present great opportunities to improve manufacturing,” Dr. G. P. “Bud” Peterson, President Georgia Institute of Technology. “On behalf of the Society of Tribologists and Lubrications Engineers (STLE), I applaud Congressman Tim Ryan for his leadership in introducing this legislation highlighting the importance of tribology and lubrication engineering. STLE is an individual membership society focusing on professional, technical and scientific issues and needs. Our members are technical experts who research, develop and market the methods and products that make industry more successful and that enhance the well-being of people worldwide,” Edward Salek, STLE Executive Director. This Legislation is supported by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), Auburn University, Carnegie Mellon University, Georgia Institute of Technology, Society of Tribologists and Lubrication Engineers (STLE), Pennsylvania State University, and the University of Akron.
04.28.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13), with Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11), and Congresswomen Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) and Joyce Beatty (OH-3), introduced The Breaking Addiction Act of 2017. As Ohio continues to grapple with a deadly heroin/opioid epidemic, this legislation breaks down barriers to treatment and increases the number of beds available for patients suffering from substance use disorder. Under current law, the Institutions for Mental Diseases (IMD) exclusion prohibits Medicaid matching payments for services provided in treatment facilities that have more than 16 beds. The Breaking Addiction Act removes this outdated policy, allowing states to better utilize Medicaid to serve more people. “Each day I turn on the news and learn about another life taken too soon because of heroin or prescription drug abuse. As a country, we must do more to ensure these men and women have access to the care that is desperately needed, and that means taking a hard look at our current treatment structure. That is why I am proud to join Congresswoman Fudge in introducing The Breaking Addiction Act, which addresses the growing drug crisis and increases access to addiction treatment. Not another day should go by that a person can’t find help due to this outdated system. As Democratic Co-Chair of the Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus, I will continue to urge my congressional colleagues to move this legislation forward and help combat this ongoing epidemic,” said Congressman Ryan. “Too many Ohioans in the 11th Congressional District suffer from substance abuse, and they are not alone. Our state and nation are in the middle of a deadly epidemic that, if it continues, will have devastating effects on our future,” said Congresswoman Fudge. “While many seek care, they are turned away because communities cannot meet the demand for treatment. By getting rid of the antiquated IMD exclusion, The Breaking Addiction Act not only increases access to treatment, but gives states the flexibility and resources they need to save lives.” “Families and communities devastated by the tragedy of opioid addiction need relief. Empty promises and shell game budget maneuvers will not stem the tide of suffering and heartache that so many families endure as a result of the opioid crisis in America. I urge Congress to pass this bill because drug addiction is a crippling disease and it deserves the same level of treatment and care as other illnesses,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Every day, on average, nearly 10 Ohioans die from an accidental opioid overdose. In fact, the State of Ohio has the unfortunate distinction of having the most opioid-related overdoses than any other state in the nation. These startling statistics are proof positive that we need to do more to help Ohioans—and Americans across the country—struggling with addiction get the treatment they need. The Breaking Addiction Act will do precisely that. I thank Congresswoman Fudge for introducing this important piece of legislation, and will work with her and the entire Ohio Democratic Congressional delegation to get this much-needed bill signed into law,” said Congresswoman Beatty. The Breaking Addiction Act was first introduced by Reps. Ryan and Fudge in 2014 directing the Secretary of HHS to accept state IMD exclusion waiver applications. The 2017 version enhances the previous legislation by getting rid of the IMD exclusion completely to reduce red tape and allow states, like Ohio, to address the growing drug epidemic faster. Read The Breaking Addiction Act of 2017.
04.27.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today urged Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos to reverse a decision to rescind Obama-era memos on student loan servicing reforms. The reforms had included new consumer protections for borrowers and improvements to the quality of federal loan servicing. The letter was signed by more than 130 Members of Congress. “Secretary DeVos’s decision to roll back consumer protections for college students was deeply distressing, to say the least. We should be making it easier and more affordable to go to college, not harder and more expensive. This decision rips away important protections from young people, across the country taking out student loans and working to create a better future for themselves. This is further proof that the Trump Administration cares more about helping student loan lenders gain profits than protecting our students from being preyed upon by those very same institutions,” said Congressman Ryan. “Your decision to rescind these memos—including the guidance making servicers’ past performance and record of compliance with the law the most important non-cost factor in the evaluation—will put millions of borrowers and taxpayers at risk,” wrote the Members of Congress. “Without accounting for past performance, federal contracts will be open to bidders that have previously violated state or federal consumer protection laws, mistreated members of our military, and consistently ignored the needs of their borrowers.” On April 11, 2017, the U.S. Department of Education announced Secretary DeVos was rescinding three critical policy memos intended to reform the student loan servicing process meant to better assist borrowers in managing their loans, hold servicers accountable, and set financial incentives that will best support the interest of students. The memos were issued by the Obama Administration following a request from Senate Democrats for common-sense improvements to the student loan servicing process. House Democrats also requested the Department continue to improve the student loan collection and servicing processes for struggling borrowers. After DeVos’ latest action, it is unclear how the Department intends to move forward with the current contracts for student loan servicing which are worth more than $840 million per year. “With one in four student loan borrowers in default or delinquent on their federal student loans, it is the responsibility of the Department to address the student debt crisis and ensure that all service providers in the student loan program are doing everything they can to put students and families first ahead of the profits of student loan companies,” wrote the Members. The letter was signed by 111 House Democrats and 25 Senator Democrats. The text of the full letter is below and a PDF of the letter can be found here. April 26, 2017 The Honorable Betsy DeVos Secretary of Education U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W. Washington, DC 20202 Dear Secretary DeVos, We are very concerned by your April 11th decision to rescind policy directives that would have protected student loan borrowers. This sudden and unwarranted action raises significant questions about how the U.S. Department of Education (“Department”) plans to proceed with the procurement of new federal student loan servicing contracts (“recompete”) and whether you will manage federal loan servicing activities in a manner that holds federal student loan servicers more accountable, helps millions of borrowers avoid the terrible consequences of default and delinquency, and ultimately protects the rights of students and families. More than 42 million Americans collectively owe nearly $1.3 trillion dollars in federal student loan debt, and student loan servicers act as these borrowers’ primary point of contact for managing their loans. Whether borrowers are struggling to repay their loans, seeking actionable information about how to lower their payments, or just need help finding the repayment or forgiveness plan that best meets their needs, student loan servicers play a significant role in borrowers’ daily lives and act as official representatives of the federal government. After years of pervasive and widespread failures in student loan servicing, many borrowers are simply fed up with delays, errors, and mismanagement of their loans. Serious issues with servicing operations and oversight have been repeatedly identified by an avalanche of complaints from borrowers, countless investigations of and settlements with servicers for alleged violations of consumer protection laws, and numerous reports from the Government Accountability Office and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). Given the strong consensus on the policies needed to dramatically improve customer service for federal student loan borrowers, the Department took steps to overhaul student loan servicing. Under the previous Administration, the Department issued several memos for the recompete to establish rules to prevent predatory, abusive, and unfair behavior by servicers, and to write new consumer rights and protections into the next round of servicing contracts. Your decision to rescind these memos—including the guidance making servicers’ past performance and record of compliance with the law the most important non-cost factor in the evaluation—will put millions of borrowers and taxpayers at risk. Without accounting for past performance, federal contracts will be open to bidders that have previously violated state or federal consumer protection laws, mistreated members of our military, and consistently ignored the needs of their borrowers. Most notably, your decision to rescind uniform servicing standards—for activities such as the way loan payments are applied, how accounts are transferred between servicers, and the loan forgiveness and repayment information that must be provided to borrowers—signals an unwillingness to support and safeguard the best interest of borrowers. These consumer protections were carefully crafted based upon President Obama’s Memorandum on the Student Aid Bill of Rights and the joint servicing principles that the Department wrote in consultation with the Treasury Department and the CFPB to reform and simplify student loan servicing, improve borrower outcomes, and reduce student loan defaults. The standards also would have helped borrowers receive consistent, adequate, and timely communications from servicers and allowed for much greater transparency on the performance of the entire the federal student loan program. Contrary to the rationale you provided for withdrawing these policies, which was “to negate any impediment, ambiguity or inconsistency,” the policy directives were quite specific, unambiguous, and consistent with previously-established principles for student loan servicing reform and repeated bipartisan requests from Members of Congress to reform student loan servicing in a manner that puts the interests of students and families first. During your confirmation process, you stated that the Department “should do everything possible to ensure that our students are getting excellent servicing of their student loans,” and your April 11th memo committed to ensuring “that borrowers are being treated fairly and equitably.” Despite these commitments, you have not presented a strategy for ensuring borrowers are being treated fairly and equitably by servicers and you have not provided a plan for how you intend to move forward with this highly consequential recompete process. With one in four student loan borrowers in default or delinquent on their federal student loans, it is the responsibility of the Department to address the student debt crisis and ensure that all service providers in the student loan program are doing everything they can to put students and families first ahead of the profits of student loan companies. We ask that you immediately reverse your decision and reinstate the previous memos and directives to Federal Student Aid. Finally, we request that the Department quickly clarify how the initial decision to rescind the memos was made and whether the current recompete will result in the development of a single servicing platform for borrowers, greater transparency and accountability from servicers, and high-quality student loan servicing that conforms to the joint servicing principles by the Departments of Education, Treasury, and the CFPB.
04.26.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Ryan released the following statement in response to President Trump’s proposed tax plan. "The Trump Administration’s proposed tax cuts just don’t add up. Once again a Republican Administration has been proven to be utterly disinterested in fiscal responsibility as long as their millionaire and billionaire friends get huge tax breaks, regardless if hardworking, middle class Americans get stuck paying the bill. While I am in agreement that we must simplify the insanely complex U.S. tax code and believe we need to reduce our corporate tax rate so our country can be more competitive in the global market, it can’t be done in a way that passes along the expenses to the middle class, which is already squeezed. President Trump’s tax proposal is not tax reform, but it is instead more George W. Bush-style tax cuts, which put our country in the worst economic recession since the Great Depression. The President’s plan makes no mention of closing special interest loopholes, how to pay for any of it, and how much it will increase our national debt. This is an ideological proposal and would be a blow to the economic health of the United States. I cannot support it," said Congressman Ryan.
04.25.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Ryan today released the following statement in response to Republicans proposing a tax on newly enlisted troops. The drafted legislation would charge soldiers approximately $100 a month for access to the GI Bill. The bill would deduct a total of $2,400 annually from each soldier’s paycheck. “I am deeply concerned with the Republican proposal to charge our newly-enlisted service members for enrollment in the GI Bill. It is outrageous that while troop levels are increasing in Syria, tensions are escalating with North Korea, and the fight against ISIS continues, we are simultaneously talking about removing benefits from the 1% of Americans personally bearing the dramatic cost of these policies. I refuse to tax our most junior military members, many eligible for food stamps and living below the federal poverty level, in order to make it easier for Republicans to pass off tax cuts to billionaires and build a wasteful and ineffective border wall. “As a member of the House Appropriations Committee’s Subcommittees on both Defense and Veterans Affairs, I take my Congressional responsibility very seriously to care for our service members from the moment they raise their hand while standing on those boot camp footprints until the day we render them earned funeral honors. I will continue to aggressively oppose legislative attempts to make their lives between those footprints and funeral honors any more difficult than necessary to protect and defend our country,” said Congressman Ryan.
04.25.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan joined in signing onto a bipartisan, bicameral letter to EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt from Members of Congress representing the Great Lakes Region following reports that the Trump Administration plans to abolish Region 5 of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) – which serves Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin, Indiana, Minnesota, and Ohio – as part of the fiscal year 2018 budget. U.S. Senator Dick Durbin and U.S. Representative Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) led the bipartisan coalition of lawmakers. The letter stressed the importance of the Great Lakes, which provide 90 percent of the nation’s fresh water supply and are a source of drinking water for more than 30 million Americans. “The Great Lakes are a vital resource and strategic advantage and it’s critical that we do everything in our power to safeguard their health and well-being. Lake Erie alone supports more than 117,000 full time jobs and provides clean drinking water to approximately 3 million Ohioans. I will do everything in my power to stop this attack on Ohio, the Midwest, and the Great Lakes region -- including fighting this reckless closing of the EPA Region 5 office,” said Congressman Ryan. “We write to express our grave concerns regarding reports that the Administration plans to abolish Region 5 of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as part of the fiscal year 2018 budget. EPA Region 5 is critical to protecting the air, drinking water, and health of residents in the six Great Lakes states the region serves and closing its headquarters in Chicago would make EPA less efficient and effective in its efforts to protect human health and the environment. Accordingly, we request that you commit to preserving EPA Region 5,” the members wrote. U.S. Representative Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) is leading the House coalition, along with Tim Ryan (D-OH), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Brad Schneider (D-IL), Bobby Rush (D-IL), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Bill Foster (D-IL), Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-IL), Rick Nolan (D-MN), Marcia Fudge (D-OH), Dan Kildee (D-MI), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Peter Visclosky (D-IN), Robin Kelly (D-IL), Luis Gutiérrez (D-IL), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Sander Levin (D-MI), Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Andre Carson (D-IN), John Conyers Jr. (D-MI), Cheri Bustos (D-IL), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Danny Davis (D-IL), and Ron Kind (D-WI). Along with Durbin, the letter was signed by U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Gary Peters (D-MI), Al Franken (D-MN), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Rob Portman (R-OH), and Sherrod Brown (D-OH). Congressman Tim Ryan previously authored legislation to require the EPA to appoint a coordinator to address the issue of harmful algal blooms in the Great Lakes. The legislation passed the House of Representatives in April of 2016. Congressman Ryan was joined by a bipartisan group of members, including: Representatives Marcy Kaptur (D-OH-9), Marcia Fudge (D-OH-11), Jim Renacci (R-OH-16), David Joyce (R-OH-14), Joyce Beatty (D-OH-3), Peter Visclosky (D-ID-1), Chris Collins (R-NY-27). Full text of the letter below: April 25, 2017 Dear Administrator Pruitt: We write to express our grave concerns regarding reports that the Administration plans to abolish Region 5 of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as part of the fiscal year 2018 budget. EPA Region 5 is critical to protecting the air, drinking water, and health of residents in the six Great Lakes states the region serves and closing its headquarters in Chicago would make EPA less efficient and effective in its efforts to protect human health and the environment. Accordingly, we request that you commit to preserving EPA Region 5. EPA’s Chicago office regularly works closely with state and local governments to effectively address the unique challenges and needs of the region, including protecting 90 percent of the nation’s fresh water supply and a significant portion of the Mississippi River watershed from invasive species, harmful algal blooms, and industrial pollution—preserving the source of drinking water for more than 30 million Americans. Region 5 experts were among the first scientists to alert officials to the elevated lead levels in Flint, Michigan’s drinking water. Following the 2014 drinking water ban in Toledo, Ohio due to microcystin contamination from harmful algal blooms, Region 5 assisted Ohio and Michigan in upgrading drinking water treatment facilities to protect citizens in the region. Additionally, as manager of the Great Lakes National Program Office, the EPA Region 5 Administrator plays a key role in ensuring the U.S. meets its international commitments under the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement. The Office also works with Canada to ensure that the Great Lakes continue to support a $5 trillion economy with more than 51 million jobs. The day-to-day responsibilities of carrying out the Agreement and our promises to Canada would be jeopardized if EPA Region 5 was eliminated. Region 5 is also responsible for more Superfund sites than any other region and EPA Region 5 experts play a vital role in legacy waste clean-up and environmental justice initiatives. You witnessed this firsthand when you toured the USS Lead site in East Chicago, Indiana. EPA Region 5 also maintains staff in each state so that it can quickly respond to chemical spills and other emergencies, like last week’s hexavalent chromium spill at a U.S. Steel Corporation site in Indiana and the 2010 Enbridge oil spill in the Kalamazoo River. Without EPA Region 5’s presence in the area, timely action would have been significantly less likely and these spills could have done more damage to the environment and surrounding communities. While shutting down EPA’s Region 5 Chicago office would make it more difficult and less efficient for the federal government to work in partnership with state and local communities in our region, it is unclear that it would reduce costs to EPA as a whole. Region 5 does not duplicate enforcement or regulatory actions, rather Region 5 allows the EPA to better coordinate federal efforts with state and local governments. In fact, state environmental agencies often rely on EPA Region 5 experts for technical assistance and financial support. More than half of EPA’s budget is sent directly to states to aid in clean-up and other environmental programs. Closing EPA’s Region 5 office would have a devastating effect on those that call Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin, Indiana, Minnesota, and Ohio home. Therefore, we urge you to protect the environmental health and well-being of our states by keeping Region 5 intact and fully supporting its critical mission. Sincerely,
04.25.2017	Youngstown, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan today announced a $70,000 Appalachian Regional Commission Project Grant to Mercy Health Youngstown, LLC to be used for the purchase of new medical education simulation equipment. The equipment will improve and expand clinical training for physicians, dentists, nurses, medical students, and other healthcare professionals and medical staff in the region. According to the Mercy Health and the ARC, this investment will enhance competency for healthcare providers, improve patient outcomes, and increase access to healthcare in under-served areas of Appalachian Ohio. The equipment supplied under this grant is also necessary for Mercy Health to be able to maintain its accreditation status with the Accreditation Council on Graduate Medical Education, which is vital to its medical education programs. In addition to ARC funds, the Mercy Health Foundation will provide $70,000 in local matching funds, bringing the total project funding to $140,000. “Mercy Health in Youngstown is a vital resource supporting the health and wellbeing of citizens in the Mahoning Valley, and a vital engine of our local economy. This crucial funding from the Appalachian Regional Commission assures that it will continue to be just that. As I’ve said many times, the importance of the investments made by the ARC cannot be understated and I am personally offended that President Trump is seeking to would eliminate this important program. As long as I am a member of Congress, I will fight against proposed cuts from the Administration to make sure it is empowered to continue engaging in life-saving development work like this across Appalachia, a region in desperate need of help. I look forward to watching Mercy Health continue to expand its reputation for excellence with these new resources,” said Congressman Ryan. President Trump’s first Budget outline proposed to eliminate funding for the Appalachian Regional Commission. The Appalachian Regional Commission is an economic development agency of the federal government and 13 state governments focusing on 420 counties across the Appalachian region. ARC’s mission is to innovate, partner, and invest to build community capacity and strengthen economic growth in Appalachia and help the region achieve socioeconomic parity with the nation. In the past 50 years, ARC’s $3.8 billion investments resulted in 312,000 jobs and $10.5 billion in additional earnings.
04.25.2017	Washington, DC – Despite President Donald Trump’s campaign promises to punish companies that needlessly offshore American jobs, the flow of federal contracts to major offshorers has continued steadily since Trump’s inauguration, according to a new report released today by Good Jobs Nation and Public Citizen’s Global Trade Watch. The report, titled “Trump’s First 100 Days: Federal Contracting with Corporate Offshorers Continues,” reveals that a majority of the largest U.S. government contractors ship jobs overseas. Key findings of the study include: 56 percent of the top 50 federal contractors in FY 2016 were certified under just one narrow U.S. government program as having engaged in offshoring and 41 percent of the top 100 FY 2016 contractors were certified as having offshored jobs. The top federal contractors certified as having offshored jobs received $176 billion in contracts in 2016, which accounts for more than a third of total contract spending for that year. Since President Trump’s inauguration, the flow of federal contract awards to major offshorers has continued, with United Technologies, for instance, receiving 15 new awards and General Electric obtaining scores more. Read the full report here. “Candidate Trump rightfully made offshoring a major pillar of his campaign, but you wouldn’t know it by looking at President Trump’s first hundred days in office. It is outrageous that companies who make billions of dollars from contracts paid for by American taxpayers should then be allowed to turn around and send our jobs overseas. Before Trump took the oath of office, he made a big song and dance about a Carrier deal to stop the company from slashing American jobs (in the end 1,000 of their Indiana jobs still went to Mexico); but now that Donald Trump is president, he is doing nothing to stop tax dollars from going to companies that are blatantly exporting American jobs. Sadly, this is yet another, in a long line of broken promises to the American people. We deserve better from our President,” said Congressman Ryan. “After pledging to punish companies that offshore American jobs, Trump has not even used his expansive unilateral authority to ban offshorers from being awarded lucrative government contracts. Instead of delivering on his promises to end offshoring and create American jobs, Trump is rewarding companies that offshore with big contracts paid by our tax dollars, has not even introduced the End Offshoring Act or launched the NAFTA renegotiations he promised for his first 100 days, and caved on declaring China a currency manipulator and taking tough actions to reduce our huge job-killing China trade deficit,” said Lori Wallach, director of Public Citizen’s Global Trade Watch. “Our analysis proves that Donald Trump is not fulfilling his signature campaign promises to stop offshoring and bring back American jobs. Even though he’s signed over 60 executive orders during his first 100 days, he has yet to use the power of the pen to stop corporations that receive taxpayer dollars from shipping American jobs overseas,” said Joseph Geevarghese, director of Good Jobs Nation. US presidents have broad executive authority to enact “policies and directives” for federal contracting. Trump has failed to exercise this authority to cut off firms that offshore from obtaining lucrative government contracts paid with taxpayers funds. The report highlights that President Trump appeared willing to flex his muscle as “purchaser-in-chief” right after the 2016 election with his high-profile interventions to try to prevent United Technologies, a major defense contractor, from shipping its Carrier subsidiary’s operations to Mexico. However, the study finds that since then President Trump not only has failed to take promised actions, such as introducing and “fight[ing] for passage within the first 100 days of my Administration” of a Stop Offshoring Act, but his administration has approved lucrative contracts with some of the nation’s most notorious offshoring corporations. Congressman Ryan, however, has already introduced the RETAIN Act with Representatives Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Mark Pocan (D-WI), and Louise Slaughter (D-NY). This legislation modifies the United States Code for civilian and defense contracts by adding a preference for contractors that promise to retain jobs in the United States. To be eligible for the preference, an applicant for a federal contract must submit a certification that confirms the contractor and its subcontractors will not relocate jobs from the United States to foreign countries during the period of performance of the contract and will use products substantially manufactured in the United States and services provided in the United States under the contract.
04.24.2017	WARREN, OH —Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH-13) and U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown convened a roundtable with northeast Ohio steelworkers at the USW Local 1375 Union Hall in Warren to hear from Ohio workers about unfair trade practices that have contributed to an enormous oversupply of steel production capacity and harmed Ohio workers. Ryan and Brown sought feedback as they look to work with President Trump on rolling back policies that have forced thousands of America’s steelworkers out of jobs and have compelled Ohio steel mills to idle or close. Last week, the Trump Administration announced that the Commerce Department will launch an investigation into the impact of certain steel imports on national security. “Hardworking Americans are not concerned with political gamesmanship – they want results. Unfortunately unfair trade practices have hurt communities in Northeast Ohio and across the United States for decades. President Trump spoke at length about these inequities during the campaign, promising immediate action to level the playing field if elected. I will fight to ensure that President Trump keeps his word and that any future trade deals meet the high standards our workers deserve – just like I’ve done throughout my career,” said Ryan. “I’ve always stood up to Presidents of both parties to fight for better trade deals for Ohio,” said Brown. “And I’m going to hold this administration’s trade agenda to the same standard I’ve always used, no matter who was in the White House: does it put Ohio workers first? I’m ready to work with President Trump to deliver on his promises, or to hold him accountable if he doesn’t.” This month, Ryan introduced the Currency Reform For Fair Trade Act, which takes aim at currency manipulators by enabling the Department of Commerce to impose countervailing duties to offset the impact of currency manipulation on a U.S. industry. Currency manipulation is costing America jobs and this legislation provides the tools necessary to hold countries accountable for their illegal actions. Brown authored the Leveling the Playing Field Act, which he worked with U.S. Sen. Rob Portman (R-OH) to pass into law in 2015, in order to give Ohio companies more tools when fighting unfair trade practices by China and other countries. Brown has worked to support the U.S. aluminum extrusions industry, which has been harmed by unfair trade practices in the Chinese aluminum sector. Brown has written to the Commerce Department under Administrations of both parties to crack down on Chinese aluminum extruders’ circumvention efforts. Brown also pushed the Obama Administration to bring a World Trade Organization against China for its aluminum sector subsidies. The Obama Administration filed a case against China in January. Ryan and Brown were joined by workers from several Mahoning Valley steelworkers unions. Earlier this month, Brown and Portman applauded Commerce Department action against unfair oil country tubular good (OCTG) imports from Korea that affected American OCTG producers including Vallourec Star in Youngstown and Wheatland Tube in Warren. Following Brown and Portman’s urging, Commerce found that Korean steel producers have been unfairly dumping this imports into the U.S. market, leaving Ohio steelworkers and steel companies at a competitive disadvantage.
04.20.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today introduced the Federal Government Decentralization Commission Act. This legislation would establish a commission under the General Services Administration (GSA), headed by the Administrator of the GSA and 10 other members that would study the relocation of select executive agencies or divisions of agencies outside the Washington metropolitan area. The Commission would identify new potential locations that are in economically distressed areas, or areas with expertise in the mission and goal of the agency. The commission will take into account national security implications and will be required to produce an economic and workforce development study on how the relocation will impact the new location. “Our country should be proud of our capital city, and the role it plays in our history and the running of the federal government. But the Founding Fathers could not have imagined our current federal government system, with more than 300,000 federal workers in the Washington DC metropolitan area in 190 federally-owned buildings and 500 leased buildings. Our government belongs to all Americans, and communities across the United States should be able to benefit from the economic boost these employment centers could bring, especially to economically distressed places. The technology available to us today allows for seamless communication and collaboration regardless of geographic location, and is already allowing a web of federal offices and agencies across the US, such as the Center for Disease Control in Atlanta to perform their work without being inside the DC beltway. This is a common sense way to help cities like Cleveland or Detroit share in the economic development that comes from playing host to part of the federal government,” said Congressman Ryan.
04.20.2017	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan praised the release of $26 million in grant funds from the Department of Health and Human Services to help combat the opioid addiction crisis in Ohio. This funding, which is the first of two rounds provided from the 21st Century Cures Act, will be provided through the State Targeted Response to the Opioid Crisis Grants administered by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). The $485 million worth of aid will be distributed across all 50 states to help combat this ongoing crisis. “This funding is badly needed by countless families in my district, in Ohio, and across the United States. Not a day goes by where I am not reminded of the horrible suffering that this epidemic is inflicting on our neighbors, relatives, and friends. I was proud to fight for passage of this important legislation, as well as to include this aid for opioid addiction into the 21st Century CURES Act which passed with overwhelming bipartisan support. We will only be able to fight this crisis together, and this first wave of funding will help communities begin to push back against this horrible epidemic, and start rebuilding communities that are suffering,” said Congressman Ryan. The funding originates from the “21st Century CURES” Act, legislation passed in December 2016 that provided $1 billion over two years to fight the heroin and prescription drug epidemic. This aid supplements additional resources allocated through the Comprehensive Addiction & Recovery Act (CARA).
04.19.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan calls on to President Donald Trump to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services, Tom Price, to declare the opioid addiction crisis a Public Health Emergency. This authority is granted to Secretary Price under section 319 of the Public Health Service Act. Such a declaration would free up federal funds for communities struggling to cope with this ongoing addiction epidemic. Congressman Tim Ryan is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction Treatment and Recover Caucus and member of the Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, and ending the opioid and prescription drug epidemic remains one of his top priorities. “We lose 144 people every day to drug overdoses in the United States. Drug overdose deaths are now the number one cause of accidental death in our nation. In 2015, we lost over 52,000 Americans to this terrible epidemic. We can no longer turn a blind eye to the catastrophic nature of this ongoing crisis. That is why I call on [President Trump] to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to declare the opioid epidemic a Public Health Emergency,” wrote Congressman Ryan. Full letter can be viewed here. Rep. Ryan Legislative Actions: ·In the 114th Congress, Rep. Ryan joined Senator Portman, Senator Whitehouse, and Congressman Sensenbrenner in introducing the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), which leverages evidence-based law enforcement and health care services, including treatment that can be used to stop and reverse current trends. On July 22, 2016 CARA was signed into law. ·Rep. Ryan led a letter urging President Trump to include $9.3 billion in his Fiscal Year 2018 budget for 34 Administration programs at Department of Health and Human Services, Office of National Drug Control Policy and the Department of Justice. ·Rep. Ryan introduced the Stop Trafficking in Fentanyl Act – increase penalties for fentanyl trafficking ·Rep. Ryan introduced the STOP OD Act – which is designed to help stop synthetic drugs like fentanyl and carentanil from being shipped through our borders to drug traffickers in the United States ·Rep. Ryan introduced the Prescription Drug Monitoring Act – which takes important steps to bring states closer to fully interoperable Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs (PDMPs), to faster respond to inquiries and to better serve the public. ·In 114th Congress, Rep. Ryan joined Congresswoman Marcia Fudge in introducing the Breaking Addiction Act, which takes steps to increase access to treatment by making changes to the IMD exclusion for substance abuse facilities. Key Ohio and National Addiction Statistics: National Statistics: In 2015, drug overdose deaths continued to climb to more than 52,000; by comparison, 38,000 people died due to automobile accidents in 2015. Opioids were the main driver of overdose deaths, accounting for more than 33,000 fatalities. 144 individuals are lost on average every day in the U.S. to drug overdoses. In 2013, an estimated 22.7 million Americans needed treatment for a problem related to drugs or alcohol, but only about 2.5 million people (0.9 percent) received treatment at a specialty facility. Ohio Statistics: Since 2007, fatal drug overdoses have been the leading cause of accidental death in our state. Fatal drug overdoses now exceed motor vehicle crashes as the leading cause of accidental death in Ohio. In Trumbull County, there were 73 overdoses in January, 45 overdoses in February, and 189 overdoeses in March. In Summit County, we saw an 11.3 percent increase over 2015, with at least 225 deaths caused by drug overdoses in 2016. In 2014, Ohio led the nation with 2,106 opioid overdoses. Ohio is suffering from an increase in usage of lethal fentanyl and carfentanil.
04.19.2017	Youngstown, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan today announced a $187,000 project grant from the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) to Youngstown State University’s Flexible Hybrid Electronics Manufacturing Equipment Project. This project will equip a lab at Youngstown State University with state-of-the-art equipment to demonstrate and teach advanced techniques for using flexible automation (particularly co-robotics) to assist both traditional board-level electronics manufacturers as well as the integration of electronics into both conventional and hybrid 3D printed structures. Approximately 50 students will use the lab each semester. The Appalachian Regional Commission is an economic development agency of the federal government and 13 state governments focusing on 420 counties across the Appalachian region. ARC’s mission is to innovate, partner, and invest to build community capacity and strengthen economic growth in Appalachia and help the region achieve socioeconomic parity with the nation. “Once more, Youngstown and the Greater Mahoning Valley is benefiting from the important development work that the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) facilitates. The support of the ARC will help to allow dozens of students each semester become fluent in advanced technologies that will be the engine of future economic growth. Not only is this investment good for our local community, but it is good for our national economy. I cannot understate the importance of these types of investments, as well as the commissions that make them possible. That is why I will do everything in my power in Congress to fight President Trump’s proposed budget, which would eliminate the ARC entirely. The money invested through the ARC is not money wasted, it supports vital projects in communities that need it most,” said Congressman Ryan.
04.18.2017	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan today responded to reports from the Chicago Sun Times that the Trump Administration is planning to close the Chicago-based Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Region 5 office and consolidating it with Region 7 in Kansas. The Region 5 office has responsibility for local and state matters in Ohio as well as Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Wisconsin, and Minnesota. The office also oversees the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. “Reports in the Chicago Sun Times suggesting that the Trump Administration is considering shuttering the EPA Region 5 office are deeply concerning. President Trump’s request to zero out funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative in his first budget proposal were bad enough, now he’s adding insult to injury by potentially eliminating the very office tasked with managing the program. The Great Lakes are a vital resource and strategic advantage and it’s critical that we do everything in our power to safeguard their health and well-being. Lake Erie alone supports more than 117,000 full time jobs and provides clean drinking water to approximately 3 million Ohioans. I hope these reports are false, but if they are true, I will do everything in my power to stop this attack on the Midwest and the Great Lakes region,” said Congressman Ryan. Congressman Tim Ryan authored legislation to require the EPA to appoint a coordinator to address the issue of harmful algal blooms in the Great Lakes. The legislation passed the House of Representatives in April of 2016. Congressman Ryan was joined by a bipartisan group of members, including: Representatives Marcy Kaptur (D-OH-9), Marcia Fudge (D-OH-11), Jim Renacci (R-OH-16), David Joyce (R-OH-14), Joyce Beatty (D-OH-3), Peter Visclosky (D-ID-1), Chris Collins (R-NY-27).
04.13.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to President Trump’s recent comments on U.S. – China relations. “President Trump’s about-face on U.S. – China policy is yet another example of his continued inability to advance a consistent trade policy. China spent decades manipulating their currency, refusing to meet World Trade Organization obligations, stealing U.S. intellectual property, giving illegal subsidies, and engaging in predatory trade action. While China may not currently be devaluing their currency, that shouldn’t be an excuse for President Trump to let China off the hook. There are still many trade issues we have to press China on, and we need to have the tools and ability to handle currency manipulation should it arise again,” said Congressman Ryan. “On the campaign trail, Donald Trump loved telling us how tough he would be on China, and many of my constituents believed him, but since taking office he hasn’t taken a single action to stand up to them. President Trump’s weakness on U.S. – China relations and lack of a coherent trade policy will result in more job losses in communities like mine all across the country who cannot compete fairly with Chinese companies who do not have to abide by the environmental and labor standards we have in the US. We have the most innovative and productive workers in the world, but we need concrete, enforceable trade policies to compete on a level playing field.” Last week Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH), Sander Levin (D-MI), and Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) introduced the Currency Reform For Fair Trade Act. This bill takes aim at currency manipulators by enabling the Department of Commerce to impose countervailing duties to offset the impact of currency manipulation on a U.S. industry. The three members sent a letter to President Trump in February urging him to go beyond executive action and support this legislation so that U.S. manufacturers will have the confidence needed to invest in the United States. Congressman Ryan also joined a group of 90 Members of the House of Representatives in writing to President Trump, demanding that he fix the failed policies on trade with China. Throughout his campaign and his first months in office, President Trump pledged to the American people that he would correct our China trade policy and declared that this was essential to delivering on two other promises—to reduce our massive trade deficit and to ‘bring back’ American manufacturing jobs. However, the President has yet to act on these critical issues.
04.07.2017	Washington, DC -- Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to U.S. airstrikes against Syria. "The U.S. military strike against Syria affirms that our nation will not stand by while international law is broken by the use of chemical weapons against innocent men, women, and children. Assad's sinister attack against his own people was a crime against humanity and it is clear that Russia and Iran share responsibility for these war crimes by continuing to militarily support the Assad regime. "As a member of the Defense Appropriations Committee, I anticipate receiving a comprehensive intelligence briefing regarding this offensive. But while I support last night’s actions, any long-term operation must take place in consultation with Congress. President Trump must finally settle on Syrian policy and provide Congress and the American people with a clear and comprehensive strategy on how to work with our allies to end the Syrian civil war, remove Assad from power, and restore human rights and stability to the region. "Finally, I want to thank the brave men and women of the U.S. Military who carried out these orders with such a high level of dedication and professionalism. I’ve been honored to spend time with our troops in the region, and can say with confidence they are the best of America."
04.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH), Sander Levin (D-MI), and Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) introduced the Currency Reform For Fair Trade Act. This bill takes aim at currency manipulators by enabling the Department of Commerce to impose countervailing duties to offset the impact of currency manipulation on a U.S. industry. "Currency manipulation is costing America jobs and it is time to hold China and other countries accountable for their illegal actions," said Rep. Ryan. "We have the most innovative and productive workers in the world, but we need a level playing field if we want to remain competitive. As President Trump meets with Chinese President Xi today, I call on him to remember the promises he made on the campaign trail and get serious about currency manipulation. This legislation is an important step to ensure American manufacturing can thrive and sends a strong message to foreign governments who manipulate their currencies at the expense of our workers." "While President Trump sounded tough on trade during his campaign, his presidency has been full of broken promises," said Rep. Pascrell. "Today we are calling on President Trump to fulfill his promise to address currency manipulation by supporting our legislation. This bill provides a targeted remedy to American manufacturers and workers that are harmed by countries that play against the rules by depressing the values of their currency. It's past time to provide relief to Americans that play by the rules and it's past time for President Trump to take meaningful action on this issue." "During the campaign the President repeatedly declared that he would name China a 'currency manipulator' on day one," said Rep. Levin. "Day one has come and passed, and he has failed to do anything meaningful to give the American people the new trade policy they demanded during the campaign. Rather than bombastic rhetoric, we have a better approach. This bill takes aim at currency manipulators by enabling the Department of Commerce to impose countervailing duties to offset the impact of currency manipulation on a U.S. industry. It complements our support for enforceable currency provisions in our trade agreements and prepares the U.S. for any future currency manipulation which have been shown to have such a devastating impact on US jobs." The three members also sent a letter to President Trump in February urging him to go beyond executive action and support this legislation so that U.S. manufacturers will have the confidence needed to invest in the United States (letter).
04.06.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement upon hearing the news of the passing of Valley icon and veteran WFMJ news anchor Bob Black at the age of 68. Bob is survived by his wife Colleen, whom he married in 1971, his brother Scott of Stoneboro, Pa., as well as two daughters, Lindsay of Kittanning, Pa., and Molly of Greensburg, Pa. “Bob Black was a premiere journalist and news anchor. He was a gentleman and a class act. I met Bob during my first campaign for Congress. No matter how hot an issue became or how negative a campaign got, Bob always conducted himself with class and professionalism. He walked our Valley though some of our most heartbreaking events. He was like family for many of us, and he leaves a large legacy for future journalists to try to match. Andrea and I send our deepest sympathy to Bob’s family, friends, and colleagues in this difficult time. Bob lived a life of purpose, and I will always cherish our friendship and the time we spent together,” said Congressman Ryan.
04.06.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan joined with 90 of his House Democratic colleagues to call on President Trump to fix failed trade policies with China. Throughout his campaign and his first months in office, President Trump pledged to the American people that he would correct our China trade policy and declared that this was essential to delivering on two other promises—to reduce our massive trade deficit and to ‘bring back’ American manufacturing jobs. However, the President has yet to act on these critical issues that are so important to the state of Ohio and our nation as a whole. “Throughout your campaign, you promised a get-tough-on-China trade policy and pledged to declare China a currency manipulator on your first day in office. You reiterated that pledge ‘to protect American workers’ in your ‘Contract with the American Voter,’ stating that on your first day in office: ‘I will direct my Secretary of the Treasury to label China a currency manipulator,’” wrote the Members. “However, on February 23, Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin explicitly stated that the Administration was not ready to make any such declaration. The same day, you told a group of manufacturing Chief Executive Officers visiting the White House that you would take strong action to combat China’s ‘$500 billion’ trade deficit with the United States. In addition, on February 24, you stated that China was the ‘grand champion’ at manipulating its currency.” The Members also called out President Trump for not indicating his plans with respect to the United States-China Bilateral Investment Agreement (BIT). The BIT would replicate key aspects of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), two agreements that President Trump castigated as damaging to American workers and the economy. Further, the BIT would include the investor protections found in NAFTA and the TPP that make it easier to offshore American jobs, and it would give Chinese firms, including state-owned enterprises, broader rights to purchase U.S. firms, land, and other assets. The BIT would make current China trade issues significantly worse. The full letter is available here.
04.05.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to chemical attack in Syria. The attack was carried out near Khan Sheikhoun, a town in rebel held territory in Northern Syria. At least 70 individuals were killed, many of whom were women and children. “The gassing of innocent civilians with chemical weapons is a crime against humanity and a blatant violation of international law. Once again, the Assad regime’s butchery has left the civilized world in a state of disbelief. As a member of congress, I expect a comprehensive intelligence briefing on this occurrence from the Administration as soon as possible, and urge President Trump and Secretary Tillerson to speak out boldly against this terrible act. We cannot allow the use of these sinister weapons to become commonplace,” said Congressman Ryan.
04.04.2017	Washington, DC –Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Evan Jenkins (R-W.Va.) introduced a bipartisan bill on Monday to help improve prescription drug monitoring programs and reduce opioid abuse. The Prescription Drug Monitoring Act would push states to enhance their use of prescription drug monitoring programs, a powerful tool to prevent opioid abuse. While most states have a monitoring program, they vary widely in how they are used and operated. The legislation would focus federal resources on improving the state monitoring programs’ effectiveness. States would provide access to their prescription drug monitoring program data to other states, prescribers would check the database before prescribing powerful medications like opioids, and pharmacies would submit prescribing information within 24 hours. This is the House companion to S. 778, the Prescription Drug Monitoring Act, introduced in the U.S. Senate by Sens. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and Rob Portman (R-Ohio). “Elected officials at every level of government have an obligation to fight the growing opioid addiction epidemic in our country. No effort is too small as it relates to helping struggling families and communities get the resources they need to confront this crisis. In this broad, multi-faceted approach, prescription drug monitoring programs (PDMPs) are an important tool at our disposal. That is why I am proud to support the Prescription Drug Monitoring Act, which will help keep millions of patients safe who use non-opioid medication. This bill will give doctors a better look at medications a patient is taking to ensure that any additional prescriptions will not adversely impact patients’ health,” Rep. Ryan said. “Opioid abuse affects countless families and virtually every community across West Virginia, and it often starts with the misuse and abuse of prescription pills. By widely implementing prescription drug monitoring programs, we can help prevent overprescribing and doctor shopping – two activities that fuel the drug crisis. I would like to thank Congressman Tim Ryan and Senators Klobuchar and Portman for their efforts on this important legislation. Stopping the opioid crisis is a top priority – by working together, we can find solutions to combat the drug crisis and help people live healthier, drug-free lives,” Rep. Jenkins said. “As a former prosecutor, I have witnessed firsthand the devastation caused by opioid abuse in communities across the country. Our bipartisan legislation would require states to have prescription drug monitoring programs that use best practices, curbing the kind of doctor shopping that facilitates addiction. Last year, I heard about a patient who filled 108 prescriptions for painkillers from more than 85 different prescribers located in 50 cities. We know that opioid addiction too often begins with the abuse of legal prescription painkillers. And with this bill, we can do something about that. I look forward to working with Representatives Jenkins and Ryan to move our legislation forward,” Sen. Klobuchar said. “Four out of five heroin addicts in Ohio and across the country started with prescription painkillers. Too many of these people were prescribed a painkiller by their doctor and became addicted or tried a drug prescribed to someone else. In 2012, there were more opioid prescriptions in Ohio than there were Ohioans, and during just one three-month period, 11 percent of Ohioans were prescribed an opioid painkiller. Since then we’ve made progress in stopping overprescribing, but the consequences of addiction have only gotten worse. This legislation would help our country continue to make progress against overprescribing by keeping better track of prescriptions and ensuring that addiction is discovered and treated as early as possible,” Sen. Portman said.
04.04.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today released the following statement on President Trump halting U.S. funds to the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). The UNFPA, like other UN agencies, is funded by governments around the world voluntarily. In 2015, the UNFPA received $979 million in donations, with the US being its fourth-largest donor. “The United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) is responsible for administering critical and lifesaving prenatal care and family planning services to tens of thousands of women in more than 150 countries across the globe – including some of the poorest and most volatile. President Trump’s decision to withhold this funding will result in preventable death and suffering among the world’s most vulnerable. I call on the Trump Administration to reverse this disastrous decision,” said Congressman Ryan. Funding was withheld through a Trump Administration determination stating the UNFPA violates a provision of law, known as the Kemp-Kasten amendment, which prohibits U.S. funding for organizations that support or participate in coercive abortion or involuntary sterilization. But there is no evidence to uphold those claims and the UNFPA rigorously monitors project sites to ensure compliance with international standards of voluntarism and informed choice. Congressman Tim Ryan offered an amendment to last year’s State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Bill to increase funding to United Nations Prenatal Care and Family Planning Services. It was defeated 20 yeas to 29 nays.
04.03.2017	Washington, DC – Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA) today introduced the Chronic Absenteeism Reduction Act. Chronic absenteeism is defined as missing ten percent or more of the school year and has been found to negatively impact school performance, high school graduation rates, and overall student success into adulthood. The Department of Education’s Office of Civil Rights and Data Collection found that over 6.8 million students were chronically absent during the 2013-2014 school year. This makes up 14 percent of the total student population and is especially concerning since students who are chronically absent are 68 percent less likely than other students to graduate high school. There is no single cause of chronic absenteeism. The Chronic Absenteeism Reduction Act allows for schools to tailor solutions based on why individual or groups of students continue to be absent. “Every child growing up in the United States deserves a quality education. It is our job as elected officials to give our kids the access and resources needed to receive the education they have been promised. Through education, our children have a shot at a better life for themselves and their families. But we must make sure local educators and policy makers are given the tools they need to track and confront the issue of chronic absenteeism so that they can maximize success for their students. This legislation is just the first-step, but it is critical to helping put an end to chronic absenteeism and allowing our students to reach their highest potential,” said Rep. Tim Ryan. “Empowering students with quality education is so important to their success, and we should identify and eliminate obstacles to achieving that goal,” said Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler. “Unfortunately, Washington state has the most public school districts that face chronic absenteeism in the U.S. I’m pleased to help offer this solution that empowers educators at the local level with tools and support to address factors that are leading to kids in Southwest Washington missing school.” “Chronic absenteeism is a critical predictor of negative future academic and social outcomes for students and an indicator of a need for increased support. When schools and communities take a coordinated and comprehensive approach to increasing student attendance by supporting young people through positive interventions including mentoring relationships, we see success. Mentoring is proven to help students form healthy relationships, improve self-confidence and drives improved school attendance. We thank Representatives Ryan and Herrera Beutler for elevating the value of creating school environments that systemically intervene to support young people who need it most and where those young people are bolstered with the relationships they need to thrive and strive,” said David Shapiro, CEO, MENTOR: The National Mentoring Partnership. “The National Network of State Teachers of the Year knows that chronic student absenteeism is a serious challenge in our nation’s schools -- disproportionately affecting students of color and diminishing prospects for success in later life. We salute Representatives Ryan and Herrera Beutler for the strategic approach to tackling this persistent problem, particularly the call for the development of mentoring programs. We know from experience that these programs work,” said Katherine Bassett, President and CEO, NNSTOY. The Chronic Absenteeism Reduction Act extends the allowable use of funds of Title IV-A block grants to allow schools the flexibility to invest in getting students to engage in academic programs before having to invest in enriching those programs. Half of the students who are chronically absent are concentrated in four percent of the nation’s school districts. This bill allows schools to enact attendance programs that cater to their local needs by authorizing existing funds for schools to develop and implement effective strategies to combat chronic absence in schools by installing attendance data collection and analysis systems, partnering with local health, transportation and social service provider, and implementing school-based mentoring programs. Real time data collection and analysis tools allow educators to track and identify attendance issues and monitor if progress is being made. Simple interventions such as alerting parents about their child’s missed assignments have been shown to increase attendance by 17 percent. The Chronic Absenteeism Reduction Act allows school districts to improve their attendance tracking systems. As a result, this data can be shared at the individual level with students, families, teachers, and principals to encourage immediate interventions, and at the aggregate level with district leadership, policymakers, community partners, and the general public to raise awareness and increase accountability. By partnering with local health, transportation and social service providers, school officials will be better equipped to address unique causes of student absence. In New York, local task forces were able to create conditions that made targeted students 31 percent less likely to be chronically absent. The Chronic Absenteeism Reduction Act provides states the ability to combat chronic absence in schools by training and implementing school-based mentoring programs. The presence of a consistent caring adult can be the key to instilling a regular attendance routine, and studies show that students who regularly meet with mentors are 52 percent less likely than their peers to skip a day of school. Schools will be able to utilize school personnel, partner with community organizations, or set up peer to peer mentoring models depending on what local school districts determine to be most impactful. This legislation has been endorsed by: The Coalition for Juvenile Justice, AASA: School Superintendents Association, National Council for Behavioral Health, MENTOR: The National Mentoring Partnership, Committee for Children, CASEL: Collaborative for Academic, Social, Emotional Learning, NNSTOY: National Network of State Teachers of the Year, Afterschool Alliance, ASCA: American School Counselor Association, Campaign for Youth Justice, Healthy Schools Campaign, Alliance for Excellent Education, NAESP: National Association of Elementary School Principals, Center for Supportive Schools, Communities in Schools and Spark.
03.31.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today released the following statement after President Trump’s signing of two executive orders on US Trade policy. His first order instructs his administration to examine the causes of US trade deficits with China and other major trading partners and report back to him within 90 days with possible actions to reduce these gaps. The second order directs the Administration to enforce penalties against countries that break trade rules to gain an unfair advantage. “Unfair trade practices have hurt communities in Northeast Ohio and across the US for decades. President Trump spoke at length about these inequities during the campaign, promising immediate action to level the playing field if elected. But now that he sits in the Oval Office he’s opted for theatric signings of executive orders that do very little, instead of the doing the bold action he promised like declaring China a currency manipulator on day one or looking at ways to fix NAFTA. The Administration’s actions should represent a genuine desire to establish a new rulebook for trade, and not just a halfhearted attempt to change the subject while maintaining the status quo. While efforts to collect the $2.8 billion in unpaid trade penalties should be encouraged, we lose that much every three days to our trade deficit with China, so that is no substitute for a reformed approach to trade that benefits all Americans. I will be watching President Trump’s future actions following this report very closely to make sure he is serious about confronting this important issue, and I will continue to fight for the men and women in my district who need a voice in these trade negotiations .”
03.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – A bipartisan group of House Members and Senators today introduced the Make it in America Manufacturing Communities Act, legislation that would help revitalize the country’s manufacturing sector and help create good-paying manufacturing jobs throughout the country. The bill was introduced in the house by U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH), Congressman David N. Cicilline (D-RI), Congressman Tom Reed (R-NY), and Congresswoman Claudia Tenney (R-NY), and was introduced in the Senate by U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Senator Jerry Moran (R-KS), Senator Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Senator Angus King (I-ME), and Senator Susan Collins (R-ME). The bipartisan Make it in America Manufacturing Communities Act would codify into law a successful program, the Investing in Manufacturing Communities Partnership (IMCP), started by the Obama Administration, which allows communities around the country to compete to receive preferential consideration for federal economic development funds. 24 communities around the country have already been designated “Manufacturing Communities” and have received targeted investment and support to make their regions more competitive. The program’s future is uncertain without authorizing legislation, but this bipartisan bill would make it permanent so that more communities around the country can compete for this designation. “Public-private partnerships are critical to a strong manufacturing sector and I am proud to support this legislation that would allow our communities to foster and grow these important relationships. As someone who grew up in Northeast Ohio, I have seen firsthand how manufacturing is the back-bone of the American economy, and it is our duty as leaders to ensure that we not only protect these jobs, but increase the opportunities for the next generation. As our economy continues to grow and modernize, manufacturing can no longer be viewed as the jobs of the past, but also the careers of future,” said Congressman Ryan (OH-13). “Good-paying jobs in manufacturing built Rhode Island’s middle class. It’s time we reclaim our identity as a leading center of American manufacturing and innovation. Let’s start making things in Rhode Island and America once again,” said Congressman Cicilline (RI-1). “I’m proud to reintroduce the bipartisan Make it in America Manufacturing Communities Act. This bill will help Rhode Island better compete for federal funding to grow manufacturing jobs and strengthen our local economy. Let’s keep Rhode Island moving forward.” “I care about working in a bipartisan manner so that we can create jobs here at home. We have to work together to make sure American manufacturers stay competitive. This is done by encouraging different levels of government to work with businesses and education leaders to help manufacturers succeed,” said Congressman Reed (NY-23). “Upstate New York has a rich history of manufacturing products used around the world. Iconic companies including Remington Arms, IBM and Oneida Limited were all founded in the heart of my district. However, New York has struggled from manufacturing job loss in recent decades,” said Congresswoman Tenney (NY-22). “As the owner of a small manufacturing facility, I understand the importance of public support and the impact it can have on local job creators. Partnerships created by this legislation will ensure that our local economies thrive by giving job creators the opportunity to become competitive and lead in their industries.” “New York has the best manufacturing workforce in the country, but too many good-paying manufacturing jobs have left our state,” said Senator Gillibrand. “We need to do everything we can to keep good-paying manufacturing jobs in New York and bring back the good-paying jobs that have already left. I am proud to introduce this bipartisan bill, and I will continue to do everything I can to fight for New York’s manufacturing workers.” “With eight West Virginia counties participating in the Investing in Manufacturing Communities Partnership, this legislation will help strengthen and support the manufacturing industry in the Mountain State. One such example has been in Weirton, West Virginia, where a welding company received financial assistance to help expand and renovate their property. I am glad to join with my House and Senate colleagues to introduce legislation that will help strengthen our manufacturing sector and promote needed job growth in West Virginia,” said Senator Capito. Senator Richard Blumenthal added, “Our bipartisan bill will give Connecticut a competitive edge as it seeks federal funding to create manufacturing jobs and boost the local economy. Connecticut, with its thriving aerospace and shipbuilding industry, is a true manufacturing leader. By offering federal guidance, strong educational partnerships, and new funding opportunities, this bill will help ensure that this vital manufacturing community continues to expand and innovate. Manufacturing is the backbone of our economy, and I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass this promising legislation.” This legislation encourages a regionally-driven approach to strengthening the manufacturing industry. To compete for funding through this program and earn the “Manufacturing Communities” designation, communities would create regional partnerships with key stakeholders such as local and state economic development officials, local governments, manufacturers, labor organizations, and higher education or other training providers. In order to earn the Manufacturing Communities designation, communities would demonstrate the significance of manufacturing in their region and develop strategies to utilize their “Manufacturing Communities” designation in making investments in six areas: Workforce training and retraining; Advanced research; Infrastructure and site development; Supply chain support; Promotion of exports and foreign direct investment; and Operational improvement and capital access for manufacturers that supports energy or process efficiency, equipment or facility upgrades, the development of business incubators, among other activities. Today’s announcement follows years of work by the House Members and Senators to strengthen American manufacturing.
03.29.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today responded to President Trump's Executive Actions to combat the ongoing heroin and opioid addiction crisis. This action would establish a commission tasked with identifying federal funding streams that could be directed to address the epidemic, and to develop a formal recommendation for the best path forward to combat this ongoing public health emergency. “Opioid addition has plunged communities across Ohio and the country into crisis. Each and every member of Congress should be laser focused on getting localities the resources they need to support prevention and recovery. That urgency must extend to the executive branch as well, and while I am heartened to see President Trump giving addiction the attention it deserves, as Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment, and Recovery Caucus I am gravely concerned that the executive action he announced today will be entirely inadequate to address this serious problem. What we need more than commissions is money for our local communities,” said Congressman Ryan. “If President Trump is serious about fighting addiction, he should work to strengthen the Affordable Care Act, which is responsible for covering over 220,000 Ohioans alone who are suffering from substance abuse or mental health disorders. President Trump’s failed healthcare plan would have pulled the rug out from these men and women and made it more difficult for them to access care for treatment and recovery. The President should also enthusiastically support the request of $9.4 billion for the 34 key Administrative programs that create a comprehensive response through prevention, treatment, recovery and law enforcement to help combat heroin and prescription drug addiction. While he talked a lot during the campaign about the need to help people struggling from addiction, he has not yet even nominated a new Director of the Office for National Drug Control Policy, which will be tasked with supporting his own commission. I stand ready to work with the Administration and my colleagues on either side of the aisle to get resources to combat this crisis to areas of the country that need it most.” Key Ohio and National Addiction Statistics: National Statistics: In 2015, drug overdose deaths continued to climb to more than 52,000; by comparison, 38,000 people died due to automobile accidents in 2015. Opioids were the main driver of overdose deaths, accounting for more than 33,000 fatalities. 144 individuals are lost on average every day in the U.S. to drug overdoses. In 2013, an estimated 22.7 million Americans needed treatment for a problem related to drugs or alcohol, but only about 2.5 million people (0.9 percent) received treatment at a specialty facility. Ohio Statistics: Since 2007, fatal drug overdoses have been the leading cause of accidental death in our state. Fatal drug overdoses now exceed motor vehicle crashes as the leading cause of accidental death in Ohio. In Trumbull County, there were 73 overdoses in January, 45 overdoses in February, and 82 overdoses already in March. In Summit County, we saw an 11.3 percent increase over 2015, with at least 225 deaths caused by drug overdoses in 2016. In 2014, Ohio led the nation with 2,106 opioid overdoses. Ohio is suffering from an increase in usage of lethal fentanyl and carfentanil.
03.28.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today voted against S.J.Res. 34, which overturned the Federal Communication Commission’s (FCC) “Protecting the Privacy of Customers of Broadband and Other Telecommunications Service” rule. This rule ensured the privacy of consumers by requiring customer consent before Internet Service Providers (ISPs) could use, share, or sell a customer’s personal information, including personal internet browsing histories. “The right to privacy is a fundamental principle in our democracy. No American should be expected to surrender their privacy when using the internet. Today, Republicans in the House voted to allow corporations to collect your most intimate data – geolocation, browser history, medical information, and more – and sell it to other corporations without obtaining permission from the user. I believe this is a gross invasion of privacy and strongly voted against this invasive legislation,” said Congressman Ryan. House Republicans brought this Joint Resolution to the Floor under the Congressional Review Act (CRA) in order to bypass the sixty-vote filibuster threshold in the Senate and block any substantially similar future regulation. In October 2016, the FCC adopted new privacy and consumer data security rules requiring ISPs to safeguard Americans’ personal information when they go online. This rule was just rejected by GOP leadership. There are three main components of these rule. ISPs must clearly ask for their customers’ permission to collect and share sensitive personal data collected over the network – including internet browsing history, email content, and app usage – with advertisers and other third parties; ISPs would need to take “reasonable measures” to secure consumers’ usage and personal information; and ISPs must notify customers within 30 days if hackers breach the system and if more than 5,000 customers are impacted. They must notify the FBI, Secret Service, and FCC within 7 days of the breach.
03.28.2017	Washington, DC – Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH), Patrick Tiberi (R-OH), Anna Eshoo (D-CA) and Barbara Comstock (R-VA) announce the founding of the bipartisan Congressional Microbusiness Caucus. The Small Business Administration considers microbusinesses to be any firm with one to nine employees. There are 3.7 million microbusinesses in the United States, providing 10.8 percent of private –sector jobs and making up 75.3 percent of all private-sector employers. The purpose of the Congressional Microbusiness Caucus is to define and elevate the narrative of microbusinesses in Congress and provide a forum for micro business owners to have constructive conversations about obstacles and regulatory barriers preventing entrepreneurs from starting and scaling their business in the United States. The Caucus seeks to empower U.S. microbusinesses in an effort to strengthen competitiveness, foster economic growth, and promote entrepreneurship in America by holding briefings and other events to facilitate discussion on relevant issues. The founding co-chairs of the Congressional Microbusiness Caucus are Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH), Patrick Tiberi (R-OH), Anna Eshoo (D-CA) and Barbara Comstock (R-VA). “Technological and entrepreneurial innovation is accelerating at an unbelievable rate, and even though there are immense challenges ahead of us to ensure that our country works in a way that benefits everyone, this is an exciting time to be a participant in the American economy. The very nature of work is changing, and microbusinesses are a driving force behind that. Congress must stand ready to rapidly respond to the needs of workers and employees of micro businesses. Our economy will be stronger for it,” said Rep. Ryan. “Microbusinesses are today’s mom and pop shops with an even greater potential for success thanks to advancements in technology. It is remarkable that with a click of a mouse or on a smart phone, a one-person business can potentially reach millions of customers across the country and globe,” said Rep. Tiberi. “We must ensure that burdensome government regulations and other barriers to growth aren’t holding them back. I look forward to working with my colleagues on this caucus to advance solutions to empower our microbusinesses and entrepreneurs to succeed and contribute to a thriving economy.” “This new bipartisan Microbusiness Caucus will provide entrepreneurs with a platform for their voices to be heard in Washington,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Microbusinesses are becoming a critical piece of our national economy’s backbone, constantly creating new jobs and fostering innovation. While this new business paradigm brings its own set of policy implications and challenges, the Caucus will help navigate those challenges and allow businesses to thrive and promote economic growth.” “I am pleased to join with my colleagues in the formation of the Congressional Microbusiness Caucus where we will work together on commonsense policies that provide small start-ups and innovative initiatives the opportunity to begin, thrive, and grow. We know that women comprise about one-third of business owners so this is also a way to expand opportunities for women business owners. It is critical that we forge policies where small business owners can develop and boost our economy and create new jobs to provide opportunity throughout all of our communities. We can be a hub for initiatives to allow our entrepreneurs to have a voice for commonsense policies for microbusinesses,” said Rep. Comstock.
03.28.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan offered a rebuke to President Donald Trump’s climate regulation speech today at the EPA. In this speech, the President announced his intention to roll back most of President Obama’s legacy on protecting our air and water for future generations. “President Trump’s recent executive actions continue to ignore the massive economic boon that transitioning to a clean-energy economy would bring. In Ohio alone over 100,000 jobs are supported by the clean energy sector, and that number is growing fast – by a rate of 4.9 percent. President Trump needs to stop lying to the American people about how this harmful executive order will impact our job market, and work on ways get coal miners back to work building a new, clean economy,” said Congressman Ryan. Clean Energy Jobs in Ohio and the Midwest [Clean Jobs Midwest Survey]: Some 568,97 workers are currently employed in “clean jobs” across 12 Midwestern states. These jobs are in renewable energy generation, clean transmission, energy efficiency, clean fuels, and advanced transportation. In the next 12 months, the region’s clean energy employers project a growth rate of about 4.4 percent, for an additional 25,000 jobs. For employers in the Midwest, finding trained workers has been challenging – about 80 percent of employers surveyed reported hiring difficulty over the past year. Almost a third found hiring “very difficult,” and oft-reported reasons included: lack of experience, training, and technical skills; insufficient qualifications; and a lack of soft skills.
03.24.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today released the following statement in response to the announcement that the Trumpcare Bill was pulled from consideration. “This is a victory for the American people. This bill would have devastated hard working Americans and their families. Trumpcare was an absolute betrayal of everything we stand for as Americans and was a cynical legislative attempt to solve a political problem. Republican Leadership and the Trump Administration should be ashamed to have even tried to sell this plan to the American people. Now is the time for Republicans to sit down with us and work on making sure our health care system covers everyone in the country at an affordable price, and that we maintain our standing as the leader in the world in health care technology and advances."
03.21.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement today regarding the ongoing confirmation hearings of Neil Gorsuch. “These confirmation hearings have served to reinforce what we already knew: Judge Gorsuch would be a Supreme Court justice willing to fight for corporations’ rights as a ‘person,’ but not for the rights of workers to collectively bargain and earn a living wage. He would fight to uphold Citizens United and allow an unlimited flow of money into our political system, but not for a loving same-sex couple to join together in marriage. President Trump balked at the opportunity to nominate a consensus candidate, and instead chose someone whose jurisprudence is even farther to the right of the late Justice Scalia. To add insult to injury, this nomination was only possible due to the historically brash Republican obstruction to the President Obama’s eminently qualified selection of Judge Merrick Garland. I would urge my colleagues in the Senate to reject the nomination of Judge Gorsuch, and ask that President Trump nominate a more suitable candidate who will defend America’s workers and vulnerable populations.”
03.20.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today released the following statement in response to FBI director James Comey’s confirmation of an ongoing investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 Presidential Election, including possible collusion between the Donald Trump for President Campaign and Russian officials. “Free and fair elections are the backbone of our democracy. No matter our partisan disagreements, we’ve always known that when we go to the polls our voice, and our votes, mattered. That is why the revelation of Russian interference in the 2016 election was so unsettling. Officials from President Trump’s campaign have been shown to have had sustained and repeated communications with officials from the Russian government. In light of the seriousness of a foreign adversary attempting to influence our domestic politics combined with President Trump’s own financial entanglements and refusal to offer up explanations for the contact that he and his team had with Russia, it is clear that the open investigation into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russian intelligence officials confirmed by FBI Director James Comey is appropriate and necessary,” said Congressman Ryan.
03.16.2017	“While the President’s budget proposal is only the first step in a long process, this initial budget would be a ruinous path for the United States. With little regard for the communities it would impact, the Trump Administration would slash funding to important federal spending such as affordable housing programs and the Community Development Block Grant program, which assists local and state governments with programs like Meals on Wheels and infrastructure improvements. His budget would even eliminate the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grants, which have benefited Northeast Ohio as recently as last year, when Akron was awarded $5 million to complete its downtown promenade. President Trump’s budget would also completely eliminate the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which would have a devastating impact here in Ohio,” said Congressman Ryan. “When you really look at it, this budget is nothing more than a laundry list of broken promises. After promising to help develop urban centers, he cuts the Department of Housing and Urban Development by 13 percent. After promising clear air and water for all American’s in his joint address to Congress, he obliterates the Environmental Protection Agency’s budget by 31 percent. And after pledging time and time again to be the champion of the American worker, he guts the Department of Labor by 21 percent, whose job it is to ensure workers are safe in the workplace and receive the pay and benefits they have earned. President Trump’s brazen and indiscriminate cuts leave hardworking Americans worse off, while wasting billions on a an ineffective border wall that will not leave us any safer than before. I cannot accept that. This budget is a nonstarter, and I stand ready to get to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle on a realistic budget that properly funds these important programs, and gets Americans back to work.”
03.14.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) today reacted to the release of a Congressional Budget Office (CBO) report that the GOP healthcare bill would leave over 52 million Americans uninsured, and would cause over 24 million people to lose their insurance by 2026, 14 million of those within the next year. “This non-partisan report proves that Trumpcare will rip healthcare away from 24 million Americans, and leave 52 million without any insurance. This is perhaps the most brazen example yet of President Trump telling voters one thing, and then doing something different. Voters in my state did not cast their ballots to inflict this harm on millions of their fellow neighbors. Donald Trump and Congressional Republicans may think that the number of Americans covered is beside the point. I say it is exactly the point. These are real people. These are mothers and fathers, sons and daughters who get sick and want nothing more than to see their family member get better. Donald Trump and Congressional Republicans should be ashamed of themselves for even introducing this dangerous legislation. The number one priority for any national healthcare policy should be how to cover more people and how to improve the coverage they receive. Trumpcare does neither and is moving us in the wrong direction,” said Congressman Ryan.
03.13.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan marks ten years having passed since U.S. Air Force Reserve Major Karl Hoerig, a veteran with nearly 200 combat missions over Iraq and Afghanistan under his belt, was found fatally shot in his home on March 12, 2007. The primary suspect, who has also been charged with the murder, is Claudia Hoerig, his wife at the time. She fled the US and is currently avoiding justice in her native country of Brazil. “This weekend will mark ten years since Major Karl Hoerig had his life cut short. Karl bravely served our nation, with nearly 200 combat missions in Iraq and Afghanistan under his belt – we owe it to him to ensure that his killer, Claudia Hoerig, stands trial for her heinous crime,” said Congressman Ryan. “As we remember Karl Hoerig’s life now ten years later, I remain as committed as ever to making sure that Claudia Hoerig is returned to the United States to face justice.” On July 31, 2013, Brazil revoked Claudia Hoerig’s citizenship —the first step in the process of extraditing her to the United States to stand trial. The announcement came shortly after legislative efforts by Congressman Ryan garnered international attention to the case. Until this point, Brazil’s refusal to extradite any of its own citizens was the main barrier towards extraditing Claudia. Congressman Ryan petitioned Brazil to revoke Claudia’s citizenship so the extradition could move forward. Last April, Brazil’s Supreme Court justices ruled by a majority of three to two to uphold the Brazilian Ministry of Justice’s administrative decision that had revoked Claudia Hoerig's Brazilian citizenship – allowing extradition procedures to move forward. Background on the murder of Karl Hoerig: On March 15th, 2007 U.S. Air Force Reserve Major Karl Hoerig was found fatally shot in his home. Claudia Hoerig, his wife at the time has been charged with her crime. Three days prior to Karl being found, Claudia had emptied her husband’s bank account, wired additional money to relatives in Brazil, and fled the U.S. to her native country of Brazil. As a private pilot for Southwest Airlines, Karl and Claudia Hoerig were entitled to free airfare. Claudia took advantage of this benefit after the murder to flee to her home country. Claudia Hoerig has remained free from justice since 2007, avoiding trial by taking advantage of a provision in the Brazilian constitution that bans extradition of any Brazilian citizen. This provision in the Brazilian constitution was added after a 1961 treaty in which Brazil promised to extradite criminals such as Hoerig to the U.S. Brazilian Extradition Policy: Unlike the United States constitution, the constitution of the Federative Republic of Brazil explicitly prohibits the extradition of its citizens charged with one or more criminal acts. While the United States’ policy is to extradite to Brazil persons facing charges in that country, Brazil’s law enforces the prohibition of extradition of its nationals. Nevertheless, the United States continues to provide Brazilian nationals with visas for entry into the United States. The result is that nationals of the Federative Republic of Brazil who commit criminal acts on US soil are able to evade justice under the sanctuary of the Brazilian government simply by fleeing to Brazilian territory. Congressman Ryan maintains that Claudia Hoerig should no longer be considered a Brazilian citizen since she renounced her Brazilian citizenship when she was in the United States. The Brazilian Supreme Court has sided with Congressman Ryan and revoked Claudia’s Brazilian Citizenship but she is appealing that decision. Congressman Ryan’s Action Timeline on the Claudia Hoerig Case: (LETTER) May 4, 2007 letter to U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales(link is external) (LETTER) May 4, 2007 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice(link is external) (LETTER) November 20, 2007 letter to Brazilian Foreign Minister Amorim (link is external) (LETTER) November 27, 2007 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Patriota (link is external) (LETTER) November 29, 2007 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Patriota (link is external) (MEETING) December 18, 2007 Ryan meets with Brazilian Officials regarding Hoerig Case (VIDEO) April 3, 2008 Ryan facilitates AMVETS Commander to speak on Hoerig Case (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Patriota(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to Brazilian Chamber of Deputies President Arlindo Chinaglia (link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to Brazilian President Lula da Silva(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to President of the Senate Garilbaldi Alves(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to U.S. Ambassador to Brazil Clifford Sobrel(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice(link is external) (LETTER) March 4, 2009 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton(link is external) (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 11, 2009 Ryan introduces Ryan-Boccieri Hoerig Resolution (LETTER) March 3, 2011 letter to U.S. President Barack Obama (link is external) (LETTER) May 26, 2011 letter to Mary Warlow, U.S. Director of International Affairs, Dept. of Justice (link is external) (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 21, 2011 Ryan introduces Brazilian Foreign Aid Fairness Act (LETTER) July 27, 2011 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton (VIDEO) June 7, 2012 Ryan Spoke on House Floor on Claudia Hoerig and Brazilian Visa Amendment (BILL INTRODUCTION) February 14, 2013 Ryan Introduces "End Immunity for Brazilian Criminals Act" and the "Karl Hoerig Foreign Aid Suspension Act” (LETTER) March 12, 2013 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Mauro Vieira (VIDEO) April 17, 2013 Ryan protests Brazilian contract during Defense Appropriations Hearing over Hoerig Case (PRESS RELEASE) April 22, 2013 Ryan Questions Former Defense Secretary Hagel May 22, 2013 Ryan introduces Amendment to restrict immigrant visas for Brazilians (PRESS RELEASE) July 31, 2013 Brazil Revokes Hoerig’s Citizenship (VIDEO) June 5, 2013 Ryan speaks on House Floor on Amendment to Restrict Brazilian Immigrant Visas (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 15, 2015 Ryan introduces ‘Karl Hoerig Foreign Aid Suspension Act’ (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 15, 2015 Ryan introduces ‘End Immuity for Brazilian Criminals Act’ (PRESS RELEASE) July 31, 2013 Brazil Revokes Hoerig’s Citizenship (PRESS RELEASE) June 29, 2015 Ryan Calls on Brazilian President to Extradite Hoerig Letters Received: December 17, 2007 letter from Brazillian Ambassador Patriota(link is external) December 17, 2007 letter from the U.S. State Department(link is external) December 21, 2007 letter from the Brazil Ministry of External Relations(link is external) January 23, 2008 letter from the Justice Department Office of Legislative Affairs(link is external) May 23, 2008 letter from the State Department Office of Legislative Affairs(link is external) February 24, 2009 letter from the State Department Office of Legislative Affairs(link is external) September 19, 2011 letter from the State Department Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs October 24. 2011 letter from the Brazillian Ambassador to the United States of America, Mauro Vieira
03.10.2017	Washington, DC – Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Pat Tiberi (R-OH) today introduced the bipartisan Expansion of Nutrition’s Role in Curricula and Healthcare (ENRICH) Act of 2017, which establishes a $15 million grant program for U.S. Medical Schools and Osteopathic Colleges to create an integrated nutrition and physical activity curriculum program. Currently there is no mandatory requirement for US Medical Schools or Osteopathic Colleges to include nutrition and physical activity in their curriculum. “An understanding of proper diet and exercise is central throughout all of our lives and is critical for future physicians to learn during any medical education, and this legislation is a step toward ensuring each and every medical professional has the expertise necessary to provide the best care possible,” said Rep. Ryan. “With U.S. healthcare expenditures continuing to rise to unprecedented levels, we must do everything in our power to improve the health of our nation. We need to raise awareness and reduce our risk of chronic diseases like cancer, stroke, heart disease, and diabetes that are plaguing our communities and are directly connected with diet and lifestyle choices." “In medicine, prevention is always better than a cure. That is why I am partnering with Congressman Tim Ryan on the ENRICH Act so that our nation’s medical schools have better access to the tools they need to treat and prevent obesity—a leading cause of cardiovascular disease, diabetes and other chronic conditions. Specifically, the ENRICH Act would enhance nutrition and physical activity curriculum and help our nation’s medical professionals teach patients about ways to live a healthy lifestyle,” said Rep. Tiberi. This three-year grant program will allow U.S. Medical Schools and Osteopathic Colleges to establish or expand nutrition and physical activity curriculum in order to highlight the role that nutrition, diet and exercise play in prevention and management of obesity and cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and cancer. Healthcare spending in the United States continues to rise. Seven out of ten deaths in the U.S. are now caused by preventable chronic diseases such as heart disease, stroke, and type 2 diabetes where lifestyle factors such as diet and exercise are key factors. Expenditures in the United States on health care surpassed $2.3 trillion in 2008, more than three times the $714 billion spent in 1990. Cardiovascular disease cost American’s $555 billion in 2016 alone. The American Heart Association estimates that, by 2035, costs related to cardiovascular disease will triple to around $1.1 trillion. Raising awareness and increasing nutrition education can help improve many American’s diets and help reduce the risks of these chronic diseases. This legislation is endorsed by the following groups: Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, SHAPE America, The Food Trust, Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, American Association on Health and Disability, Lakeshore Foundation, American Association of Colleges of Osteopathic Medicine, American Heart Association, American Society for Nutrition, Oral health America, Real Food for Kids Montgomery, Healthy School Food Maryland, National Association of Nutrition Professionals, Sustainable Food Center, North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, and the American College of Sports Medicine.
03.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Tim Ryan (OH-13), Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11), and Joyce Beatty (OH-03) together voiced opposition to the current Republican health care proposal. This statement comes as Republican-led committees in the House began moving their health care proposals without proper transparency or in a process that respects the voices and input of the American people. The American Nurses Association, American Medical Association, AARP and many other hospital and health care associations oppose the bill. “Republicans jammed this bill through multiple committees in just two days, giving the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office no time to report on this bill’s devastating effects on coverage and cost and refusing our citizens a chance to have their voices heard. This dangerous, misguided bill will mean less coverage, fewer protections, and higher costs. This is not what the American people want and this is not the direction we should be taking our country,” said Congressman Ryan. “In the dead of night, knowing most Americans were sound asleep and couldn't listen, the Republicans began pushing this harmful and reckless health insurance‎ bill through House Committees,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “This proposal rewards the rich and health care executives while denying care to hardworking Americans. The Republican plan does nothing to control the cost of medicine and imposes far higher premium rates on people who live paycheck to paycheck. We must build on the progress of the Affordable Care Act, and not turn back to a time many Americans went without care.” "The Republican plan is another example of broken promises from their party. As they race to pass a bill without Congressional Budget Office review, their plan offers less coverage, fewer protections, and higher costs. It hurts the elderly, the sick, and the poor, and rewards the young and the wealthy. Every American deserves quality, affordable health care, but what the Republicans have put forth drastically limits access. Their plan is an insult to the people of this country. It will endanger the health of generations to come,” said Congresswoman Fudge. "Republicans have had seven years to develop their own comprehensive healthcare plan. Yet, they have failed to deliver a workable plan—even conceding that their new bill is a 'work in progress.' That being said, it is painfully obvious that 'Republicancare' is going to be a prescription for disaster for our seniors, women, people with disabilities, the sick and countless working families,” said Congresswoman Beatty. Additionally, Democratic Whip, Rep. Steny Hoyer has invited Americans to visit https://resistrepeal.org/ to make their voices heard in light of the Republican-led efforts to rush this bill through Committee markup. Facts about the Affordable Care Act in Ohio: According to the House Energy and House Oversight Committees, 866,000 individuals in Ohio have gained coverage since the ACA was implemented and could lose their coverage if the ACA is entirely or partially repealed. 212,046 individuals purchased high-quality Marketplace coverage now stand to lose their coverage if the Republican Congress dismantles the exchanges. 174,448 individuals received financial assistance to purchase Marketplace coverage in 2016, averaging $250 per individual, and are at risk of having coverage become unaffordable if the Republican Congress eliminates the premium tax credits. 665,900 individuals enrolled in Medicaid under the ACA’s Medicaid expansion and could now stand to lose coverage if the Republican Congress eliminates the Medicaid expansion. 119,000 kids have gained coverage since the ACA was implemented. 81,000 young adults were able to stay on a parent’s health insurance plan thanks to the ACA. They now stand to lose coverage if the Republican Congress eliminates the requirement that insurers allow children to stay on their parents’ plans until age 26.
03.08.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today made the following statement today after voting in favor of the FY2017 Defense Appropriations bill on the House Floor. Ryan is a member of the House Appropriations Defense Subcommittee. “I am proud to use my position on the Defense Appropriations Committee to craft this important legislation that gives our Armed Forces the resources and funding they need to serve and protect the United States of America and positively impacts our community – including potential opportunities for the Youngstown Air Reserve Station, Youngstown State University and America Makes. This legislation provides a well-deserved and hard-earned 2.1 percent pay increase for our men and women in uniform. Further, I am pleased we are fully funding the European Reassurance Initiative where the Ohio National Guard has deployed,” said Congressman Ryan. Congressman Ryan helped secure $10 million in funding for an additive manufacturing innovation research program based at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio. Youngstown State University, America Makes and the University of Dayton Research Institute previously won a competitive contract in Fiscal Year 2015 to carry out the work on an earlier phase of that same program. The program seeks to increase the use of additive manufacturing in the military. This is the third year in a row Ryan has secured $10 million for this program. Congressman Ryan also inserted language into the report accompanying the spending bill which seeks to provide new C-130J airplanes for Air Force Reserve Specialized Missions. The 910th Airlift Wing is one of three specialty missions in the Air Force and is solely responsible for the Department of Defense’s aerial spraying capability. Ryan’s language directs the Chief of the Air Force Reserve to prioritize units with the oldest equipment when deciding which specialty missions to upgrade.
03.08.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement on the Republican’s Bill to Repeal the Affordable Care Act: “While there are issues with our health care system that need fixed, this Republican attempt to repeal and insufficiently replace the Affordable Care Act is only going to make matters worse. I am willing to work together in a bipartisan fashion to make our current system better and stronger. But House Republicans have introduced dangerous legislation that shows they have no interest in expanding access and improving the health of every American. It would throw millions off their health insurance, while increasing the cost and decreasing benefits for the working class families. To make matters worse, Republicans are jamming this bill through multiple committees in just two days, giving the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office no time to report on this bill’s devastating effects on coverage and cost and refusing our citizens a chance to have their voices heard. “Instead of rushing this bill into law, Republicans should be listening to the men and women of my district who are anxious about the future of their healthcare. Let’s be honest, there is a reason to be nervous. Ending the Medicaid expansion will cause at least 11 million Americans to lose their coverage and will hurt the 70 million Americans who rely on Medicaid for their health care. Defunding Planned Parenthood will further restrict women’s access to comprehensive health coverage. Enacting an age tax will force our seniors to pay premiums five times higher simply due to their age. All while giving the 400 wealthiest families in the country a yearly $7 million tax break. “This dangerous, misguided bill is clearly motivated by politics and not the best interests of the American people. President Trump and Congressional Republicans promised the country legislation that would cover more Americans and lower healthcare premiums, Instead, this bill means less coverage, fewer protections, and higher costs. This is not what the American people want and this is not the direction we should be taking our country.”
03.07.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today led a bipartisan coalition of 23 members of Congress calling on President Trump to include full funding of $9.3 billion to fight the opioid and prescription drug epidemic in the United States. Ryan is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction Treatment and Recovery Caucus. “This epidemic is costing our nation $700 billion nationally in health, crime and lost productivity costs, but that is nothing compared to the toll it is taking on our families and friends. In my state of Ohio, drug overdose is now the leading cause of accidental death, we cannot continue to allow heroin and prescription drugs to reap havoc on our communities. It is time for President Trump to do the right thing and provide the money needed to put an end to this horrible epidemic,” said Congressman Ryan. Dear President Trump: We are writing to provide you an update and express our support for the current infrastructure that Congress has built to combat our nation’s ongoing heroin and prescription drug epidemic. Through bipartisan work Congress has responded to the overwhelming stress addiction has placed on our communities with 34 key programs at the Department of Health and Human Services, the Office of National Drug Control Policy and the Department of Justice that tackle substance abuse, including the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act that you strongly supported throughout your campaign. This structure provides law enforcement resources, prevention, treatment, recovery support, overdose reversal and criminal justice initiatives. The $9.3 billion included in these programs may seem like a large investment, but is our base line of defense in responding to addiction which costs the United States $700 billion annually. In 2015, drug overdose deaths continued to climb to more than 52,000; by comparison, 38,000 people died due to automobile accidents in 2015. Opioid were the main driver of overdose deaths, accounting for more than 33,000 fatalities. There is no question that heroin and opioid addiction ruins lives, disrupts families and contributes to destabilizing our neighborhoods. Communities in our districts continue to struggle to respond to the opioid epidemic. Local government officials, hospitals, teachers, law enforcement, child service agencies, judges, and advocates all have the same message – they need help and they need more funding. Level funding for these programs would continue the progress our communities are making in tackling this ongoing epidemic and increase their resources so they have the services necessary to help the men and women battling this disease. You called for passage of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act and said, “we will give the people struggling with addiction access to the help they need.” As your Administration works to prepare the upcoming Fiscal Year 2018 Budget, funding for a comprehensive approach to tackling the opioid epidemic, including prevention treatment, law enforcement strategies, overdose reversal, recovery support, and criminal justice is the next step. The numbers do not lie. This problem is only getting worse. We must act now. We stand ready to continue this critical funding, which will provide our communities the resources necessary to not only prevent addiction, but create access to treatment and recovery to save lives. As your administration works to prepare a budget, we hope it will keep these commitments in mind. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH) Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) Rep. Paul Tonko (D-NY) Rep. Dave Joyce (R-OH) Rep. Ann McLane Kuster (D-NH) Rep. Thomas Rooney (R-FL) Rep. Eliot Engel (D-NY) Rep. Tom MacArthur (R-CT) Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA) Rep. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) Rep. Lacy Clay (D-MO) Rep. Rick Larsen (D-WA) Rep. Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM) Rep. Collin Peterson (D-MN) Rep. Dave Loebsack (D-IA) Rep. Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH) Rep. José Serrano (D-NY) Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) Rep. Bill Foster (D-IL) Rep. Niki Tsongas (D-MA) Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN) Rep. Sander M. Levin (D-MI) Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY)
03.03.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan urges President Donald Trump to convene a meeting with Administration and General Motors officials to find an agreement that will prevent the termination of GM Lordstown’s third shift, which was announced in January of this year. The third shift employed 1,250 people. This move was announced in tandem with the decision to undergo a total three week production shutdown in March. Ryan’s letter was sent to President Trump today – March 3, 2017. The text of the letter is below: Donald Trump President The United States of America 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President During your campaign you said that you would support blue collar families, and spur American manufacturing. On inauguration day, while you spoke about America’s shuttered factories and the millions of workers struggling to find jobs, GM began the indefinite suspension of the third shift at their Ohio Lordstown Assembly Complex. The suspension has permanently terminated 1,250 employees, making the financial future uncertain for families throughout my district. In addition to eliminating more than a quarter of their workforce at Lordstown, General Motors has decided to initiate a three week production shutdown in March. This is despite the company’s pledge to invest more than 1 billion in domestic factories, and create 7,000 new jobs. In response, I call on you to work with General Motors and reinstate these workers and provide financial security and stability to these men and women. General Motors’ sudden and drastic employment reduction has not only harmed the economic security of workers at the Lordstown Assembly Complex. The massive layoffs are sending ripples through the broader automotive supply chain, adversely affecting auxiliary industries which provide automotive components, logistics, and other specialized support. Magna-Lordstown Seating Systems, which makes seats for the Chevrolet Cruze, simultaneously ended its third shift at the end of January. More than 100 workers lost their employment. Jamestown Industries specialize in steel manufacture, and had to terminate 15 employees due to the sudden lack of demand. Youngstown’s Comprehensive Logistics ships automotive parts for the Lordstown General Motors Assembly Complex, and stated that they have had to lay off a “significant proportion” of its employees since the sweeping layoffs. These job losses will further add to the economic pressures currently facing blue collar Americans and their families. Large manufacturing companies with a high number of employees are often the economic backbone for many Midwestern towns and cities. Massive singular employment terminations can economically depress an area overnight. As struggling families tighten their belts, regional spending declines. Consequently, complementary industries restaurants, grocery stores, and stores close their doors. Without the introduction of new industry, areas like Northeast Ohio will have difficulty rebuilding an economic foundation. President Trump, this is a great opportunity to fulfill your promises by working with General Motors to reinstate the Lordstown Assembly Complex’s third shift, and prevent its three week closure in march. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. I look forward to hearing from you about how we can get these men and women back to work. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
03.03.2017	Washington, DC – Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Tom Rooney (R-FL) introduced the Stop Trafficking in Fentanyl Act of 2017 today, a bill that amends the Controlled Substances Act to ensure the law appropriately reflects the potency of the opioid fentanyl. Addiction costs the United States $700 billion annually. In 2015, 52,000 deaths in the United States were caused by overdose, 33,000 of which can be directly attributed to opioids. Fentanyl, which is 50 times more powerful than heroin, is thought to be responsible for the massive spike in opioid overdose deaths. The DEA has issued a public warning to law enforcement warning them about accidental exposure to fentanyl, a substance which can be lethal at volumes the size of a grain of salt. “Ohio has seen yet another record-breaking year for overdose-related deaths, many due to fentanyl. We are losing too many of our friends, neighbors, and relatives to this destructive drug epidemic. I am proud to join Congressman Rooney in introducing this important legislation that will help get these drugs off the streets. We must respond to this crisis from all sides by improving coordination to reduce the number of drugs available, while also increasing and expanding access to treatment for those who are suffering,” said Rep. Ryan. “My concern is that without action, these overdose figures are only going to get worse,” said Rep. Rooney. “The opioid epidemic has been tearing communities apart across the country. Congressman Ryan and I continually hear about fentanyl from our local law enforcement officers and prosecutors, and this bill will help give them the tools they need to get those who traffic this dangerous synthetic opioid off the street.” The Stop Trafficking in Fentanyl Act would reduce the amount of fentanyl needed to invoke the most serious trafficking penalties for an individual trafficking and manufacturing the drug. The bill would lower the threshold that triggers federal penalties from 400 grams to 20 grams to ensure that the law appropriately reflects the extreme strength of the drug, which can be fatal in doses as small as 0.25 mg. The DEA has also issued warnings to law enforcement as fentanyl can be absorbed through the skin and accidental inhalation of airborne powder can also occur.
03.02.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Ryan released the following statement in response to news that Attorney General Sessions, despite testifying to the contrary during his confirmation hearings, had repeated contact with Russian officials during the 2016 campaign. “Attorney General Jeff Sessions has lost all credibility to serve as our nation’s top law enforcement officer. The American people expect better from their government, and certainly deserve it. While Mr. Sessions has indicated he’d be willing to recuse himself from ongoing FBI and Department of Justice investigations into the Trump Administration’s ties to Russia, we are past that point – he must resign. I call on Republican leadership in Congress to immediately form an independent commission and special prosecutor to fully investigate any connections between the Trump Administration and Russian government officials – similar to the nonpartisan 9/11 Commission. The lies must stop, this issue goes to the very heart of our democracy, and must be investigated with full transparency. History will remember how Congress responds, and the time for action is now.”
02.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan joined with Committee on Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), and Rep. Sander Levin (D-MI), today to sent a letter to President Trump today urging him to go beyond executive action and support legislation that would direct the Department of Commerce to treat currency manipulation as a countervailable subsidy. “We have read reports that your Administration is looking at the possibility of addressing this issue, specifically by treating manipulated exchange rates as export subsidies and applying countervailing duties against countries that benefit from the undervalued currency,” the Members wrote. “Instead of simply making this change through executive action, however, we urge you to support legislation that would make this change permanent. Without legislation, the next Administration could revoke this much-needed policy with the stroke of a pen.” The Members went on to note that without assurance that this policy will be in place permanently, U.S. manufacturers will not have the confidence needed to invest in the United States. A PDF of the letter is available here.
02.16.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Ryan today introduced two new bills aimed at bolstering U.S. manufacturing and employment. The first of these bills, The RETAIN Act, modifies the United States Code for civilian and defense contracts by adding a preference for contractors that promise to retain jobs in the United States. To be eligible for the preference, an applicant for a federal contract must submit a certification that confirms the contractor and its subcontractors will not relocate jobs from the United States to foreign countries during the period of performance of the contract and will use products substantially manufactured in the United States and services provided in the United States under the contract. In addition to Congressman Tim Ryan, Representatives Marcy Kaptur, Louise Slaughter, and Mark Pocan also are original cosponsors of this bill. “Companies that receive federal contracts paid for with taxpayer funds should keep their operations in the United States. That is common sense. Rewarding companies that ship jobs overseas with lucrative contracts sets a bad precedent that will only work to further erode our American manufacturing base, and the families it sustains,” said Rep. Ryan. Congressman Ryan also introduced the Investing in America’s Small Manufacturers Act. This Act increases access to credit for small manufacturers through the Small Business Administration’s flagship loan guarantee programs. This legislation increases affordable loans to manufacturers, incentivizes manufacturers to grow operations, eliminates the “startup” penalty, expands education assistance to small manufacturers, and consolidates loan guarantee programs. This bill is Supported by the Information Technology & Innovation Foundation (ITIF). “America has always been a place where hard work, innovation, and tenacity are rewarded. Supporting small businesses, especially small manufacturing companies, with the capital they need to grow and hire new workers is one of the best investments we can make in the economy of tomorrow,” said Rep. Ryan. “The entrepreneurial spirit is a powerful force, and I am confident this legislation can go a long way in making sure that spirit will help drive a renaissance in manufacturing.” Sister legislation to this bill was originally introduced in the Senate by Senators Chris Coons and Cory Gardner last week.
02.15.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan responded to the news that Andrew Puzder, President Trump’s choice for Secretary of Labor, withdrew his nomination. Puzder, the CEO of Hardee's and Carl's Jr., has been sharply criticized for labor abuses that clearly disqualify him from the position of Secretary of Labor. “The Secretary of Labor should be someone who is always willing to go to bat for hard working men and women across the United States. Making sure workers are safe and fairly compensated should be the top priorities of any Labor Secretary, but from what we know of Mr. Pudzer’s record, he would not have lived up to those most basic standards,” said Congressman Ryan. “Pudzer’s hostility towards increasing the minimum wage and fair compensation for overtime work underscored that while Puzder made millions, his own workers were forced to struggle to get by.” “It is unacceptable that President Trump tried to appoint yet another nominee who stood to benefit by working against the very mission of their new agency. I’m proud that the American people and the United States Senate resoundingly rejected the nomination of Andrew Puzder. We need a Secretary of Labor who understands that American workers and their families are the backbone of our nation. And if President Trump is serious about bringing back good paying jobs, he should immediately nominate someone who is truly serious about protecting the welfare of workers,” continued Congressman Ryan.
02.15.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan was joined by Senators Chris Coons (D-DE), Susan Collins (R-ME), and Steve Daines (R-MT) as well as Representatives Tom Reed (R-NY) and Dan Lipinski (D-IL) today to introduce legislation to establish the position of U.S. Chief Manufacturing Officer in the Executive Office of the President. Ryan and Reed are Co-Chairs of the bipartisan House Manufacturing Caucus. The U.S. Chief Manufacturing Officer (CMO) will be responsible for coordinating manufacturing-related policies and activities across agencies. The CMO will also develop a national manufacturing strategy to revitalize the manufacturing sector, spur economic growth, and expand United States competitiveness. “Manufacturing is the lifeblood of our economy, and the backbone of the middle class. Our manufacturing sector employs 9% of the United States workforce and makes up 12% of our GDP. Its importance cannot be overstated, manufacturing plays a critical role in almost every part of our economy, stretching from construction to pharmaceuticals; transportation to agriculture. Nearly 5 million manufacturing jobs have been lost since 2000, mostly due to automation, trade deals and off-shoring. We introduced this legislation to ensure that we are looking at the big picture, and doing everything in our power to give American manufacturing the tools it needs to grow and thrive,” said Rep. Ryan. “Manufacturing is critical to innovation and entrepreneurship in the United States.” said Senator Coons. "Across many federal agencies, the U.S. Government makes decisions every day that impact this important sector. It’s critical that we make sure federal efforts are effective, coordinated and informed by an overall strategy. That’s why I’m proud to introduce the Chief Manufacturing Officer Act — bipartisan, bicameral legislation that will ensure federal policy helps manufacturers grow and create jobs." “Manufacturing has long been a source of good–paying, stable jobs for many in Maine and across our nation,” said Senator Collins. “The establishment of a United States Chief Manufacturing Officer would help develop a national strategy and coordinate federal policies to grow and enhance the competitiveness of our manufacturing sector. By focusing our efforts to revitalize this important industry, we can protect high-quality manufacturing jobs and create new economic opportunities in the years to come.” “Domestic manufacturing plays an integral role in supporting hardworking families and nearly 3,000 small businesses across our state,” Senator Daines stated. “Manufacturing jobs pay an average of 17 percent higher wages than non-manufacturing jobs and we need policies in place that enable small businesses to be globally competitive and help create more of these high-paying jobs.” “I care about creating and sustaining manufacturing jobs not only in my district, but across the nation. Manufacturing is a vital industry that creates family-sustaining jobs. We must make a deliberate effort to encourage domestic manufacturing growth and develop fair public policies that will put this industry at the forefront of our economic gains. I’m glad to work in a bipartisan manner with Manufacturing Caucus co-chair Tim Ryan on this issue,” stated Rep. Reed. "I applaud Rep. Tim Ryan on the introduction of this legislation, which establishes a new position that will help coordinate federal policy that impacts American manufacturers and workers, the linchpin of our economy and the foundation of our middle class. My American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act ‒ which was passed into law ‒ requires that the Trump Administration issue a national strategy to promote manufacturing early next year. A Chief Manufacturing Officer in the White House would be helpful in the development and implementation of next year's strategic plan and subsequent plans that will follow every four years,” said Rep. Lipinski. On average, each manufacturing job creates additional three to four jobs due to the required research, development and process design, and needed supply chain and post sales services. However, manufacturing employment, output and exports are all affected by such issues as tax policies, state of infrastructure and transportation, small business regulations, environmental regulations, trade policies, innovation ecosystems, workforce development, and education initiatives. Unfortunately, some legislative policies and executive actions have resulted in unintended, inconsistent, and conflicting outcomes with respect to the growth of manufacturing in the United States. Therefore, a high level coordination and planning is needed to ensure that all actions and strategies would lead to a clear path for growth of the manufacturing sector. “A Chief Manufacturing Officer in the Executive Office of the President that sets a strategy based on rapid innovation is the best support our government can give American manufacturers as they respond to the opportunity and challenges of an increasingly connected, automated world,” said Douglas K. Woods, President, the Association For Manufacturing Technology. “We firmly believe the Office of the Chief Manufacturing Officer will provide the president and the nation with an executive officer who will strengthen the U.S. economy by shaping national manufacturing policy, promoting greater innovation and R&D investments to expand advanced manufacturing, and enhancing the competitiveness of American manufacturers in ever-changing domestic and global markets,” said Rusty Patterson, President, the National Council for Advanced Manufacturing (NACFAM). “Establishing a single officer to govern manufacturing policy will ensure that sustained investment in advanced manufacturing initiatives—such as training and educating a skilled workforce, building a robust and enduring domestic manufacturing base, and further developing industrial technologies—will protect our national security and ability to compete globally in the most efficient and effective way possible,” said Thomas G. Loughlin, ASME Executive Director. “Manufacturing constitutes a vital pillar of the U.S. economy and remains a key provider of high-wage, high-value-add jobs for American workers. But it’s clear that policymakers need to be doing more to ensure this critical industry thrives. ITIF supports legislation to designate a Chief Manufacturing Officer in the White House,” said Robert Atkinson, ITIF President. “With technology advancing rapidly, our manufacturing workforce has to be prepared to retrain several times during their career,” said Robert G. Kiggans, Former Chairman, IMS International. “This bill could not happen at a better time. We should move quickly!” This legislation has been supported by: American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), Association For Manufacturing Technology (AMT), Automation Federation (AF), International Society of Automation (ISA), Information Technology & Innovation Foundation (ITIF), Intelligent Systems International (IMS-I), Manufacturing Alliance of Communities (MAC), National Center for Defense Manufacturing and Machining (NCDMM), and National Council for Advanced Manufacturing(NACFAM). ###
02.07.2017	Washington, DC – The U.S. Senate today confirmed Betsy DeVos to be the next Secretary of Education on a 51-50 vote. This was the first time in history that a Vice President was needed to cast a tiebreaking vote for the confirmation of a Cabinet Secretary. Every Democrat, two Independents, and two Republicans voted against her confirmation. “Betsy DeVos is entirely the wrong choice to lead the U.S. Department of Education. While I am deeply disappointed in the Senate’s decision, now that she has been confirmed, I urge Ms. DeVos to do the research she should have done before her confirmation hearing,” said Congressman Ryan. “The United States can't afford for our new Secretary of Education not to understand the critical role her department plays in the lives of each and every one of our children. They deserve nothing but the best.” Betsy DeVos, who before her nomination ran an organization that knowingly broke Ohio election law, currently owes the state $5.3 million in fines. Congressman Ryan has repeatedly called on Ms. DeVos to pay the money owed to Ohio, and will continue to insist such despite her confirmation. No one is above the law, and those funds are needed in Ohio to put towards hard working families, and the very schools Ms. DeVos is now tasked with leading.
02.03.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan responds to national report naming Ohio the number one state destination for fentanyl in the nation. Fentanyl is a deadly synthetic opioid that is 30 to 50 times stronger than heroin and 100 times stronger than morphine. Ohio’s total positive lab tests for fentanyl are four times higher than the next highest state, Pennsylvania. Report shows most of these deadly drugs are coming from China. Find full report here. Ryan introduced the STOP OD Act of 2017 with Congressman Dave Joyce, which works to address the country-wide opioid epidemic by increasing the availability of the life-saving drug Naloxone for first responders, expanding the training in Naloxone administration, and enhancing education and preventative efforts. "We are losing too many of our friends, neighbors, and relatives to this destructive drug epidemic. Addiction is a disease, and the people suffering need care just like anyone else who gets sick in this country, yet only 1 out of 10 Americans who suffers from substance abuse gets treated. It is critical that we get serious about this issue and work together to begin to stem the tide. We cannot afford to do nothing. We must respond to this crisis from all sides by improving coordination to stopping these deadly drugs from coming into our state from places like China, while also increasing and expanding access to treatment for those who are suffering,” said Congressman Ryan.
02.01.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – At a press conference today Reps. Tim Ryan (OH-13), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Walter Jones (NC-03), and Tulsi Gabbard (HI-02) introduced the Return to Prudent Banking Act and urge President Donald Trump to live up to his campaign promises on reinstating Glass-Steagall protections in our banking system. The bill has 26 cosponsors and is endorsed by Public Citizen and the AFL-CIO. “I am proud to cosponsor the Return to Prudent Banking Act, which revives the separation between commercial banking and securities companies as written in the Glass-Steagall Act. These are smart financial reforms designed to protect our economy from another financial crisis and hardworking American taxpayers from another Wall Street collapse. We know that the climate of deregulation led to the financial crisis. We can’t let that happen again,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “The 2008 crash nearly took down our entire economy and led to the great recession which wiped out average Americans’ income. But now, Democrats and Republicans have memorialized support for Glass-Steagall in their respective political platforms. Even President Trump has declared his support for a new Glass-Steagall law,” said Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur. “That is why we are here, to build on the momentum and the movement to reinstate Glass-Stegall.” Wall Street banks should not be allowed to use taxpayer-insured consumer deposits to gamble in the markets and then get taxpayer bailouts for failed decisions,” said Congressman Walter Jones. “It’s time to put American taxpayers and depositors first. It’s time to pass the Return to Prudent Banking Act and reinstate Glass-Steagall.” “From the Great Depression through the turn of the 21st Century, Glass-Steagall helped keep our economy safe. Repealing it allowed too-big-to-fail banks to gamble with the savings and livelihoods of the American people, with devastating, irrevocable consequences. Hawaiʻi, along with communities across the country, paid the price in 2008 with the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. Today, the banks that were "too big to fail" in 2008 are even bigger and more powerful now. We must reinstate Glass-Steagall and create a financial system that works for every American—not just Wall Street banks,” said Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard. Background: Kaptur has introduced this legislation in every Congress since 2009 and led the way with this common sense proposal that will reinstate the separation between commercial and investment banking. These rules were first established through the Glass-Steagall and Banking Act of 1933. “We welcome Rep. Kaptur’s common sense appeal that Wall Street return to prudent banking. With bipartisan support, the Glass-Steagall separation from government-backed money and speculation will inevitably be restored. The only question is how soon. Public Citizen is committed to shrinking time,” Bart Naylor, Public Citizen. Current original cosponsors of Return to Prudent Banking Act, H.R. 790: Reps. Lynch, Ryan (OH), Pocan, DeLauro, Holmes-Norton, Schakowsky, Doyle, Slaughter, Jones, Welch, Watson-Coleman, Serrano, Lipinski, Garamendi, Speier, Ellison, Conyers, Gabbard, Grijalva, Tonko, McGovern, Defazio, Lee, Capuano, Pingree and Fudge.
02.01.2017	“Manufacturing is the lifeblood of the American economy, driving innovation, delivering high-wage jobs, and engaging new technologies to create high-value products that are in demand around the world” WASHINGTON – Representative Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) is joined by U.S. Senators Chris Coons (D-Del.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), and Representative Tom Reed (R-N.Y.) to urge President Donald Trump to utilize the Department of Commerce’s Manufacturing Council to support his Manufacturing Jobs Initiative. In particular, the letter expresses support for Manufacturing USA Institutes and encourages further work to strengthen manufacturing and defense supply chains and cybersecurity. “Manufacturing is the lifeblood of the American economy, driving innovation, delivering high-wage jobs, and engaging new technologies to create high-value products that are in demand around the world,” the members wrote. “Since its creation in 2004, the Manufacturing Council has provided a forum to bring together private and public sector leaders to inform strategy and policy that supports this critical sector in the United States. We believe the expertise, insights, and policy recommendations that the Council provided will be an important resource for the new administration.” Full letter below: January 31, 2017 The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to express our support for the recent announcement of your Manufacturing Jobs Initiative and your intent to seek counsel from CEOs and business leaders who can provide valuable insights and recommendations for creating manufacturing jobs and promoting economic growth. As you move forward with this Initiative, we want to bring your attention to prior work of the Department of Commerce’s Manufacturing Council that may accelerate your efforts. Manufacturing is the lifeblood of the American economy, driving innovation, delivering high-wage jobs, and engaging new technologies to create high-value products that are in demand around the world. Since its creation in 2004, the Manufacturing Council has provided a forum to bring together private and public sector leaders to inform strategy and policy that supports this critical sector in the United States. We believe the expertise, insights, and policy recommendations that the Council provided will be an important resource for the new administration. Over the past few years, the Manufacturing Council has offered a number of strong policy recommendations that deserve consideration. We particularly support recommendations to promote successful approaches for the Manufacturing USA Institutes (the National Network for Manufacturing Innovation). Public investment in the Manufacturing USA Institutes is more than matched by private sector investment, demonstrating that the effort is market-driven. The work of these Institutes will help ensure that the United States leads the world in R&D and the implementation of cutting-edge technologies. In the Manufacturing Council’s final report issued on August 3, 2016, the Council also recommended that public and private leaders focus on strengthening manufacturing and defense supply chains as well as cybersecurity. These are two critical policy areas because manufacturing increasingly employs digital communication methods from design to production to delivery. These are just a few of the recommendations that should be a core part of an agenda to create manufacturing jobs. Support for manufacturing is bipartisan and bicameral, as evidenced by the signatories to this letter representing the Co-Chairs of the Senate Competitiveness Caucus and the House Manufacturing Caucus. Manufacturing is a policy area where Congress and the administration can find common ground. In recent years, bipartisan cooperation on manufacturing has led to the enactment of legislation to strengthen enforcement of trade secrets, encourage public-private partnerships aimed to revitalize manufacturing innovation, and permanently extend the R&D tax credit. These important actions in support of manufacturers will have a direct impact on job creation and economic growth in the United States. Finally, we support Andrew Liveris’ leadership role on the Manufacturing Jobs Initiative. As a former Chairman and CEO of Dow Chemical, Mr. Liveris is a well-respected business leader with experience working with government, industry, and academia. As Co-Chair of the Advanced Manufacturing Partnership Steering Committee, he set the stage for important public and private investments in research and development, including the 14 Manufacturing USA Institutes. Thank you for your consideration. We look forward to working together to ensure that the United States continues to produce the highest quality, most sought-after products in the world. Sincerely, Senator Christopher A. Coons Senator Jerry Morgan Representative Tim Ryan Representative Tom Reed
02.01.2017	Washington, DC – Representatives Tim Ryan (OH-13), Dave Joyce (OH-14) and Marcia Fudge (OH-11) introduced bipartisan legislation today, at the beginning of Black History Month, to award the Congressional Gold Medal to civil rights reporter and icon Simeon Booker in recognition of his achievements in the field of journalism. “I couldn’t think of a more worthy American than Simeon Booker to be awarded Congress’s highest honor, the Congressional Gold Medal. His long and illustrious career in journalism and his work to advance the civil rights movement has forever changed our nation for the better,” said Rep. Ryan. “Simeon Booker has devoted his life’s work to breaking barriers and changing the hearts and minds of all those he touched through his writing . He is a true American hero." “Simeon Booker dedicated his career to covering the civil rights movement and achieved many firsts in his field. We're proud that Mr. Booker started his journalism career in Youngstown and believe he's a worthy recipient of the Congressional Gold Medal,” said Rep. Joyce. “Simeon Booker is a highly-respected journalist whose award-winning reporting changed the course of this nation. Mr. Booker used his pen and pad to shed light on the plight of African Americans and propelled the issues of civil rights, equality, and justice to the world stage. He wrote about what other wouldn’t, went places others didn’t, and spoke for those who couldn’t. I applaud Mr. Booker for his courage. What a fitting way to celebrate Black History Month it would be to award the Congressional Gold Medal to this Ohio legend.” said Rep. Fudge. Simeon Booker began his career writing about Negro League baseball teams for the Youngstown Vindicator. In 1950, he received the Nieman Fellowship to study journalism and develop his talent as a reporter. After one year at Harvard, Booker became the first full-time African American reporter at the Washington Post. In 1955 he helped advance the civil rights movement with his famous coverage of the Emmett Till murder and trial – turning a common occurrence in the Deep South into a national tragedy that united the African American community. In 1961, he rode with the Congress On Racial Equality (CORE) Freedom Riders through the Deep South; and, when they were firebombed and beaten by the Ku Klux Klan in Alabama, Booker arranged for their rescue by calling U.S. Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy. Simeon Booker is often referred to as the “Dean of the Black Press”. He has covered every presidential election since 1953 and is the author of two highly acclaimed books: Shocking the Conscience: A Reporter’s Account of the Civil Rights Movement and Black Man’s America. His honors and awards include: Nieman Fellowship, Harvard University 1950; elected president of the Capitol Press Club, 1956; Fourth Estate Award, National Press Club, 1982: inducted into Hall of Fame, Washington Chapter of Sigma Delta Chi, and Hall of Fame of Washington, D.C. 1984; Master Communicators Award, National Black Media Coalition, 1998; Phoenix Award, Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, 2010; inducted into Hall of Fame, National Association of Black Journalists, 2013.
01.30.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan signed on as an original cosponsor of the "Statue of Liberty Values Act" (SOLVE), legislation aimed at stopping President Trump’s use of executive orders to ban immigration from Muslim-majority countries, and halt the US refugee resettlement program. The bill would prohibit funds, resources, and fees from being made available by the United States Congress to any Federal agency to be used to implement, administer, enforce, or carry out any of the policy changes set forth in the Executive Order titled “Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United States” signed by President Donald Trump on January 27, 2017. “President Trump’s executive actions banning immigrants and refugees —primarily Muslims-- to our country is a dramatic and shameful departure from the values system that has helped make the United States a beacon of hope, compassion, and freedom around the world. These orders make it impossible for us to welcome brave interpreters and their families who have assisted U.S. Armed Forces abroad to the safety of our shores and discourages interpreters from working with our troops in the future. It denies bright, driven students the opportunity to study at our universities and contribute to new research that could benefit the world. And it senselessly tears apart young families who are simply trying to find refuge from horror, the likes of which many of us can only imagine. “Any system for vetting immigrants and refugees should always be open for improvement, but this heartless ban is simply political theater. It plays directly into the hands of our enemies. This executive order will make it extremely difficult for our Armed Forces operating in the Middle East to find local interpreters and intelligence sources because they see that we will no longer honor our promise to protect them after putting their lives on the line to assist our troops. Further, Trump’s refugee ban will be used as a recruitment tool for ISIS or other extremist groups to grow their ranks and sow further distrust in our country, playing into their propaganda that the United States is at war with Islam. “We cannot allow President Trump’s ill-conceived, dangerous Executive Order to put our national security and the lives of these innocent refugees at risk.”
01.30.2017	Washington, DC – Today Reps. Tim Ryan (OH-13), Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), Marcia Fudge (OH-11), and Joyce Beatty (OH-03) call on Betsy DeVos to pay the $5.3 million owed to the state of Ohio by her Political Action Committee (PAC) for breaking campaign finance law. Before any further action on the confirmation for Trump’s choice for Secretary of Education, the Ohio representatives demand DeVos pay the fines owed by DeVos’ PAC, All Children Matter. "The American people expect more from their highest officials, Betsy Devos should immediately pay the fines owed to Ohio after she broke our state’s election laws. Access to a quality public education has been the great equalizer in our nation – empowering all citizens to have a shot at a better life for themselves and their families. The Department of Education needs a leader who believes that public education is a universal right for everyone regardless of race, creed or sexual orientation. Betsy Devos is not that leader," said Congressman Ryan. “Trump’s choice for Secretary of Education owes the state of Ohio millions for campaign finance violation by her PAC,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Betsy DeVos is not above the law, and before the Senate moves forward with her confirmation she must pay the money owed.” “I am deeply concerned about President Trump’s choice for Secretary of Education. Betsy DeVos is ‘anti-public education,’ ‘anti-transparency and accountability’ in for-profit schools, and ‘anti-teacher unions,’ which represent millions of our nation’s teachers.” said Congresswoman Fudge. “Even more egregious, DeVos is ‘anti-following the rules.’ By not paying back $5.3 million in campaign fines, she has a blatant disregard of Ohio’s laws and an open disdain for our state’s electoral system. DeVos must not be confirmed to lead America’s education system – she poses an imminent threat to our children, who has no respect for the law.” “As evidenced by her troubling and inadequate responses during the Senate confirmation hearing, it is obvious that Betsy DeVos is woefully unqualified to head the U.S. Department of Education. Also troubling, under DeVos’ leadership, All Children Matter PAC repeatedly violated Ohio campaign finance laws, racking up $5.3 million dollars in fines. Yet, eight years later, neither she nor her former PAC have paid the first penny—which is unconscionable. That is why I call on the Senate to reject DeVos’ nomination and to confirm a nominee who can prepare our children for 21st Century success,” said Congresswoman Beatty. Background: According to tax documents reviewed by Politico, DeVos was an officer and has publicly stated she was the chair of the Virginia-based All Children Matter PAC. During her leadership, the PAC broke Ohio election laws which impose donation limits of $10,000 per candidate. Devos violated those limits by funneling $870,000 in national PAC money to state Republican candidates, all of whom pledged to advocate for privatizing public school education through vouchers once elected into office. ‎
01.30.2017	Niles, OH –Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) announced today that 16 local students have been nominated to attend national military academies. Each year, Congressman Ryan nominates some of the best and brightest students from the 13th District to our United States military academies. This year Congressman Ryan recommended sixteen young men and women that have excelled both academically at school, and personally as leaders in their communities. These young people are beginning a journey that would test them physically and mentally, and mold them into our nation’s leaders of the future. Congressman Ryan is proud to have the honor to nominate these young men and women to our United States military academies knowing that they will make our country proud. “I am proud to nominate each of these students to be considered for acceptance to our nation’s military academies. Once again, this is a very impressive group of applicants," Congressman Ryan said, "These academies serve to develop our young people into leaders not only for our military, but also in our community. Our future is bright in their hands, and I am grateful to have the privilege to nominate such dedicated and inspiring students.” Each nominee completed an application and interviewed with the 13th District Nomination Committee, and the group was honored at a breakfast with Congressman Ryan today at McMenamy’s, 325 Youngstown Warren Rd, Niles. Congressman Ryan also presented Congressional Award Medals, which recognizes initiative achievement and service. To achieve a Bronze, Silver or Gold Congressional Medal, each participant sets and achieves challenging goals in four areas: voluntary public service, personal development, physical fitness and expedition/exploration. The Congressional Award provides a positive experience for the young participants it recognizes, the communities that benefit from their service and the Members of Congress who have the opportunity to develop and reinforce democratic values and ideals on a personal level with our nation’s young people. Weston Clark Congressional Gold Medalist 2016 & Congressional Bronze Medalist The nominated students are as follows: Marissa Davis, U.S. Military Academy at West Point Valley Christian High School Parents: Melanie Cooper & Cicero Davis Jeffery Marx, U.S. Naval Academy Ursuline High School Parents: Lisa & William Marx Ian Murphy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point Ursuline High School Parents: Stephen & Leslie Murphy Andrea Sparks, U.S. Naval Academy Maplewood High School Parents: Sue Sparks-Cristino & Allen Sparks Ashleigh Rowley, U.S. Naval Academy Western Reserve Local High School Parents: James and Melanie Rowley Hayden Stauffer, U.S. Military Academy at West Point Girard High School Parents: Kendell Stauffer Jr. & Marla Maderitz Brandon Akuszewski, U.S. Military Academy at West Point Austintown Fitch High School Parents: David & Alisa Akuszewski David Toussaint, U.S. Naval Academy Howland High School Parents: Gary & Dawn Toussaint Chelsea Mann, U.S. Military Academy at West Point Poland Seminary High School & Kent State University Parents: Stephen Mann & Samantha Vecchione Richard Peterson, U.S. Air Force Academy Cuyahoga Valley Christian Academy Parents: Bill & Tracy Peterson Christopher Liebhart, U.S. Naval Academy Marlington High School Parents: Wendell & Tommie Doak Nicholas Cornell, U.S. Naval Academy Valley Christian High School Parents: Christine and Eugene Cornell Andrew Comstock, U.S. Naval Academy Poland Seminary High School Parents: David & Jennifer Comstock Kiera Angelo, U.S. Military Academy at West Point Boardman High School Parents: Joseph Angelo Jr. & Nicola Morley Weston Clark, U.S. Naval Academy (Congressional Gold and Bronze Medalist) Home Schooled Parents: Rich & Lisa Clark Kemar Parmer, U.S. Military Academy at West Point Archbishop Hoban Parents: Troy Parmer & Kineta Blackmon
01.25.2017	Washington, DC – Democrats on the House Appropriations Committee today called on Speaker Paul Ryan to take immediate steps to ensure the House of Representatives does not provide a forum for members of the Trump Administration to take official actions unduly influenced by private financial interests. “Currently the men and women President Trump nominated for his Cabinet are going through an interview process for some of the toughest and most rewarding jobs in the country. They should be held to the highest of standards, but right now they aren’t even being held to the same standard any decent employer would expect. If one of my constituents in Northeast Ohio were up for a job, I know full well that they wouldn’t get away with half the stuff these millionaires and billionaires are trying to pull. My constituents deserve transparency and honesty when it comes to filling the top jobs of the government. Listen, I’ve got no problem with billionaires, I’d love to be one, but it is our duty in Congress to ensure that there are no conflicts of interest in the Trump Administration,” said Congressman Ryan. “President Trump has nominated individuals with unprecedented wealth and complex financial interests to serve in his Cabinet,” said Appropriations Ranking Member Nita Lowey (D-NY). “The absolute least that the House of Representatives should do is provide full transparency and assurance to the public that Congress is not turning a blind eye to potential conflicts of interest.” Lowey yesterday offered an amendment to the Committee rules package requiring Administration witnesses testifying before the Committee to provide written certification that they are complying with Ethics Agreements reached with the Office of Government Ethics. These agreements are critical to ensure cabinet secretaries and department heads are divesting and shielding themselves from financial interests that could create an actual or apparent conflict of interest in their official duties. The amendment was rejected on a party-line vote of 22-28. Coming on the heels of the Republican majority’s attempts to undercut the Office of Congressional Ethics and the Office of Government Ethics, the Democrats wrote, “We are extremely concerned that through these actions, both the Congressional majority and the President are sending the signal that ethics and honesty do not matter. They do matter.” FULL LETTER Speaker Ryan: At a time when public trust and confidence in government is perilously low, it is more important than ever to ensure federal officials comport themselves with unimpeachable ethics and are free of personal conflicts of interest in their public responsibilities. That is why we are extremely concerned by the prospect of members of President Trump’s Administration conducting official business prior to coming into full compliance with Ethics Agreements with the Office of Government Ethics. In the coming weeks, the Appropriations Committee will be holding hearings on FY2018 federal spending, as well as writing a FY2017 Appropriations package, given the failure of the 114th Congress to complete this work before the end of 2016. The Administration will make its views and preferences known to Congress about myriad funding levels and policy issues. It appears highly likely that by this time, many Cabinet Secretaries and leaders of other federal agencies will not have been confirmed by the Senate, and will not be in full compliance with Ethics Agreements on file with the Office of Government Ethics. We offered an amendment to the House Appropriations Committee rules package yesterday, requiring Cabinet Secretaries and Department heads testifying before the Committee to provide written certification of having filed a Public Financial Disclosure Report with the Office of Government Ethics, and of coming into full compliance with all Ethics Agreements on file. This is important to assure American citizens and their representatives that the views expressed by the Administration are not unduly influenced by private financial interests. It is extremely disappointing that the majority voted down this commonsense effort. This comes on the heels of the Republican majority’s attempt to gut the Office of Congressional Ethics and threats to subpoena the head of the Office of Government Ethics for criticizing President Trump’s failure to divest from corporate ownership interests, liquidate business assets, and place them in a blind trust. We are extremely concerned that through these actions, both the Congressional majority and the President are sending the signal that ethics and honesty do not matter. They do matter. We urge you to take immediate steps to ensure the House of Representatives does not provide a forum for members of the Trump Administration to take official actions unduly influenced by private financial interests. Sincerely, Nita M. Lowey Marcy Kaptur Peter J. Visclosky José E. Serrano Rosa L. DeLauro David E. Price Lucille Roybal-Allard Sanford Bishop Betty McCollum Tim Ryan Debbie Wasserman Schultz Mike Quigley
01.25.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH), Evan Jenkins (R-WV), Mike Doyle (D-PA) and Peter Welch (D-VT) have introduced legislation to expand retraining opportunities for dislocated coal miners. The bipartisan Assisting America’s Dislocated Miners Act, H.R. 663, would establish a Dislocated Miners Assistance Program at the U.S. Labor Department to identify dislocated miners, assess their skills and training, identify job training programs, and provide grants to job training providers. The bill would also authorize $20 million a year for five years to fund the Dislocated Miners Assistance Program. “Miners across the United States work in difficult and punishing conditions so that our country has the energy and materials it needs to operate on a day-to-day basis. Their work is the reason the lights come on when we flip the switch, and why so many of the products used throughout the day are able to exist. As our energy sector evolves, it is our responsibility, not our choice, to make sure that miners in Ohio and across the country who have worked so hard are not left behind. The investment in training, education and recruitment that this legislation provides for is critical to doing just that. I am proud to support it,” said Rep. Ryan. “While we fight to restore coal jobs in West Virginia and Appalachia, we must also provide for the miners who are out of work and for their families. My bill, the Assisting America’s Dislocated Miners Act, will help us provide retraining opportunities for even more unemployed miners. We can get them back to work in good-paying jobs while also revitalizing our coal communities. My legislation will give our coal families hope and the promise of a paycheck, not an unemployment check,” said Rep. Jenkins. “I’m pleased to join Reps. Jenkins, Welch, and Ryan in reintroducing the Assisting America’s Dislocated Miners Act. I believe that the federal government should help Americans affected by major shifts in the economy. That’s what the Assisting America’s Dislocated Miners Act would do; it would help laid-off coal miners get the training they need to start new careers where they can continue to support their families,” said Rep. Doyle. “Times are tough for coal workers — I saw it first hand when I visited a West Virginia coal mine in 2015 with Rep. David McKinley. For generations, they have risked their lives to keep our homes warm, our factories working, and our lights on. Now it’s time for their country to help them. As our energy landscape changes, Congress has an obligation to ensure displaced workers in the coal industry have the skills and tools they need to transition into meaningful careers in other industries,” said Rep. Welch. United Mine Workers of America Career Centers Executive Director Clemmy Allen said the bill will provide much-needed support for West Virginia’s dislocated miners. “West Virginia coal helped build this great country, but now our coal miners are struggling. At the United Mine Workers of America Career Centers, we are dedicated to helping displaced coal miners learn new skills and find new jobs to support their families. The Assisting America’s Dislocated Coal Miners Act will provide us with steady funding and the certainty needed to offer training to any miner in need. I thank Rep. Jenkins for his leadership on this issue and know that by working together, we can help provide a better future for displaced coal miners and their families,” said Allen. For a one pager on the bill, please click here.
01.24.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan voted today against legislation that would have made the Hyde Amendment permanent (HR7). The Hyde Amendment is a rule banning the use of federal funds to pay for abortion, and has been regularly attached to Appropriations bills since 1976. “Instead of focusing on jobs, instead of rebuilding our infrastructure, instead of bolstering our defenses, Republicans in Congress have chosen to prioritize attacking women’s healthcare at home and abroad. The GOP has moved to make permanent the Hyde Amendment, which has been proven to limit women’s access to comprehensive healthcare, especially if those women are lower income individuals. In fact it is so strict that, women on Medicaid are refused lifesaving services even if her own life is at risk. This harmful precedent must end, not spread to other federal and state programs. “We should be working to make it easier for women and families to receive the support and the care they need to live healthy, full lives – not harder. These decisions are best left to the individuals, their families, and their doctors. Congress has no place in these decisions. Instead of listening to the millions of women who took to the streets across the country to peacefully ask that they be afforded the dignity of making their own healthcare choices, I am dismayed that President Trump and Republican leaders in Congress have so brazenly pressed ahead with their harmful agenda for women’s healthcare,” said Congressman Ryan.
01.24.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today urges President Trump to protect the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS), after news reports stated that the Trump Administration could be considering the elimination of COPS. Find the PDF of Ryan’s letter here. “COPS funding has been extremely important here in Ohio and across the country and I will do everything in my power to ensure that this important program continues. It is our job as leaders to provide our nation’s police officers with the resources and training they need to protect our communities,” said Congressman Ryan. Ryan's full letter can be found below: Dear President Trump: As a Member of Congress, I am deeply concerned about news reports stating that your administration could be considering the elimination of the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS). I implore you to reject any such effort to eliminate this vital program. Since its inception in 1995, the COPS Office has been the primary source of federal investment for more than 13,000 police departments nationwide. The COPS Hiring Program assists law enforcement agencies seeking to hire entry level officers, and has made it possible for 129,000 officers - including many military veterans - to remain on the force. In my home state of Ohio, 648 local and state law enforcement agencies have directly benefited from funding, and 224 school resource officers have been hired to ensure every student has a safe environment in which to learn. Moreover, Ohio leads the nation in opioid-related overdose deaths. Fortunately, the COPS Anti-Heroin Task Force Program and the COPS Anti-Methamphetamine Program provide critical support to state police agencies as they pursue traffickers of heroin, prescription opioids, and methamphetamine. Eliminating these much-needed grant programs would be an enormous blow to state efforts to fight the opioid epidemic. As Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus, I have a responsibility to speak out against cuts to programs that could save lives. Finally, the COPS Community Policing Development Program aids community engagement efforts through funding for training and materials, technical assistance, applied research, and the development of innovative policing strategies and best practices. In Ohio, state and local law enforcement agencies have used these grants to hire an additional 4,074 police officers and sheriff's deputies to engage in community policing activities and crime prevention. Rebuilding the trust between communities and law enforcement will do much to advance public safety, and the elimination of this program would be a betrayal of this national priority. You have publicly stated your commitment to stand up for our law enforcement community, empower our law enforcement officers to do their jobs, and support their mission of protecting the public. You have also stated the belief that "our country needs more law enforcement, more community engagement, and more effective policing." As your administration works to prepare a budget, I hope it will keep these commitments in mind as it decides the future of COPS grants. I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
01.24.2017	
01.23.2017	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan announces $1,541,413.00 to be awarded to the Portage Private Industry Council, Inc. for their Head Start programs. “This grant from the Department of Health and Human Services is welcomed news for Portage County. This critical investment will bring real and lasting good to our community,” said Congressman Ryan. “Head Start has always provided necessary social services – including nutrition and wellness programs for low-income children. These funds will continue vital services that enhance their cognitive, social, and emotional development. Head Start programs are crucial to our nation and community’s most vulnerable children and I am happy that this grant is going to such a good cause.” This grant is part of the Department of Health and Human Services Head Start Projects, with the grant period ending 06/30/2020.
01.23.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) today responded to President Trump reinstating the Global Gag Rule – which was first introduced in 1984 to force health providers eligible for U.S. assistance to choose between receiving U.S. funding or providing comprehensive health care services to their patients. Both the Clinton and Obama Administrations repealed the Global Gag Rule through executive action. Congress has the ability to make this repeal permanent – over the past several years Congressman Ryan has continually supported legislation that would achieve this goal. This year, Congressman Ryan will be an original cosponsor of the Global Health, Empowerment, and Rights (HER) Act when it is introduced in the 115th Congress – this legislation would make the repeal permanent. “Study after study proves that the Global Gag Rule hurts health coverage around the world. We know that when women receive increased access to family planning services and contraception the number of abortions decrease. We should be working to make it easier for women and families to receive the support they need to live healthy, full lives – not harder. I will keep fighting to end this harmful rule once and for all,” said Congressman Ryan. “In the meantime, I urge President Trump to reconsider this decision to restrict reproductive health access abroad, especially immediately after so many hundreds of thousands of women marched across our own country in defense of these important rights.”
01.23.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) made the following statement regarding President Trump’s announced plan to formally withdraw the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP): "Together with my fellow Democratic Colleagues, I have fought for many years against this ill-conceived trade agreement that would hurt American workers. I am proud that our message of bringing jobs back to our country and the need for more voices at the table representing labor resonated with the American people. This deal failed because it lacked the necessary support among Republicans and Democrats in Congress and hardworking men and women. This action confirms what I have been saying my whole career: we need to be prioritizing American manufacturing, industries, and workers. "As President Trump considers renegotiating NAFTA, I call on him to remember the workers of Ohio’s 13th District who have seen their jobs shipped overseas. In my first campaign in 2002, I ran against this trade agreement that upended our manufacturing sector in Ohio and across the United States. This is an opportunity to create a new trade model that creates standards that protect jobs, our environment, human rights, and American workers. Done incorrectly, President Trump’s actions will just as easily make matters worse, doing irreversible and lasting damage. If we allow corporate elites and special interests to dominate the process we will see increased offshoring of jobs, wages continue to be squeezed, and our nation’s inequality gap widen. "I stand ready to work to ensure that any future trade agreements protect American workers and create a better and brighter future for our children."
01.21.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan joined with an estimated 500,000 other activists in the Women’s March on Washington. The organizers of the march have described the event as being open to anyone regardless of gender, gender identity, or politics who believes women’s rights are human rights. The March in Washington was the flagship event, but was a part of a broader movement with events in dozens of cities across the country. “The story of America is full of instances where peaceful demonstration has produced positive, lasting change. Coming together to support a common cause is the American way, and I was thrilled to be given the opportunity to join with women and men alike from across the country to declare without hesitation or equivocation that women’s rights are human rights. At the top of the Women’s March website are posted the words ‘the rise of women = the rise of the nation,’ and that is exactly why we’re here. When women have access to the healthcare they need, the equal pay they deserve, and are treated with respect not only because they are someone’s mother or daughter, but because they’re a human being, we are stronger as a nation. I will always work to ensure that in the United States our daughters are afforded the same opportunities as our sons.”
01.20.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Ryan today attended the Inauguration of Donald J. Trump to be the 45th President of the United States. “The American experiment in democracy has been a beacon of hope for much of the world since it first began some 240 years ago. The peaceful transition of power, especially between opposing parties, has been a hallmark of our democracy that many other nations can only imagine. “I would like to offer up one final thank you to President Obama. His thoughtful and transformative leadership coupled with his genuine passion for helping others has left our country far better off than when he first took office 8 years ago. History will remember President Obama as one of the most consequential figures ever to occupy the Oval Office, and rightfully so. He and his family will be missed. “President Donald Trump has taken office at a time of great uncertainty and division within our country and around the world. I opposed his candidacy. But today, Donald Trump has become the President of the United States – and he will serve all those who live in our country, not just those who supported him. It is my hope that the great weight of this office will give way to a renewed effort to work with both parties to truly improve the lives of hardworking American families. Where he makes an honest effort to do so, I’ll be waiting to work together towards those aims to the best of my ability. And if, or when, he decides to divide, denigrate, or disenfranchise groups of our fellow Americans, I will be the first one standing ready to fight those efforts.”
01.18.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Ryan responds to Republican efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and its impact on rural heath and access to substance abuse treatment in Ohio and across the United States. Congressman Tom Price, President-elect Donald Trump’s nominee for Health and Human Services Secretary, is testifying today before a Senate confirmation hearing. A recent Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) study shows rural Americans are at a higher risk of death from the five leading causes, including heart disease, cancer, chronic lower respiratory disease, stroke and unintentional injury. This study comes out at a time when many rural hospitals are concerned that repealing the Affordable Care Act would cause devastating effects on access to quality care for rural Americans. Rural hospitals have benefitted from the ACA through the expansion of Medicaid in many states. A provision in the ACA also made rural hospitals eligible for the 340B program, which allows hospitals to purchase drugs at a discounted rate and use those savings to increase access. This funding is a lifeline for many rural hospitals and clinics around the country. “Accessing healthcare for many rural communities is already extremely difficult, with many residents more likely to be uninsured, poor, and have to travel long distances to even receive care. This study shows that rural Americans are suffering and these extreme health disparities are having devastating results when it comes to our country’s rural areas. Repealing the Affordable Care Act would put at strain on an already fragile health system by eliminating necessary funding for rural hospitals to provide quality, affordable healthcare,” said Congressman Ryan. Furthermore, our rural communities, especially in Ohio, are also adversely suffering from the ongoing prescription drug and heroin epidemic. Studies released last week from Harvard Medical School and New York University highlights that the ACA has covered more than 220,000 Ohioans suffering from substance abuse or mental health disorders. “Ohio continues to reel from the increase in prescription drug and heroin substance abuse. The ACA has allowed many men and women in our rural communities to receive the services and treatment they need to stay healthy when suffering from addiction. I will not stand by and allow Congressional Republicans to pull the rug out from these families and eliminate healthcare from the men and women who are struggling every day. Every week studies are being released, including the most recent report from the Congressional Budget Office, that show the devastating impact repealing the ACA will have on communities around the country. I ask Congressional Republicans and Congressman Price to read these studies, listen to their constituents, and fully understand the risk and chaos they are creating when they eliminate healthcare for millions of Americans. ” said Congressman Ryan. A recent CBO report released yesterday shows that the number of people uninsured would increase by 18 million in the first year following the enactment of the ACA repeal. Furthermore, premiums would increase by 20 to 25 percent following the repeal.
01.17.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement regarding President-Elect Donald Trump’s nominee to lead the Department of Education, Betsy DeVos – who is testifying before a Senate confirmation hearing today. DeVos previously led the school-choice advocacy group, All Children Matter, which lobbies on behalf of for-profit charter schools and has worked to redirect funds away from the very public schools she would now be tasked with managing. Under DeVos’s stewardship, All Children Matter’s political arm knowingly violated Ohio State election law by engaging in unlawful political donations through their Ohio affiliate totaling upwards of $870,000. The fines owed to the state from her organization as a result of those actions amount to some $5.3 million, and have yet to be paid. “For much of our nation’s history, access to a quality public education has been the great equalizer – empowering all citizens to have a shot at a better life for themselves and their families. There’s no investment more important than those we make in our children.” Congressman Ryan said. “They are our future and will be responsible for the next wave of economic, scientific, and cultural achievement. It is for this reason that I raise the strongest possible objection to the nomination of Betsy DeVos to become the next leader of the Department of Education. We need someone at the Department of Education who believes that public education is a universal right for everyone regardless of race, creed or sexual orientation.” Congressman Ryan also added, “Beyond her unacceptable views on the role public education has in our society, the American people expect more from their highest officials. She should immediately pay the fines owed to Ohio after she broke our state’s election laws, and do everything necessary to submit the proper financial and ethical disclosures to the U.S. Senate. To this point she’s made little to no effort to do either. I cannot in good conscience support her ascent to lead this important department in the incoming administration.”
01.13.2017	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today voted against the House Budget Resolution, which begins the process to repeal the Affordable Care Act. “It was without hesitation that today, as I have done dozens of times, voted against legislation that would begin the process to repeal the Affordable Care Act. The ACA has helped millions of Americans gain health coverage since its passage, including those who can no longer be denied for pre-existing conditions and those young adults who can now stay on their parents’ plan until the age of 26. My constituents in Ohio need jobs, and they need healthcare. By simply repealing this law, Republicans are turning their backs on the men and women of northeastern Ohio struggling to make ends meet.” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “There is no doubt that the ACA can be improved upon, but that doesn’t mean we should throw the whole thing out and leave millions upon millions of Americans with higher premiums, less coverage or no insurance at all. Instead of causing this immense, manufactured chaos for purely political purposes, let’s work together, fix what’s broken and keep what works. That’s what being a leader is all about.” Repealing the ACA is expected to cause upwards of 30 million people to lose their health insurance, and cause massive increases in premiums for millions more. Repeal is also projected to cost the United States more than 3 million jobs.
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-D) today joined more than 70 Members of the House of Representatives in introducing the National Infrastructure Development Bank Act. The bill would create and fund a public bank to leverage public and private dollars to help rebuild roads, highways, bridges, and environmental and energy projects of national or regional significance. “Experts have found that we need to invest $3.6 trillion by 2020 to bring our infrastructure up to a state of good repair. Infrastructure investments spur economic development by making areas safe and attractive for new businesses. Our energy grids are failing, our sewers are leaking, and our roads and bridges are crumbling.,” said Congressman Ryan. “We must act now on this vital legislation if we want the United States to remain a leader in global innovation.” The legislation, modeled after the European Investment Bank, would leverage private sector dollars from institutional investors, such as pension funds, to supplement current funding in our nation’s infrastructure. It would provide loans and loan guarantees to projects, and issue Public Benefit Bonds with proceeds to fund projects, and make payments to help states and localities cover their bond interest payments. The National Infrastructure Bank would finance surface transportation projects, as well as energy, environmental, and telecommunications projects. The bank would consider each project’s economic and environmental impacts, social benefits, and costs objectively before selecting projects to finance.
01.13.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today ascended to a Ranking Member position on an Appropriations Subcommittee. Ryan becomes the highest ranking Democrat on the Legislative Branch Appropriations Subcommittee, which controls the purse strings of the Legislative Branch of the United States – including spending on the House of Representatives, Congressional Budget Office, Government Accountability Office, and Capitol Police. Ryan has also been named to the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Subcommittee (MIL-CON), which controls spending on military construction projects, base realignment and closure, and the Department of Veterans Affairs. Ryan will continue to serve on the Defense Subcommittee and rises to the third most senior Democrat on the Subcommittee. The Defense Subcommittee controls spending of the United States Department of Defense, including: Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, Central Intelligence Agency, and Intelligence Community Staff. “I am proud to have joined the ranks of Democratic Leadership on the powerful House Appropriations Committee. I look forward to using my position to promote the projects and policies that will lift up hardworking Americans and ensure that our military has the resources it needs to defend our nation. My seat on the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Subcommittee – which has jurisdiction over the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process – will allow me to push for robust funding for our military bases so our soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines remain the best-trained and best-equipped force in the world,” said Congressman Ryan. “I will also use my jurisdiction over the Department of Veterans Affairs to ensure our veterans are always taken care of and given the benefits they rightly deserve,” said Congressman Ryan. Ryan’s Subcommittee Jurisdictions: Legislative Branch Subcommittee Defense Subcommittee Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Subcommittee
01.12.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today rejected President-elect Donald Trump’s announcement to ignore the council of the Office of Governmental Ethics and refuse presidential precedence of divesting corporate interests, liquidating business assets and placing them in a blind trust. “President-elect Trump’s blatant refusal to ignore our nation’s bipartisan ethics office and throw aside decades of presidential precedence is reprehensible and leaves our nation extremely vulnerable to corruption. Throughout the campaign, I heard President-elect Trump talk about ‘draining the swamp’, yet nearly every decision he has made since the election has severely reduced transparency and created an environment for corruption to flourish,” said Congressman Ryan.“The presidency of the United States is too important to leave susceptible to such blatant conflicts of interest. It is time for Donald Trump to put the American people before his business interests. The President has the responsibility to strengthen our country and lead it toward a better tomorrow, this is the first step towards those goals.” "The president is now entering a world of public service," said Walter Schaub, Director of the Office of Government Ethics in a speech at the Brookings Institution. "He's going to be asking his own appointees to make sacrifices. He's going to be asking our men and women in uniform to risk their lives in conflicts around the world. So no, I don't think divestiture is too high a price to pay to be the president of the United States of America." Ryan is a cosponsor of H.Con.Res.178 – which clarifies any potential misunderstanding as to whether actions taken by President-elect Donald Trump constitute a violation of the Emoluments Clause, and calling on President-elect Trump to divest his interest in, and sever his relationship to, the Trump Organization.
01.11.2017	Washington, DC – Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH), Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI), Paul Tonko (D-NY) and Dave Joyce (R-OH) announces new Co-Chairs of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus. Rep. Sensenbrenner is the new Republican Co-Chair and Rep. Joyce is the new Republican Vice-Chair – Rep. Ryan remains the Democratic Co-Chair and Rep. Tonko remains as the Democratic Vice-Chair. This important Caucus works to educate and raise awareness among lawmakers about addiction prevention, treatment and substance abuse. Opioid deaths have surpassed 30,000 for the first time in history, while nearly 88,000 people die from alcohol-related causes each year. Substance abuse costs our nation $600 billion in health care, criminal justice, and lost productivity costs, but that is nothing compared to the toll it takes on our families and friends. Preventing the further spread of this epidemic is essential to our nation’s complete recovery. The Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus aims to stop these devastating trends by bringing awareness to this cause and changing the stigma associated with addiction and mental illness. “I welcome Representatives Sensenbrenner and Joyce in joining Representative Tonko and myself as Chairs of the Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus. Their leadership and expertise will help our Caucus to continue to tackle the difficult and complex issues of addiction and substance abuse in the United States. I have always been proud of the collaborative and bipartisan nature of our Caucus and I look forward to continuing this important work in the 115th Congress,” said Rep. Ryan. “The dramatic rise in heroin and opioid addiction is causing devastation throughout the United States, ruining thousands of lives and destroying entire communities in its wake. I look forward to continuing the fight against addiction through the work of this caucus, and together with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, I’m optimistic we can pass serious, common-sense solutions to help every American suffering under the weight of addiction,” said Rep. Sensenbrenner. “Addiction is a devastating illness that destroys lives and tears families apart. Communities in my home state of New York and throughout our country are struggling to keep up with the rapid spread of dangerous new drugs into local schools, offices, community spaces, and every corner of our lives. There has never been a more important time for serious public policy leaders to work in a bipartisan manner to combat this national epidemic. I welcome Representatives James Sensenbrenner and Dave Joyce to their new roles co-chairing the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus with Congressman Tim Ryan and myself and look forward to a constructive term working with them on this important national issue,” said Rep. Tonko. “When I was a prosecuting attorney, I saw first-hand the havoc inflicted by addiction. Now, it seems that not a day goes by without some new article or story about its devastating effects. Addiction is truly a country-wide epidemic, and it has been particularly harmful to communities back in my home state of Ohio. While the House has taken important steps regarding addiction treatment and the stigma attached to addiction, there is still more to be done. Addiction is a disease, and those who are suffering need our help,” said Rep. Joyce.
01.10.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement today after the Senate’s Attorney General confirmation hearing for Senator Jeff Sessions: “Americans expect the Department of Justice to uphold the law and fight for justice on their behalf. Under the leadership of Attorneys General Eric Holder and Loretta Lynch, the Department of Justice has fought to protect LGBTQ people from marriage and employment discrimination, expand and defend the rights of ALL Americans to exercise their right to vote, advocate for the rights of immigrants and workers who help grow and enrich our great nation, and work to improve police-community relations. “It is hard to think of a more consequential department in the lives of everyday Americans. That is why I am so gravely concerned about the nomination of Senator Jeff Sessions to serve as our next Attorney General of the United States. Senator Sessions has a demonstrated record of hostility towards civil rights and racial justice. He has opposed many efforts to advance equality for women, African Americans, LGBTQ Americans, workers, immigrants and religious minorities. “During today’s confirmation hearing, Senator Sessions continually attempted to rewrite history regarding these important issues. His failure to provide clear and honest ethics disclosures and reasoning for past decisions proves why the Senate should not confirm his appointment to serve as Attorney General. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to vote down his nomination.”
12.13.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) made the following statement after Governor John Kasich signed the 20 week abortion ban into law – which does not include any exception for rape or incest. "I am extremely disappointed Governor Kasich signed this controversial and restrictive bill into law. Ohio women deserve better. This law is a continuation of Governor Kasich’s assault on women’s reproductive health in our state – making this the 18th law he has signed that restricts the rights of Ohio women. "There are too many scenarios, too many variables and too much complexity for pregnancy to be anything but a personal decision – and the vast majority of those faced with this difficult situation at 20 weeks are carrying a fetus that the doctor has told them has no chance of surviving. Under this Ohio law, a woman who learns during a routine 20 week ultrasound that the fetus has no lungs or no brain will be forced to go through months of agony and carry to term. I cannot imagine the emotional and physical heartbreak that so many woman in these situations must feel, but I do know that Governor Kasich didn’t think of them when he signed this law. These situations are hard to talk about and extremely difficult, but the ultimate decision should be made by women and families, not government officials."
12.13.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) made the following statement regarding President-elect Donald Trump’s nomination of ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson for Secretary of State: “I am extremely disappointed that President-elect Trump has nominated ExxonMobile CEO Rex Tillerson to be the face of our nation on the world stage. Even more offensive than his utter lack of experience is his close ties with Vladimir Putin and Russia, which should immediately disqualify Mr. Tillerson for the position of Secretary of State. As mounting evidence continues to come to light from the U.S. intelligence community regarding Russia influencing our election to favor President-elect Trump and Russia’s continued brazen disregard for international law, we must remain vigilant in protecting our national interests. I call on the Senate to refuse to confirm Mr. Tillerson for this post, and I call on President-elect Trump to nominate a Secretary of State who will stand up to Vladimir Putin and Russia and fight for American values.”
12.09.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today calls on Governor John Kasich to veto the 20-week abortion ban passed by the Ohio legislature. This is the second time this week that Ryan has been forced to call on Governor Kasich to veto anti-choice legislation. “I’m appalled that for the second time in two days I am forced to call on Governor Kasich to veto legislation that strips reproductive health rights away from Ohio women and families. The Republican-led Ohio legislature knows that these measures are unconstitutional. They know these bills will make it harder for Ohioans to get the coverage they need. Yet they continue to take away the rights of families across our great state, while giving the government the final say in important health care decisions. We need to trust women and families – not politicians – to make the best decisions for their lives.” Yesterday Congressman Ryan called on Governor Kasich to veto controversial abortion legislation that bans abortion after six weeks in Ohio. Find the release here.
12.09.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan decries the passage of House Bill 554, which extends a “freeze” on Ohio’s renewable energy standards. “At a time when Ohio is in desperate need for new, good paying jobs, allowing this bill to go into effect would be irresponsible and foolish. We know that the resuscitation of our manufacturing base will be partly driven through a reinvestment in a renewable energy economy, yet Ohio Republicans continue to bury their heads in the sand. There are over 8,000 component parts in the standard wind turbine, these are parts that could be manufactured and assembled right here in Ohio. Instead of doubling down on fossil fuels, we should be increasing investment in these alternate sources of energy in a way that drives economic growth and innovation, helps lower utility bills for hard working men and women in our state, and leaves a cleaner, safer environment for future generations. I call on Governor Kasich to do what is right for our state and veto this bill.”
12.09.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) is pleased to announce that Pranav Padmanabhan, an 11th grader from Boardman High School, is the winner of the Congressional App Challenge for Ohio’s 13th Congressional District. Padmanabhan’s app, called the PolitiViewr, provides voters with non-partisan political information and knowledge about their local races and aims to increase voter turnout among eligible voters, while helping people make informed decisions at the polls. Padmanabhan’s app will be displayed in the United States Capitol along with other winning submissions from around the nation. His winning application was judged by an independent panel and was based on factors such as quality of the app's operations, implementation of the app's concept, and demonstrated excellence of coding and programming skills.“I want to congratulate Pranav for his work on this worthwhile project, whose aim is to bring more people into the political process and provide them the necessary skills to make good decisions,” said Congressman Ryan. “I also want to commend the goals of the Congressional App Challenge, which is to ensure continued growth and innovation in the science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) fields and to encourage students to excel in those occupations. By 2018 we are going to need up to three million new highly-skilled workers in the STEM field, and it is crucial that we make every effort to provide students with an opportunity to develop the skills necessary for tomorrow’s job market.”"I am grateful to the Congressional App Challenge, Congressman Ryan, and my computer science teacher, Mrs. Stanton, for giving me the opportunity to learn and improve my programming skills in a creative way,” said Pranav. “I am passionate about both technology and politics, and I hope that my app, PolitiViewr, can help better our democracy by informing voters about issues and candidates." The Congressional App Challenge is designed to inspire student creativity and encourage participation in STEM education fields in order to address America’s need to develop a domestic pipeline of STEM and computer programming talent, and thus fill critical roles in the information economy. The Congressional App Challenge is partnering with a growing list of STEM, education, library and community organizations to reach as many high school students as possible, with particular efforts to reach teens from groups that are typically underrepresented in technology.
12.08.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today in response to John Glenn passing away at the age of 95: “I am deeply saddened by the passing of John Glenn. My thoughts and prayers are with his wife Annie, his family, and the countless others who are mourning this great loss. “John Glenn was a decorated World War II Marine Corps Fighter Pilot who broke the transcontinental speed record. A pioneer astronaut who was the first American to orbit the earth, and he later became the oldest man in space at the age of 77. He was a distinguished statesman who represented Ohio in the United States Senate. But most importantly, he was a family man who married his childhood sweetheart, Annie, and enjoyed spending time with his family and friends. “I count myself lucky to have had the opportunity to spend some time with Senator Glenn and I will cherish those moments for the rest of my life. Today is a sad day for the State of Ohio and for the United States of America. John Glenn was an American hero and his life and legacy will never be forgotten.”
12.08.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today made the following statement after voting in favor of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (WRDA), which authorizes water resources development projects and includes Congressman Ryan’s legislation to create the position of a Great Lakes algal bloom coordinator. This bill also authorizes funding to help address the public health crisis in Flint, Michigan and finally help these communities get access to clean drinking water. “I’m proud that the House of Representatives passed the WRDA bill that contained my legislation to finally create a coordinator within the EPA to defend our fresh water from harmful algal blooms. Our state’s abundance of fresh water is a vital resource and strategic advantage, and it’s our duty as Ohioans to ensure Lake Erie and the Great Lakes are able to continue to thrive. Harmful algal blooms in the Great Lakes have affected over a half million Ohioans in recent years. “Lake Erie supports over 117,000 fulltime jobs and provides drinking water to approximately 3 million Ohioans. This bipartisan legislation would encourage the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to designate a coordinator to work with federal, state, tribal, and local governments. I will continue to work with my colleagues from the Great Lakes region to combat these harmful algal blooms that threaten the health and well-being of our state. “Safety is, and always will be, my number one priority. It is outrageous that the community of Flint, Michigan has had to wait over two years to get the critical resources needed to address this public health crisis. Clean drinking water is not a privilege, but a right for all Americans. I am pleased this legislation responds accordingly by authorizing up to $150 million for improving the Flint’s water infrastructure. “However, I was disappointed that this legislation only established ‘Buy America’ requirements for drinking water infrastructure projects for one year. Now is the time that we should be doing everything in our power to create jobs at home, and that means strengthening and expanding ‘Buy America’ provisions.”
12.08.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) today made the following statement after voting against the Fiscal Year 2017 Continuing Resolution; which only funds the United States government though April 28, 2017. This legislation failed to include the bipartisan Miners Protection Act. “I voted against this legislation because Republicans in Congress refused to include provisions that would give retirement security to 22,500 coal miners in Ohio and across the country who will lose their health coverage and pensions in the new year. To leave them out of this bill is heartless and wrong. These men and women now have to worry about how they are going to pay their medical bills or put dinner on the table this holiday season."
12.08.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan calls on Governor John Kasich to veto controversial abortion legislation that bans abortion after six weeks in the State of Ohio: “In the late hours of Tuesday evening, the Ohio Senate and House passed legislation that would ban abortion six weeks into a pregnancy. Don’t be fooled, this is a ban on virtually all abortions in the State of Ohio. Not only is this dangerous bill a risk to women’s health, it is unconstitutional. I call on Governor Kasich to veto this legislation immediately. I will not stand by and allow Ohio to become the most punitive and regressive state in the country when it comes to reproductive health. We need to trust women and families – not politicians – to make the best decisions for their lives.”
12.08.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) made the following statement today in response to President-elect Trump’s nomination of Andrew Puzder for Secretary of Labor: “President-elect Trump has chosen an enemy of working people to be in charge of the very department tasked to protect them. To say I am disappointed and angered by this decision would be an understatement. If Mr. Puzder is confirmed, he will become the least experienced Secretary of Labor since the 1980s. This is a man who has spent his career speaking out against worker protections; he opposes expanding eligibility for overtime pay; and he opposes any increase in the minimum wage. Mr. Puzder receives an annual base salary of over $1 million a year, while many of his employees are, in fact, making the minimum wage and barely getting by. How is this the person we are tapping to have the backs of the American people?”
12.05.2016	“I am proud to support the FY 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which passed the House of Representatives today, ensuring that our military men and women have the tools they need to do their job and keep our country safe. There were things in the Authorization that I did not support, such as the continued restrictions on the closure of the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay. However, I was happy to vote to provide our servicemen and servicewomen a pay raise of 2.1 percent and satisfied that the bill forbids an additional round of Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC). I was very pleased with an amendment added in the Senate by Senators Sherrod Brown and Rob Portman which directs the Air Force to spell out how it will prioritize C-130 upgrades—an important issue for Youngstown Air Reserve Station. The senators’ amendment dovetails with a provision of my own included in the FY 2017 Defense Appropriations report that directs the Air Force to prioritize units with the oldest equipment when deciding which specialty missions to upgrade. The strength of our military is unchallenged, but an unstable world can bring dangerous threats to which we must respond. It is our task as Members of Congress to ensure that our troops have what they need to carry out their mission. I voted for this Defense Authorization because I believe it does that.”
12.01.2016	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan is today announcing the successful certification of Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) for approximately 250 laid-off workers at Delphi Automotive Systems, who were engaged in activities related to the production of automotive components. This certification includes on-site leased workers from the Bartech Group. TAA will assist workers in their search for re-employment through income support, training, assistance with healthcare premium costs, employment and case management services, and may include job search and relocation allowances.“This is another example of jobs unfairly lost due to foreign subsidized competition that hurt our communities. These men and women lost their jobs through no fault of their own, and when this happens, it is our responsibility to give them the opportunity to get back on their feet. I am pleased that the employees of Delphi and Bartech will get the support they deserve in this difficult time,” said Congressman Ryan. The Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) Program is a federal program that assists US workers who have lost their jobs as a result of foreign trade. The program provides trade-affected workers with opportunities to obtain the skills, resources, and support they need to become reemployed. For example, Trade Readjustment Allowances will provide income support while workers are participating in full-time training, which may include classroom and/or on the-job training, customized training, post-secondary education, prerequisite education or coursework and remedial education. The cost of training is paid to the training provider by the State with TAA Program funds.
11.30.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement today on the re-election of Nancy Pelosi as Leader of the House Democratic Caucus: First, I want to congratulate Nancy Pelosi on her re-election. As I’ve said throughout this process, I respect and care for Leader Pelosi and look forward to working with her to promote a progressive agenda for the country. That includes raising wages and creating jobs for working families; protecting the progress we’ve made for women, minorities, and those in the LGBTQ community; and defending Americans from any President-elect Trump proposal that would threaten their rights or ability to provide for their loved ones. I’d like to thank the members who stood with me throughout this process, because they, too, saw that change needed to be embraced—I’m forever grateful for that support. I also want to thank every member of the Democratic Caucus for listening to my message and for their frank discussions and ideas on how we can improve our party I ran for Leader because I believe strongly in the promise of the Democratic Party, but November taught us that changes were necessary. Our party’s losses showed our Caucus that we needed to have a serious conversation about our path forward and open the door for new reforms and voices in Democratic Leadership. I am proud that my bid for Democratic Leader pushed our members to have these tough family discussions about our future and how we win back the majority in 2018. I am also pleased to see that Leader Pelosi will adopt my proposal to expand leadership by creating a position for Freshman members and to bring back the power to the Committees by creating Vice-Chair/Vice- Ranking Member positions. While I still believe our Caucus can do more to decentralize the power of leadership, these are steps in the right direction. I believe that fostering new ideas from new voices is a crucial step toward developing our Caucus and winning back the House. However, it is clear as we learn more about the outcome of our elections that we’re ignoring crucial voices that deserve to be heard. The people I represent in Northeast Ohio and the tens of millions of workers across our country are proud to be called blue collar. Democrats must adopt a progressive economic message that focuses on large, direct infrastructure investments, affordable health care, portable pensions, and public-private investments that promote advanced manufacturing. Hopelessness is a product of economic and social adversity. That is why Democrats must always be the party of aspiration and inclusion. To ensure that every member of our Caucus is included in the discussion to move our party forward, we all must continue to push for open discussion and to strengthen our outreach to working families and institute the reforms necessary to evolve as a Party and win back the trust of American voters.”
11.29.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement criticizing President-elect Trump’s selection of Tom Price as Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). “It is incredibly troubling that President-elect Trump has selected a Secretary of Health and Human Services who has dedicated himself to repealing reforms that gave 20 million Americans access to health insurance and disallowed insurance companies from discriminating against citizens with pre-existing conditions. Further, while millions of seniors depend on Medicare, Dr. Price continues his campaign to end the Medicare guarantee by turning it into a voucher program. “If Dr. Price is going to defend the health and wellbeing of America’s citizens, he needs to abandon these destructive policies and, instead, work with Democrats to protect Medicare; lower prescription drug costs; ensure every citizen access to affordable health insurance; and defend a women’s right to make her own health decisions—without incurring unreasonable costs or hurdles.”
11.29.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) released the following statement in support of the water protectors at Standing Rock: “I offer my full support to the Standing Rock water protectors and their right as American citizens to peacefully protest. The First Amendment is a sacred promise to our citizens that cannot be broken and must continue to be defended. But water cannons and rubber bullets should not be used against Americans who had peacefully assembled. I call on the Justice Department to investigate these actions to determine if excessive force was used against American citizens and to ensure that no rights are violated moving forward. “Further, the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe has every right to want assurance that their drinking water will remain safe. The U.S. Government must sit down with the Standing Rock Sioux, listen to their legitimate concerns, and reach an agreement that is acceptable to all parties.”
11.28.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to Leader Nancy Pelosi’s proposed Democratic Caucus reforms: It is evident that Leader Pelosi’s proposed reforms will only serve to further consolidate her power over the Caucus. There is a clear desire among our members to democratize and decentralize the Democratic Caucus by returning more power to our rank and file members and Committees. Importantly, Leader Pelosi should strongly consider requiring the DCCC Chair be elected in the same manner as the top five members of our leadership—a reform that would ensure the DCCC Chair is not just accountable to the Leader but to the Caucus as a whole. It would be helpful to remember that the DCCC works for us and our candidates, we do not work for it. As Democrats, we need to take a hard look at our current campaign model, because we keep losing. We need to reduce the DCCC’s command and control approach, whereby consultants in Washington, DC with little or no local connections are making decisions for campaigns in big cities, small towns, and rural areas of America. We have to create a new model for competing and winning anywhere. Leader Pelosi has also, unfortunately, proposed changing the role of Assistant Democratic Leader—a position which plays an integral role in our Leadership. That is why my proposed reforms would not change this position, but instead would add to the current leadership team a new, elected position reserved for members with three terms or less. Again, this position will be directly elected. We must continue our efforts to decentralize the power in Caucus so every member is a part of the team and plays a role in shaping our future. Finally, members are concerned about our path forward on Wednesday. There must be clarification of the rules and procedures that will be in place to address the many changes that have been proposed by Leader Pelosi.
11.23.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan was pleased to receive the endorsement of Representatives Marcia Fudge (OH), Kurt Schrader (OR) and Jim Cooper for Minority Leader. “I am proud to receive these additional endorsements from my colleagues for my bid for Democratic Leader. Their support shows that there is a growing consensus within our Caucus that we need change. I will continue to champion a multicultural, progressive, and innovative vision for America as well as my plans to send the best and brightest stars within our party to the states and districts where our message needs to be heard the most. Together, we will win back a Democratic majority in 2018,” said Ryan. Representatives Ed Perlmutter (CO) and Kathleen Rice (NY) endorsed Ryan earlier in the week.
11.21.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) today announces proposed reforms for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC): “The regressive agenda we can expect from President Trump and Congressional Republicans means that our party cannot afford to fall short of reclaiming our majority in 2018,” said Ryan. “Like any winning team success starts with good recruiting. We need to get back to our grassroots in how we find and support new candidates and how we integrate all members of our Caucus in that process.” CHANGING HOW WE RECRUIT FOR A NEW CONGRESSIONAL MAJORITY Currently, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC) Chair is handpicked by the Democratic Leader and then ratified by a vote of the full Caucus. If elected Democratic Leader I will seek a change in Caucus rules to require the DCCC Chair be elected in the same manner as the top five members of our Leadership (Leader, Whip, Assistant Democratic Leader, Caucus Chair, and Vice Chair). Every region in our Caucus must have a voice at the DCCC if we are to draw on the expertise of Members who already know how best to get elected in their region. If elected Democratic Leader, I will ask that each of our 12 regions select a Member to represent their region as a DCCC Vice-Chair. These Vice-Chairs would assist the DCCC Chair in recruiting candidates and retaining Members from every region. The DCCC must not lose touch with the perspective and energy of our newest Members. If elected Democratic Leader, I would ask that the Freshman Class appoint a Freshman Advisor to the DCCC Chair. As a Caucus, all Members need to play an important role in how we recruit, support and engage upcoming candidates. As Democratic Leader, I will work with the DCCC to create a Congressional Mentorship Program that will connect current Members with candidates around the country. This program will provide Democratic candidates with campaigning, fundraising, and overall strategy advice from experienced Members of our Caucus. We must do a better job supporting candidates earlier in the election cycle. We cannot wait until the final months before Election Day to get active in Congressional races. If elected Democratic Leader, I will work with the DCCC Chair to ensure we are doing a better job of assisting candidates earlier—including not only financial help but also simply providing more extensive technical advice and tools.
11.20.2016	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan harshly rebuked the hate and bigotry of Donald Trump’s presidential appointments, including Jeff Sessions as Attorney General, Michael Flynn as National Security Advisor, and Steve Bannon as Chief White House Strategist. “It’s incredibly disappointing that Donald Trump has chosen to continue the divisiveness of his campaign by appointing to his administration open racists, xenophobes, and misogynists,” Ryan said. “If we are going to bring the country together, there can be no place in the White House for an Attorney General who opposes civil rights, a National Security Advisor who spreads fear about an entire religion, and a Chief White House Strategist who gives a platform to the hatred and bigotry of the alt-right. Let me be clear: Jeff Sessions, Michael Flynn, and Steve Bannon will never be welcomed in my office if I am elected Minority Leader; and I will fight every day to prevent the Trump Administration’s destructive ideas from tearing our country further apart.” Sessions has called the Voting Rights Act of 1965 a “piece of intrusive legislation” and was rejected from a federal judgeship by a Republican-controlled Senate because of the testimony by former colleagues that he was a racist. Flynn is an ardent Islamophobe who urges Americans to be fearful of Muslims, lies about the spread of Sharia law in the United States, and advocates ignoring Vladimir Putin’s human rights abuses in order to work with him on defeating Islamic militants. As executive chairman of Breitbart News, Bannon is the leader of the alt-right movement and its xenophobic, misogynistic, and racist ideology. Bannon’s ex-wife has also sworn during testimony that he refused to allow their children to go to school with Jews.
11.19.2016	WASHINGTON, DC —Today, U.S. Representative Tim Ryan (D-OH) offered the following statement about the death of Jovan Wilson: “I’m once again saddened to learn that another American has tragically lost his life to gun violence—especially at such a young age. I offer my prayers and heartfelt condolences to Jovan’s family and my friend and colleague, Rep. Davis.”
11.19.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today released his proposed reforms for the House Democratic Caucus. The Democratic Party cannot move forward and win back our majority unless we decentralize the power of our Party Leadership and bring it back to all Members. Each and every Member brings to Congress ideas for how we can shape our Party and our country for the 21st Century, and it is time our Leadership recognized that every member of our Caucus must play a role. Ryan will work immediately to enact these reforms if elected to serve as Democratic Leader. DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS REFORMS FOR INCREASING THE NUMBER OF VOICES IN CAUCUS AND COMMITTEE LEADERSHIP If elected as Democratic Leader, I will split the duties of the Steering and Policy Committee between a Democratic Steering Committee and a new Democratic Committee on Policy Innovation. With a significant number of seats reserved for young members, members in competitive districts and reflecting the diversity of our Caucus, the Democratic Committee on Policy Innovation will become our Caucus’ “Idea Factory”—ensuring the Democratic Party is always seen by the American people as the Party of Ideas. This Committee’s work will help translate our policies into electoral success. As Democratic Leader I will immediately create, beginning in the 115th Congress, an elected-leadership position reserved only for Members with three terms or less. This person will also have a seat on the Democratic Steering Committee. I will work with our Committee Ranking Members to create the role of Vice-Chairs/Vice-Ranking Members of Committees. The Vice-Chair position will be an opportunity for additional Members to take part in decision-making, have their voices heard, assume additional responsibility, and increase their national profile. The Vice-Chairs will also have representation on the Democratic Steering Committee or the Democratic Committee on Policy Innovation. The Democratic Policy and Communications Committee—currently Chaired by retiring Representative Steve Israel—should be renamed the Democratic Committee on Message Strategy, headed by two Co-Chairs, and focused on ensuring that our best messengers in Congress are given the resources they need to advance the Caucus’ message nationally. Members of the Democratic Committee on Message Strategy will be tasked as Issue Ambassadors working hand-in-hand with the newly created Democratic Committee on Policy Innovation and the Democratic Leader’s office to find new and innovative ways to communicate with the American people.
11.19.2016	Washington, DC -- U.S. Representative Tim Ryan (D-Niles) released the following statement following today’s announcement that President elect Donald Trump will pay $25 million to the victims of his fraudulent Trump University: Today’s announcement confirms what we already knew: Donald Trump made millions of dollars conning thousands of veterans, single mothers, and low income families through his fake university. These were hardworking students who wanted nothing more than to improve their lives and the lives of their loved ones. But Trump proved once again that he simply can’t be trusted to put Americans’ best interests before his own. In order to ensure that all Americans have the opportunity to succeed, Congress must fight to protect consumers so they can’t be preyed on by greedy individuals and corporations. We must fight for legislation that makes college more affordable so men and women around the country aren’t stifled by debt and can pursue their dreams.” Trump has been the focus of two federal class-action suits for defrauding more than 5,000 students out of more than $40 million through Trump University. Trump University used high-pressure sales tactics and deceptive claims about what would be learned to convince students to enroll and agree to up to $35,000 in tuition. But while Trump profited, working Americans were left with staggering debt and no education or credits.
11.17.2016	Washington, DC: Congressman Tim Ryan sent the following letter to his colleagues in the House Democratic Caucus announcing his intention to run for Democratic Leader in leadership elections scheduled for November 30th. Dear Democratic Colleague, Last Tuesday’s election will forever be remembered as a major turning point for the United States of America. Like many Americans I was disheartened by the results, but I also realized that Democrats must not let this opportunity for change pass by without a fight. I have spent countless hours meeting and talking to Members of our Caucus, and the consensus is clear. What we are doing right now is not working. Under our current leadership, Democrats have been reduced to our smallest congressional minority since 1929. This should indicate to all of us that keeping our leadership team completely unchanged will simply lead to more disappointment in future elections. Over the last 18 years, Democrats have only been in the majority of the House of Representatives for two terms and last week’s election results set us back even further. We have lost over 60 seats since 2010. We have the fewest Democrats in state and federal offices since Reconstruction. At this time of fear and disillusionment, we owe it to our constituencies to listen and bring a new voice into leadership. The American people need to know we understand that they elected us to fight for economic opportunity for all. We need to create America 2.0 --- a multicultural, progressive, and innovative country that fights every day for ordinary people. While having a position in Democratic Leadership has never been my life’s ambition, after this election I believe we all need to re-evaluate our roles within the Caucus, the Democratic Party, and our country. That is why I am announcing my run for Minority Leader of the Democratic Caucus and humbly request your support. In the days and weeks ahead, I will put forward policies and ideas to help us energize the diverse base of our party, and fight the intolerance and dangers that President-elect Trump represents. I expect the entire Caucus to hold me accountable. That is why if I am successful I will not serve again without the support of two-thirds of the Caucus. We need more voices at the Democratic Leadership table. Every member of our Caucus must play an important role in the future of our party and our country. Vote for me and I will dedicate all of my energy to lead us back into the majority. Our constituents deserve nothing less. Thank you for your support. Sincerely, Tim Ryan
11.14.2016	WARREN, OH – U.S. Representative Tim Ryan and Sen. Sherrod Brown helped launch the White House’s “My Brother’s Keeper” program in Warren today. The local initiative helps prepare students for college and career readiness. Ryan and Brown joined community leaders and a group of Mahoning Valley mentors and mentees during the launch at Kent State University’s Trumbull Campus. “I am proud to help kick-off the My Brother’s Keeper Initiative here in Warren,” said Ryan. “Every young person in our community deserves the same chance at success, regardless of where they start in life. This program will be instrumental for our young people receive the education and training they need to find good paying jobs and lead fulfilling lives.” “Ohio is losing future doctors, engineers, teachers, and entrepreneurs because of an opportunity gap,” said Brown. “My Brother’s Keeper is about building strong children, who will grow into the leaders of the future, and who won’t be bound by a society that has too often been set up to hold them back.” The local My Brother’s Keeper initiative will work to connect male students of color with community leaders through mentoring relationships and educational events. This program is aligned with the White House’s My Brother’s Keeper national initiative and its goal to ensure that all youth receive a quality high school education and graduate with the skills and tools needed to advance to postsecondary education or training. In September 2014, President Obama issued a challenge to cities across the country to become “MBK Communities.” This challenge represents a call to action and encourages communities to implement a coherent cradle-to-college-and-career strategy for improving the life outcomes of all young people to ensure that they can reach their full potential, regardless of who they are, where they come from, or the circumstances into which they are born. Nearly 200 mayors, tribal leaders, and county executives across 43 states and the District of Columbia have accepted the MBK Community Challenge. The six goals of the Challenge are: Ensuring all children enter school cognitively, physically, socially, and emotionally ready; Ensuring all children read at grade level by 3rd grade; Ensuring all youth graduate from high school; Ensuring all youth complete post-secondary education or training; Ensuring all youth out of school are employed; and Ensuring all youth remain safe from violent crime. Community leaders can lay the groundwork for an MBK Community in four steps: 1. Accept the President’s Challenge. 2. Convene a “Local Action Summit” to build an MBK Community. 3. Conduct a policy review and form recommendations for action. 4. Launch a plan of action, next steps, and a timetable for review.
11.10.2016	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today in response to yesterday’s election results: I am deeply honored that my constituents have given me the opportunity to continue representing Ohio's 13th Congressional District in Washington. Like many Americans, I was surprised by last night’s Presidential election results. Secretary Clinton ran a hard-fought race that focused on the substantive issues our nation faces in the years ahead. I am proud to have campaigned by her side from day one. Secretary Clinton devoted her life to public service, putting the interest of others before her own, always striving to improve the lives and livelihoods of the American people. She has been a role model to me and to millions of men and women across our country. I would like to extend my deepest gratitude for everything Secretary Clinton has sacrificed, fought for and achieved over the last 30 years serving the American people. I also congratulate President-elect Trump on his victory and will be listening closely as he begins to discuss his plans for our future. I stand ready to work with him in any way that will benefit the constituents of my district.
10.27.2016	Warren, Ohio — Congressman Tim Ryan today is announcing a continuation of the Head Start Grant in the amount of $2,449,035.00 to be awarded to Trumbull County Action Program in Warren. Head Start promotes school readiness by enhancing the social and cognitive development of low-income children through the delivery of comprehensive health, educational, nutritional, social, and other services.“I am proud to announce that the Head Start program of Trumbull County has been funded for another year and I commend the staff and leadership of the Trumbull Community Action Program for their continuing service to the community,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Head Start has a proven track record of success around the country, and this program is critical in providing early educational experiences to so many of our children.” This grant is part of the Head Start program through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). The funds are budgeted to support the program from November 1, 2016 through October 31, 2017.
10.03.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan is announcing $7,233,069 for Ohio Police Departments to hire 59 new police officers. These funds were made available through the U.S. Department of Justice’s COPS Hiring Program. “I am pleased to announce that these funds will allow our communities to hire additional law enforcement officers and ensure the protection and security of our families and friends," said Congressman Tim Ryan. "At a time when our local municipalities are continuing to be squeezed by budget cuts in Columbus and Washington D.C., it is still important that our towns have the protection they need. We must do all we can to make sure our neighborhoods are safe.” Austintown, Township of: $250,000 (2 Officers Funded) Canton, City of: $1,125,000 (9 Officers Funded) Cincinnati, City of: $1,875,000 (15 Officers Funded) Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority Police: $500,000 (4 Officers Funded) Dayton, City of: $1,875,000 (15 Officers Funded) East Cleveland Police Department: $366,434 (2 Officers Funded) Norton Police Department: $119,267 (1 Officer Funded) Port Clinton, City of: $125,000 (1 Officer Funded) Whitehall: $250,000 (2 Officers Funded) Youngstown Police Department: $747,368 (8 Officers Funded) The COPS Hiring Program is designed to advance public safety through community policing by addressing the full-time sworn officer needs of state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies nationwide. This program provides funds directly to law enforcement agencies to hire new or rehire career law enforcement officers and to increase their community policing capacity and crime prevention efforts.
09.30.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan, a Member of the House Appropriations Committee, helped secure federal funding for a local construction firm to build an indoor firing range at the Youngstown Air Reserve Station (YARS). Mike Coats Construction Company in Niles, Ohio was awarded the $7,879,715 contract. In 2015, Ryan helped secure $9.4 million for YARS in the 2016 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill to help improve the indoor firing range facility at YARS. This contract is the result of that funding. “I am proud to be able use my position on this important committee to secure such a large amount of federal funding that will ultimately flow into our local community. The new indoor firing range in Vienna will ensure our Reservists have the best training facilities necessary to remain combat-ready and complete their missions safely,” said Congressman Ryan. “Each and every day, the men and women stationed at the air base sacrifice for our safety and it is our job to give them the resources they need to succeed.” "We look forward to building this state-of-the-art range at YARS and the capability it will bring to strengthen our relationships with our community law enforcement partners," said Col. James Dignan, 910th Airlift Wing commander. The indoor firing range is used to train and test airmen for qualifications with their service weapons for personal protection and ground base defense. The current range is 30 years old and fails to meet current safety requirements. This funding will correct this serious deficiency and improve the training that occurs at YARS.
09.30.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan’s legislation to create the position of a Great Lakes algal bloom coordinator was agreed to last night as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 (WRDA) which passed last night in the House of Representatives by a vote of 399 – 25. Harmful algal blooms in the Great Lakes have affected over a half million Ohioans in recent years. Lake Erie supports over 117,000 fulltime jobs and provides drinking water to approximately 3 million Ohioans. This bipartisan legislation would encourage the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to designate a coordinator to work with federal, state, tribal, and local governments. “I’m proud that the House of Representatives passed our amendment to finally give us a coordinator within the EPA to defend our fresh water from harmful algal blooms,” said Rep. Ryan. “Our state’s abundance of fresh water is a vital resource and strategic advantage, and it’s our duty as Ohioans to ensure Lake Erie and the Great Lakes are able to continue to thrive. I will continue to use my position on the House Appropriations committee and work with my Ohio colleagues to combat these harmful algal blooms that threaten the health and well-being of our state. ” In July of 2015, Representative Tim Ryan successfully included language in the Department of Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriation bill to evaluate the need for a Great Lakes algal bloom coordinator.
09.30.2016	Warren, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan announces $31,551 for a “Community Food Security Assessment Project” in Warren. This funding will allow Trumbull Neighborhood Partnership (TNP) to undergo an extensive data collection and planning process in order to identify barriers to accessing healthy food and to develop strategies to comprehensively improve access to food for this low-income community. “More than two in three Americans are overweight or obese, and those numbers continue to climb in low-income communities. There is no doubt that our food system is broken. In a country, where 23.5 million people live in food deserts, we cannot allow the status quo to continue and must find new ways for all Americans to have access to fresh, healthy food,” said Congressman Ryan. “I applaud the Trumbull Neighborhood Partnership for the work they are doing to improve access to healthy food in our community.” “This allows us to recreate, on a much smaller scale, the same process we followed over 3 years that lead to the neighborhood plans we developed that focused on blight remediation. There is a lot of work to do, but the formula is fairly simple: we collect data, conduct community outreach, and use the two to develop a plan. Food access is a major issue in Warren and we are excited for the opportunity to move forward on strategizing around solutions,” said TNP’s Executive Director Matt Martin. This model includes creation of a community demographic profile, assessments of existing resources, food distribution resources, availability and affordability of food, local agricultural and food production resources, household food security, and data mapping/analysis. Information will then be presented to the community and input for developing strategies to address issues that emerge will be collected. TNP will then create a strategy plan that summarizes the assessment process and provides a range of short term and long term strategies that can reduce barriers to healthy, fresh food. The strategy plan will include identification of resources for solutions and planning for projects that address food security.
09.23.2016	Warren, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan is announcing a $1,072,500 grant to the Trumbull Metropolitan Housing Authority for its YouthBuild Program, which will help young men and women in Trumbull County equip themselves to be successful in the workforce and engaged in their communities. YouthBuild provides job training and work opportunities for at-risk youth, ages 16-24. “I am proud to announce this award to the Trumbull YMHA and I commend Don Emerson and his staff, especially April Platt, on their hard work in securing this grant,” said Congressman Ryan. “Every young person in our community should have the same chance at success, regardless of where they start in life. This funding will help these young people receive the education and training they need to find good paying jobs." "TMHA is honored, privileged, and humbled to receive this award from the US Department of Labor in order to continue the tremendous work that YouthBuild Trumbull County does every day", said TMHA Executive Director Donald W. Emerson, Jr. "The local support for this program has been overwhelming and certainly played a tremendous role in its success throughout its 20 plus years in existence." “All young people are gifted and talented, and it is everyone’s responsibility to help draw out those gifts and talents,” said U.S. Secretary of Labor Tom Perez. “YouthBuild provides young people with an important opportunity to gain the education and skills they need for good-paying jobs, while also helping them become more engaged members of their communities. That can mean everything to a young person who didn’t get the easiest start in life.” YouthBuild’s mission aligns closely with the goals of President Obama’s My Brother’s Keeper initiative, which seeks to address persistent opportunity gaps facing boys and young men of color, and ensure that all young people can realize their full potential.
09.22.2016	Washington, DC – Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Tom Reed (R-NY) today introduced legislation to establish the position of U.S. Chief Manufacturing Officer in the Executive Office of the President. Ryan and Reed are Co-Chairmen of the bipartisan House Manufacturing Caucus. The U.S. Chief Manufacturing Officer (CMO) will be responsible for coordinating manufacturing-related policies and activities across agencies. The CMO will also develop a national manufacturing strategy to revitalize the manufacturing sector, spur economic growth, and expand United States competitiveness. “Manufacturing is the lifeblood of our economy, and the backbone of the middle class. Our manufacturing sector employs 9% of the United States workforce and makes up 12% of our GDP. Its importance cannot be overstated, manufacturing plays a critical role in almost every part of our economy, stretching from construction to pharmaceuticals; transportation to agriculture. That is why Representative Reed and I introduced this legislation to ensure that we are looking at the big picture, and doing everything in our power to give American manufacturing the tools it needs to grow and thrive,” said Rep. Ryan. “We care about creating quality, family-sustaining jobs in our nation. Its only right that we make every effort to encourage growth in domestic manufacturing and develop policies that will put this industry at the forefront of our economic gains. I’m glad to work with our bipartisan manufacturing caucus co-chair Tim Ryan on this issue,” said Rep. Reed. On average, each manufacturing job creates additional three to four jobs due to the required research, development and process design, and needed supply chain and post sales services. However, manufacturing employment, output and exports are all affected by such issues as tax policies, state of infrastructure and transportation, small business regulations, environmental regulations, trade policies, innovation ecosystems, workforce development, and education initiatives. Unfortunately, some legislative policies and executive actions have resulted in unintended, inconsistent, and conflicting outcomes with respect to the growth of manufacturing in the United States. Therefore, a high level coordination and planning is needed to ensure that all actions and strategies would lead to a clear path for growth of the manufacturing sector. This legislation has been cosponsored by Representatives Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), David Cicilline (D-RI) and Mike Honda (D-CA). “On behalf of the Manufacturing Alliance of Communities, I am thankful for Representative Ryan’s efforts to put manufacturing in the spotlight at the highest level of our government. Manufacturing communities across the nation have long advocated for increased coordination of manufacturing activities among federal agencies and the development of a national manufacturing strategy. Having someone in the White House who is solely focused on making sure that the wide array of federal policies and activities effectively support manufacturing development, employment, output and exports is essential to ensuring the advancement and expansion of American manufacturing.” – Mayor Virg Bernero, Lansing MI, Co-Chair of the Manufacturing Alliance of Communities “As you prepare to introduce the bill creating the position of U.S. Chief Manufacturing Officer in the Executive Office of the President, the National Council for Advanced Manufacturing is pleased to support this important legislation since it will provide the president and the nation with an executive officer responsible for helping strengthen the U.S. economy by shaping national manufacturing-related policy, developing transformational manufacturing strategies, and enhancing the competitiveness of the American manufacturing community worldwide,” said Fred Wentzel, Executive Vice President, the National Council for Advanced Manufacturing (NACFAM). This legislation has been supported by: the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), the Manufacturing Alliance of Communities (MAC), the National Council for Advanced Manufacturing (NACFAM)
09.15.2016	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Tim Ryan (D-13th OH), Peter King (R-2nd NY) and Jan Schakowsky (D-9th IL) introduced the Helping Overcome Trauma for Children Alone in Rear Seats Act (HOT CARS Act of 2016, H.R. 6041), a critical piece of legislation that would prevent children from being needlessly killed and injured when left alone in vehicles. The bi-partisan effort has already received widespread support from more than fifteen of the nation’s leading public health, consumer and safety organizations, as well as an expert in neuroscience and the brain memory system, along with families who have lost their child or were seriously injured due to child vehicular heatstroke. The HOT CARS Act would require the U.S. Department of Transportation to issue a final rule within two years for a reminder system to alert the drive if a child is left unattended in a vehicle. “My heart breaks when I think of the 37 children whose lives are cut short each year because they were trapped in a hot vehicle. The unfortunate reality is that even good, loving parents can get distracted. Studies have shown that this can happen to anyone, anywhere. That is why I am proud to have Representatives King and Schakowsky join me in introducing this important legislation. Our cars can already alert drivers when they leave their keys in the car, their lights on, or their trunk open--none of which are life threatening. Our legislation would move us one step closer to getting this technology in every car on the road to help save lives of children nationwide,” said Rep. Ryan. “Every year, dozens of children die when left in vehicles – one child every nine days,” said Rep. Schakowsky. “These are horrible, preventable tragedies. The technology exists to prevent these deaths. You get a warning if you forget your keys in the ignition. You should get a warning if you forget your child in the back seat. The HOT CARS Act calls on the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to require that new vehicles alert drivers when there’s an unattended passenger. We must act quickly before more children die.” “The belief is that it can’t happen to you, always someone else. Unfortunately it happens over and over again, even to the most conscientious parents. Technology is available and it can be placed in new vehicles to protect innocent children. It’s really that simple. I am proud to work with Reps. Ryan and Schakowsky on this legislation,” said Rep. King. Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety president Jackie Gillan stated, “This year 29 children have already died in hot cars. I want to be very clear that this is not just a ‘seasonal’ problem. When summer ends, the problem will not end. These deaths are happening year round. The HOT CARS Act takes the same approach as the law enacted by Congress in 2008 that requires rear view cameras as standard equipment in all cars by 2018. This is a very reasonable and effective way to stop preventable, unnecessary injuries and deaths.” Miles Harrison, whose 21-month old son Chase died after being unknowingly left in a car, said, “If there had been a simple chime to alert me of my son’s presence, none of this would have happened. How can this be, that in our great country it is not mandatory that the simplest alarm not be required in all cars? Children are dying unnecessarily. Families are being destroyed unnecessarily. This has got to stop. It is so important that we pass this bill being introduced today.” Since 1990, almost 800 children have died in hot cars. Janette Fennell, president and founder of KidsAndCars.org, said, “Children will continue to die in hot cars unless something is done to help our overtaxed brains. Education alone will not solve this problem. These unthinkable tragedies can only be prevented with technology. We certainly wish that we could train our memories to ‘never forget,’ but this is a very human condition we all live with.” Eric Stuyvesant, whose son Michael survived after being left unknowingly in a hot car said, “Time and time again, the auto industry has used technology to ensure the safety of our nation's citizenry. Seat belts have saved lives. Air bags have saved lives.” He added, “I am grateful to see that Congress is ensuring that the automakers take the necessary steps to save the lives of our most precious cargo. It is certainly a great day.” In the majority of cases, it is loving and caring parents who unknowingly leave their child in the car. Common stressors like a change in routine or lack of sleep or even simple distractions can all have an effect on even the most responsible parents. Dr. David Diamond, a professor in the Departments of Psychology, Molecular Pharmacology and Physiology at the University of South Florida, said, “The one aspect which is not a factor is that these children were not forgotten by parents who were reckless with regard to care for their children. This modern day phenomenon must be explained from a brain science perspective, not one that blames parents for being negligent.” He continued, “We must have a system that provides a reminder to parents of the presence of a child in the backseat for that rare occasion when a child’s life is in danger because parents, through no fault of their own, lose awareness of the presence of their child in the car.” Lindsey Rogers-Seitz, mother of Benjamin who died in a hot car in 2014, added, “If there had been notification systems in vehicles, then hundreds of mothers just like me would still have the blessing of holding their children in their arms today.” She continued, “An alert, if implemented a decade ago when this discussion began, could have saved my son’s life.” An audio recording of the press conference and additional materials can be found here.
09.15.2016	Niles, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) announces that the Marlboro Township Volunteer Fire Department was awarded $48,228 and the Eagle Joint Fire District in Hubbard was awarded $13,710. These grants were awarded by the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). “This is great news for the firefighters working to protect our local communities in Alliance and Hubbard,” said Congressman Ryan. “It is important that we make safety of the utmost importance when it comes to the firefighters who put their life on the line every day. These types of federal grants are important to ensure that local fire departments have adequate funding for the resources they need to keep our community safe. I will continue to advocate to bring these funds back to Northeast Ohio.” The goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and emergency medical service organizations. Operations and Safety grants can be used for hiring, professional training, wellness and fitness programs equipment, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critical equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards.
09.15.2016	Washington, DC – The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) today answered Congressman Ryan’s (D-OH) call to modernize the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) by allowing participants to purchase their groceries online. The USDA announced today that they are seeking retailer volunteers for a two year, nationwide pilot program to test the program. “For the past three decades, childhood obesity rates in America have tripled, and today, nearly one in three children in America are overweight or obese. If we continue on our current trajectory, we will have an adult obesity rate of 60 percent within 15 years. In a country, where 23.5 million people live in food deserts, we cannot allow the status quo to continue. We must find new ways for all Americans to have access to fresh, healthy food,” said Congressman Ryan. “I applaud the USDA for doing the right thing and beginning this pilot program. It is time for the government, and our society to catch up to the 21st century and begin to utilize the tools that can increase access to healthy foods for those communities that need them the most.” “Online purchasing shows great promise to improve access to healthy food for SNAP participants living in neighborhoods and rural or tribal areas without grocery stores,” said Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack. “Online purchasing will also help those who are unable to access a grocery store due to a disability or lack of transportation.” This Monday, September 12, 2015, Ryan was joined by Senator Cory Booker (D-NJ) and Representative Barbara Lee (D-CA) to urge U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack to expedite United States Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) acceptance of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) for online transactions, which would expand access to healthier foods for low-income individuals and families. On July 12, 2016, Ryan hosted actress and activist Shailene Woodley and thought leaders to advocate for increased access to healthy food for low-income families with the use of technology and the importance of SNAP. They discussed how the use of the internet will strengthen SNAP by increasing access to healthier foods for all Americans. The 2014 Farm Bill mandated a pilot be conducted to test the possibility of allowing retail food stores to accept SNAP benefits through online transactions. Up to five retailers in three states will be selected for this pilot and, once selected, the pilot is slated to begin next summer after the EBT processor completes system development work to allow for online transactions. Since the passage of the Farm Bill, USDA has been working to lay the groundwork to put together the complex technical infrastructure required for this pilot. Online payment presents technical and security issues that will be tested in this controlled, limited way prior to nationwide expansion. USDA is committed to maintaining the security of SNAP benefits for both the protection of SNAP participant accounts and to prevent and detect trafficking, so SNAP online purchases must have a higher level of security than most other online purchases. For households to make online purchases, the pilot requires retailer volunteers to provide service that is secure, private, and easy to use. As with all SNAP purchases, customers participating in the online pilot will only be able to use their SNAP benefits for eligible food purchases – not to cover any related charges, such as delivery or service fees. Retailers interested in participating should consult the online purchasing pilot Request for Volunteers Application Package available for download from the FNS public website. USDA has taken many steps in the last several years to strengthen SNAP and increase access to healthy foods. Recently FNS announced a purchase and delivery pilot, which is designed for non-profits and government entities to improve access to groceries solely for homebound elderly and disabled SNAP participants. USDA also provided funding to incentivize participants in SNAP to purchase more healthy fruits and vegetables through the Food Insecurity Nutrition Incentive Program, increased farmers market participation in SNAP to improve access to fresh and nutritious food, and proposed updated SNAP retailer standards to include different varieties of healthy qualifying foods. As the nation's first line of defense against hunger, SNAP helps put food on the table for millions of low income families and individuals every month and is critical in the fight against hunger. SNAP is a vital supplement to the monthly food budgets of 44 million low-income individuals. SNAP plays an important role in reducing both poverty and food insecurity in the United States—especially among children. SNAP is an effective and efficient health intervention for low-income families with a positive impact on children beginning before birth and lasting beyond childhood years, improving health, education, and economic outcomes.
09.13.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today responds to the United States Supreme Court’s refusal to reinstate Ohio’s “Golden Week,” during which individuals could register to vote and cast their ballots at the same time. “I am extremely disappointed by the Supreme Court’s decision to allow Ohio Republicans to continue to restrict voting rights in our state. We know Early Voting and the Golden Week increases voter turnout and gives more citizens a chance to have their voices heard. Over the last two presidential elections alone, tens of thousands of Ohioans have counted on the Golden Week to register to vote and cast their ballots. Voting in elections is one of our country's most sacred freedoms and we should do everything in our power to make it easier, not more difficult,” said Congressman Ryan.
09.13.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today applauds the International Trade Commission’s (ITC) positive ruling for Ohio Steel Companies. The ITC determined that the U.S. steel industry has been unfairly injured by hot-rolled steel imports from Australia, Brazil, Japan, Korea, the Netherlands, Turkey and the United Kingdom. This ruling will result in new antidumping (AD) and countervailing (CVD) duty orders against these countries’ steel imports. “Unfortunately we have seen firsthand the result of unfair trade practices. Plants shutdown, family and friends lose their livelihood – there is a rippling effect that touches every part of the community. I will continue using my position in Congress to fight to unstack the deck, because no one can out-compete the United States of America,” said Congressman Ryan. Companies with Ohio facilities affected by this case: U.S. Steel: Lipsec, Lorain, Nucor: Cincinnati, Marion, Orrville, ArcelorMittal: Cleveland, Columbus, Marion, Pioneer, Richfield, Shelby, Warren AK Steel: Coshocton, Mansfield, Middletown, Walbridge, Zanesville
09.13.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today urged the State of Ohio and community colleges to assist students impacted by the ITT Technical Institutes (ITT) closure. On September 6th, ITT shut down all of its campuses, impacting 45,000 students nationwide, including 2,000 enrolled in the State of Ohio. “Overnight many students’ planned path to graduation and future employment ended, and they were left with very little information and guidance. There is no doubt that we owe it to these men and women to make sure they are given every opportunity to graduate and succeed,” said Congressman Ryan. “Nothing is as important as a quality education, and I hope Ohio colleges and the Ohio State Board of Career Colleges and Schools will join with me in doing everything we can to help create a seamless transition for these students. We must all work together to make sure that no student falls through the gap.” Ryan sent a letter to John Ware, Executive Director of the Ohio State Board of Career Colleges and Schools and a letter to the presidents of Stark State College, Eastern Gateway Community College and Cuyahoga Community College. Full letter to Ohio State Board of Career Colleges and Schools can be viewed here. Full letter to northeast Ohio community colleges can be viewed here. Ryan is a cosponsor of the Veterans Education Recovery and Restoration Act, which ensures continuation of GI benefits, including the housing stipend, in the event of a school closure. Under current law, the Department of Veterans Affairs does not have the legal authority to restore any GI Bill benefits that have been used to attend ITT. Ryan is a cosponsor of the Pell Grant Restoration Act, which ensures students do not lose semesters of Pell Grant eligibility due to a school closure.
09.12.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Representative Tim Ryan (D-OH), Senator Cory Booker (D-NJ) and Representative Barbara Lee (D-CA) today urged U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack to expedite United States Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) acceptance of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) for online transactions, which would expand access to healthier foods for low-income individuals and families. “It is imperative for the economic future and the health of all Americans to ensure that each person has access to nutritious and affordable food, especially the 46 million people who rely on SNAP to ensure that they and their families have enough food to eat. As you know, individuals and their families who rely on SNAP are more likely to reside in food deserts, have lower nutrition education, and live in poverty. That is why it is vital that our nation commits to reducing hunger and bolstering nutrition through improvements in SNAP, such as online transactions,” Sen. Booker and Reps. Ryan and Lee wrote in the letter. “We know that technological advancements over the last 10 years, like the proliferation of smartphones, have dramatically increased access to the internet throughout our country. Unfortunately, many of our governmental policies and programs have not kept pace with the dramatic improvement in healthy food access that technology offers. “We deeply appreciate all of your efforts to increase access to healthy foods for all Americans, including your commitment to launch a demonstration project to allow use of SNAP online. However, given the urgent need to catch up with the rapid pace at which the private sector is utilizing technology to expand access to healthy foods, we urge you to consider moving up the timing for beginning the project, allowing all eligible retailers to participate, and facilitating their participation by shortening the projects timeframe,” they concluded. The full letter can be viewed here.
09.07.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan announces $250,000 to support Drug Free Community initiatives in our area. The Coalition for a Drug-Free Mahoning County has been awarded $125,000. And the Community Awareness and Prevention Association Coalition Community: Brecksville and Broadview Heights has been awarded $125,000. “It is an unfortunate reality, but here in our state fatal drug overdoses have been the leading cause of accidental death since 2007. Heroin and substance abuse is destroying lives, disrupting families and destabilizing communities. It is through organizations like the Coalition for a Drug-Free Mahoning County and the Community Awareness and Prevention Association Coalition Community in Brecksville and Broadview Heights that we are finally beginning to stem this tide. I will continue to do everything in my power to make sure organizations like these have the resources and support they need to continue fighting to combat this horrible epidemic,” said Congressman Ryan. As you may imagine, Drug Free Communities funding is game-changing here in Mahoning County and we are excited to be able to continue our work, bringing effective prevention to Boardman Township. The environmental change we create now within the community will have long-ranging impact on both the current drug crisis and future efforts to nurture drug-free children into adulthood,” said Angela McClellan, MSOL, OCPS II – Executive Director of Coalition for a Drug-Free Mahoning County. With the premise that local problems need local solutions, the Drug-Free Communities Program is designed to support communities as they mobilize individuals and organizations to reduce youth substance use. Over time, Drug-Free Communities funded coalitions have shown significant declines in prevalence of past 30-day youth substances use. In light of data from the National Survey on Drug Use and Health indicating that levels of substance use among youth remain elevated, continued support for the Drug-Free Communities Program is critical. This finding was provided through Fiscal Year 2016 Drug-Free Communities Support Program – which is administered by the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) with support from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA).
09.06.2016	Warren, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) is announcing a $2,389,845.00 award to the City of Warren Fire Department from the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). “This is great news for the firefighters working to protect the Warren community,” said Congressman Ryan. “The safety of our firefighters and first responders cannot be underestimated when every day they put their lives on the line for us. Federal grants are an important source of funding that ensure that local fire departments can provide the resources and hiring needed to keep their communities safe.” "The city is extremely grateful for the opportunity to bring the fire department up to adequate staffing levels," said Mayor Doug Franklin. "This grant is very significant to the city's ability to protect life and property in the community. I greatly appreciate the support from Congressman Tim Ryan and our elected federal officials." The goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and emergency medical service organizations. Operations and Safety grants can be used for hiring, professional training, wellness and fitness programs equipment, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critical equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards.
09.06.2016	Warren, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) is announcing a $367,286 award to the Coventry Township Fire Department, as well as an additional $86,096 award to the Braceville Township Fire Department from the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). “This is great news for the firefighters working to protect our communities in Coventry and Braceville Townships,” said Congressman Ryan. “It is up to us to make sure safety is of the utmost importance when it comes to the firefighters who put their lives on the line every day to protect our citizens and their property. These types of federal grants are important to ensure that local fire departments have adequate funding for the resources and hiring they need to keep our community safe. I will continue to advocate bringing these funds to our first responders across Northeast Ohio.” The goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and emergency medical service organizations. Operations and Safety grants can be used for hiring, professional training, wellness and fitness programs equipment, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critical equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards.
08.24.2016	WASHINGTON, DC –Representative Tim Ryan (D-OH) and 16 Members of the Ohio Delegation are urging Vice Admiral James D. Syring, Director of the Missile Defense Agency (MDA), to select Camp Ravenna Joint Military Training Center as the preferred site for the East Coast Missile Defense System. Ryan represents Ohio’s 13th Congressional District which includes Camp Ravenna. Signers of the letter included Senator Rob Portman (R-OH), Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH), and Representatives Steve Stivers (R-OH), Dave Joyce (R-OH), Pat Tiberi (R-OH), Bill Johnson (R-OH), Brad Wenstrup (R-OH), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Warren Davidson (R-OH), Jim Renacci (R-OH), Marcia Fudge (D-OH), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Jim Jordan (R-OH), Bob Gibbs (R-OH), Bob Latta (R-OH), and Steve Chabot (R-OH). “Ohioans stand ready to support the defense of our nation and look forward to this potential opportunity to strengthen the regional economy,” the letter stated. Missile Defense Systems are used to intercept ballistic missiles headed for American soil. In 2013, Congress voted as part of the National Defense Authorization Act to require the MDA to conduct environmental impact studies to search for potential sites for an East Coast Missile Defense System. With growing threats to our national security, especially from Iran and North Korea, an East Coast Missile Defense System would be an important addition for our national defense. Camp Ravenna is located in Northeast Ohio, in close vicinity to the Akron and Youngstown transportation networks, making it easier to facilitate the flow of military and construction traffic this project would bring. Currently, there are two Missile Defense System locations in California and Alaska. Fort Drum in New York and the Fort Custer Training Center in Michigan are the other locations being considered on the East Coast. “It is estimated that the $3.6 billion project could help support 2,300 jobs in the region during construction and directly employ up to 850 people full-time once the system is operational,” the letter stated. “This represents a significant investment in a region of our state that is continuing to recover economically.” To read the full text of the letter click here.
08.18.2016	Niles, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) announces $1,007,352 awarded to the City of Niles Fire Department from the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). “This is great news for the firefighters working to protect our local community here in Niles,” said Congressman Ryan. “It is important that we make safety of the utmost importance when it comes to the firefighters who put their life on the line every day. These types of federal grants are important to ensure that local fire departments have adequate funding for the resources they need to keep our community safe. I will continue to advocate to bring these funds to Niles and across Northeast Ohio.” “This grant provides funding for additional man power only, and I am pleased that it is at no cost to the city. I want to give a special thanks to Congressman Tim Ryan for assisting with this grant,” said Niles Mayor Thomas Scarnecchia. “This SAFER grant is sorely needed for the Niles Fire Department with the city being in fiscal emergency. This will enable the department to get to the authorized staffing level for the first time since 2007. I would like to thank Lt. John Stevens for writing for this and Rep. Ryan for the assistance he provided in obtaining this grant,” said Chief David Danielson, Niles Fire Department. The goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and emergency medical service organizations. Operations and Safety grants can be used for hiring, professional training, wellness and fitness programs equipment, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critical equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards.
08.12.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement applauding United States District Judge Michael Barrett’s ruling to block an Ohio law that diverts $1.4 million in funding, most of it federal, away from Planned Parenthood: “Here in Ohio, 57,000 individuals count on Planned Parenthood each and every day, the vast majority of them women. I applaud the court’s rejection of this politically-motivated attempt to strip thousands of Ohioans of their ability to receive quality health care. “This funding would not go to abortions. Current state and federal law already bars tax dollars from going to those services. Instead, these lawmakers were attempting to block money that supports HIV testing, cancer screenings, and other health education and prevention services. Ohio women were spared of this harmful assault on their health care, but we cannot continue to rely on the courts to rectify the devastating and damaging laws coming out of our state legislature. We need to band together and make our voices heard. Ohio Republicans can no longer be allowed to abuse their role as elected officials to attack the rights of our fellow citizens.”
08.10.2016	Akron, Ohio – Representatives Tim Ryan (OH-13) and Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) announce $4,469,275 awarded to the City of Akron Fire Department from the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). Ryan and Fudge both represent the City of Akron. “This is great news for the firefighters working to protect our local community here in Akron,” said Congressman Ryan. “It is important that we make safety of the utmost importance when it comes to the firefighters who put their life on the line every day. These types of federal grants are important to ensure that local fire departments have adequate funding for the resources they need to keep our community safe. I will continue to advocate to bring these funds to Akron and across Northeast Ohio.” “I thank the Department of Homeland Security for investing in the City of Akron’s Fire Department,” said Congresswoman Fudge. “Our community depends on our firefighters; they are one of our first lines of defense in the face of fire and medical emergencies. That’s why these funds are so important. The funds will help ensure there continues to be trained front line firefighters in the City of Akron, leading to a safer community for all.” “On behalf of our citizens of Akron and our more than 325 professionals within the Fire Division, I am excited and grateful to receive this grant to help us move forward in improving and expanding our team; while also providing cutting-edge training and development,” said Mayor Dan Horrigan. “Receipt of the SAFER Grant is right in line with our goals as we continue to meet the recommendations made by the Blue Ribbon Task Force – to improve the hiring, recruitment and retention of firefighters within the City of Akron.” “The grant will allows us to hire 25 new firefighters and get us back to staffing that is more appropriate for a city of our size. I am thrilled to receive this news.” said Akron Chief Ed Hiltbrand. The goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and emergency medical service organizations. Operations and Safety grants can be used for hiring, professional training, wellness and fitness programs equipment, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critical equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. ###
08.03.2016	Ravenna, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan announces today that the Austintown, Coventry Township and Ravenna Township Fire Departments were awarded over $700,000 in grants from the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). The Austintown Fire Department will receive $342,852 and the Coventry Township Fire Department will receive $348,150 in funding to support their hiring programs. The Ravenna Fire Department will receive $24,964 in funding to support operations and safety. “This is great news for the firefighters working to protect our local community,” said Congressman Ryan. “It is important that we make safety of the utmost importance when it comes to the firefighters who put their life on the line every day. These types of federal grants are important to ensure that local fire departments have adequate funding for the resources they need to keep our community safe. I will continue to advocate to bring these funds to Northeast Ohio.” The goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and emergency medical service organizations. Operations and Safety grants can be used for hiring, professional training, wellness and fitness programs equipment, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critical equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards.
07.31.2016	Akron, OH - Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement after learning of the death of his friend and Summit County Executive Russ Pry: Russ first and foremost was a dear friend, a thoughtful, compassionate human being who always put the good of the people ahead of politics. I have never seen a better leader than Russ Pry, who made local government work efficiently and effectively for the people he represented. He had no ego and always brought people together to make lives better for ordinary people. There is a huge hole in Summit County today and a huge hole in my heart as well--one that can never be filled. But we can all learn from how Russ conducted himself; always with humility, always responsibly and, for those of us in public life, always making sure government was creating opportunity for those who were looking to get ahead in life. Andrea and I extend our deepest sympathies to Russ' family and his amazing group of friends and coworkers who know better than anyone the amazing gifts that Russ brought to the people of Summit County. He was a friend, a leader, a generous and brilliant public servant lost too soon.
07.27.2016	AKRON, OH - Congressman Tim Ryan today is announcing a $5 million TIGER grant award for the City of Akron, a public-private partnership that will enable the city to complete a significant section of the Downtown Akron Promenade. This grant will make possible new enhancements to the major connections within Akron’s downtown area, and provide support for both local and global businesses located in the Akron downtown. “I am very excited for the City of Akron and congratulate Mayor Horrigan and his administration on receiving this TIGER grant,” said Congressman Ryan. “This grant is a proven public-private partnership, and I was happy to speak to Department of Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx in support of this project. Today’s announcement will spur the collaboration of our public and private sectors as they join together to transform the city and improve the quality of life. This is a great step forward for the City of Akron and I am proud to have played a role in securing these funds for the city.” “I am immensely thankful for the support of our County Executive Russ Pry, our congressional delegation, and local business leaders who helped champion this effort. It is truly an honor to be one of the few TIGER grant recipients in the State of Ohio over the past eight years. This grant is transformational for downtown Akron and for our growth strategies,” said Mayor Dan Horrigan. The City of Akron has numerous transportation improvements on the horizon including the Cedar-Exchange Complete Street project and the Oak Park Project which will reconfigure Dart and Rand. South Main Street is a critical artery in the Downtown Akron Innovation District, as well as the Akron BioMedical Corridor, a 506-acre area designated to promote business incubation and development that connects The University of Akron, Akron Children’s Hospital, Akron General Medical Center, Summa Health Systems and the Austen BioInnovation Institute. Akron is quickly becoming a global hub of innovation, attracting international biomedical technologies and companies that are looking for help in commercializing their produces and expanding into a global market and the Downtown Akron Promenade is a direct link into the Downtown Innovation District. Congressman Ryan, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, has long supported full funding for TIGER grants as we work to put more Americans back to work and modernize our infrastructure for the 21st Century. The TIGER grant allows for federal investments in transit projects that can help revitalize communities. Over the past three years, Ohio has received $16.5 million for these projects, including federal funding for the Kent Central Gateway.
07.22.2016	CLEVELAND, OH – Representatives Tim Ryan (OH-13), Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), Marcia Fudge (OH-11) and Joyce Beatty (OH-3) today to invite the NBA to host the 2017 All-Star Game in Cleveland, Ohio. The NBA announced yesterday that they would no longer allow Charlotte to host the 2017 All-Star Game over North Carolina’s House Bill 2, which bars of transgender people from using bathrooms that correspond to their gender identities. Cleveland's City Council has recently unanimously passed legislation empowering transgender people to choose whichever bathroom aligns with their gender identity. July 22, 2016 Adam Silver Commissioner National Basketball Association Olympic Tower 645 Fifth Avenue New York, NY 10022 Dear Mr. Silver, We applaud the NBA's recent decision to respect and honor the LGBTQ community and pull the 2017 All-Star Game out of Charlotte, North Carolina. Your decision, especially given your organization's massively influential role among the American people, continues to set a national precedent of acceptance that we should all strive to uphold. In refusing to endorse North Carolina’s House Bill 2, and its barring of transgender people from using bathrooms that corresponds to their gender identities, you are firmly promoting basic American principles like tolerance and inclusion. In Ohio, we understand that every individual deserves equal rights and protections under the law. That is why we would like to invite you to host the 2017 All-Star Game in Cleveland, Ohio. We pride ourselves on our culture of equality and respect. Just a few years ago, Cleveland and Akron proudly hosted the ninth Gay Games. This celebration of love and sports flourished in Ohio, as that year was the most economically successful event in the Games' three-decade long history. Our lawmakers continue to enact legislation that mirrors the cultural and social acceptance exhibited at those games. Recently, Cleveland's City Council unanimously passed legislation empowering transgender people to choose whichever bathroom aligns with their gender identity. Cleveland’s City Council stood up to promote love and recognition by holding our people accountable to high standards of fairness. As home of the 2016 World Champion Cleveland Cavaliers, we understand the importance of basketball and economic opportunity and joy it can bring to a city. Cleveland would be proud to host the 2017 All-Star game and create an atmosphere where everyone can feel welcome. Thank you for your attention to this issue. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress Marcy Kaptur Member of Congress Marcia Fudge Member of Congress Joyce Beatty Member of Congress
07.13.2016	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) offered an amendment today to the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill to require the Bureau of Labor Statistics to submit a report on the impact of free trade agreements to the American workforce. The Ryan Amendment passed the full House Appropriations Committee by a voice vote. "We respect hard work in America, and it is our responsibility as leaders to push policies that increase opportunities for United States’ citizens to earn a good living. Unfortunately I have seen trade deal after trade deal fail to live up to those standards. All that you need to do is look at the shuttered factories and shattered communities across Ohio to see the devastating affect free trade agreements have had across our country. I am proud that my amendment passed and we will soon be able to know the true cost of these deals to our nation,” said Congressman Ryan. The Ryan Amendment requires the report to include an impact analysis on how free trade agreements have impacted the wages and demand for college educated and non-college educated workers; as well as the wages and demand for manufacturing sector versus non-manufacturing sector workers.
07.12.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) today was joined by Actress and Activist Shailene Woodley and thought leaders to advocate for increased access to healthy food for low-income families with the use of technology and the importance of SNAP. They discussed how the use of the internet will strengthen SNAP by increasing access to healthier foods for all Americans. The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) is the largest program to help combat hunger and provides nutrition assistance to millions of eligible, low-income individuals and families. Currently, over 45 million Americans receive SNAP benefits each month, including about 20 million children. This program has proved to help lift millions of Americans out of poverty and also help provide access to healthier foods. “For the past three decades, childhood obesity rates in America have tripled, and today, nearly one in three children in America are overweight or obese. Further, if we continue on our current trajectory, we will have an adult obesity rate of 60 percent within 15 years. In a country, where 23.5 million people live in food deserts, we cannot allow the status quo to continue and must find new ways for all Americans to have access to fresh, healthy food. It is time for the government, and our society to catch up to the 21st century and begin to utilize the tools that can increase access to healthy foods for those communities that need them the most,” said Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH). “A key step we can take to fight hunger, and combat food deserts is to make healthy, affordable good choices available to the greatest number of consumers. I believe the federal government must advance to the level of today's technology and allow for the easier use of EBT benefits through online portals, and I commend Rep. Tim Ryan for convening this important briefing on this critical issue,” said Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr. “If healthy food is either economically unaffordable or physically unavailable, that increases hunger and harms community nutrition," said Joel Berg, CEO of Hunger Free America, a nationwide advocacy group. “That's why the federal government must enter the modern age by enabling more low-income families who rely on SNAP and live in food deserts to be able to use their benefits to order healthy food online.”
07.12.2016	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) offered an amendment today to State and Foreign Operations Appropriations that would remove harmful funding cuts for the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). The Ryan Amendment would strike the current funding cap of $461 million on bilateral family planning, and instead insert a funding floor of $585 million (matching the President’s request) for UNFPA’s programs that provide contraceptive services in the 46 countries that administer these necessary programs and in Zika- affected countries. This will help reduce maternal mortality, promote women’s human rights, and contribute to the stability of communities across the globe. The Ryan Amendment failed by a vote of 20 – 29. UNFPA is the world’s largest provider of contraceptives, accounting for 42 percent of all contraception procured by donors on behalf of developing countries. “We are currently facing a global health epidemic in the Zika virus, and if we don’t begin to take it seriously, it will not only be South and Central America who are forced to deal with this horrible tragedy,” said Congressman Ryan. “The World Health Organization has already issued suggestions for people living in Zika areas to delay pregnancy due to the risk of severe birth defects among women who contract the virus while pregnant. This is why I offered my amendment to do the right thing and increase funding for this important program that gives family planning resources to these people who need them the most. But I am deeply disappointed that House Republicans rejected this amendment and have decided to turn their back on thousands of men and women struggling though this crisis.” “All women should have access to essential reproductive healthcare, including family planning, yet for so many women around the world this need goes unfulfilled. Our elected leaders must put women and families at the center of our global health response - yet the House appropriations bill dramatically cuts programs that would do just that. In the face of these cuts, we applaud Representative Tim Ryan for his amendment to restore funding for international family planning programs. We need leaders like Rep. Ryan to continue the fight for health equity and equal access to lifesaving resources like family planning, especially as the Zika virus makes this need impossible to ignore," said Cecile Richards, President, Planned Parenthood Federation of America “Family planning is one of the most effective interventions in the history of public health. It is clear that U.S. foreign assistance for family planning and reproductive health programs is a critical and worthwhile investment in efforts to drive down both maternal and child mortality,” said Suzanne Ehlers, President and CEO PAI. “We applaud Rep. Ryan for fighting for increased funding for these vital programs which are linked to transformational benefits in health and development.” The UNFPA is currently facing a $140 million shortfall in its budget this year, due to cuts from many of their largest donor countries – and a $45 million funding shortfall for UNFPA contraceptive supplies in 2016. This looming budget shortfall is especially troubling in the face of the continuing threat from Zika. The $2.5 million increase provided for contraceptive commodities would be used specifically for activities in Zika affected countries. The amendment would not fund abortions.
07.08.2016	Congressman Tim Ryan today voted in favor of the Conference Report on the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) of 2016, a bill creating a comprehensive opioid abuse reduction program that will provide targeted focus on how to tackle the massive problem of substance abuse – through prevention, treatment, recovery support, criminal justice reform, law enforcement, and overdose reversal. Congressman Ryan was the lead Democratic sponsor of CARA in the House of Representatives. This bill has passed the House and is waiting on final passage in the Senate. “This week, Summit County experienced 19 overdoses within 24 hours. This number is shocking and not unique to Ohio; this is an epidemic that has touched every corner of our country – no matter your race, gender, religion, socio-economic status or political party. As a country we can no longer turn a blind eye to those men and women who are suffering from the disease of addiction. These individuals are mothers and fathers who will not see their children grow up, college students who won’t see adulthood, teachers, firefighters, friends, and neighbors. Our communities need help, and with the passage of this bill we can increase access to treatment, expand the availability of naloxone, provide education and community-based prevention programs, and strengthen recovery services to our local communities,” said Congressman Ryan. “While I am disappointed that this bill didn’t provide additional funding, I believe it is a step in the right direction. Through my position on the Appropriations Committee, I will continue to push Congressional leadership to increase funding for this epidemic so we can provide law enforcement officers, public health officials, community leaders, and educators the resources and services they need to respond efficiently and effectively." The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016 expands prevention and educational efforts to prevent the abuse of opioids, increases the availability of naloxone to law enforcement agencies and other responders, and strengthen prescription drug monitoring programs to help states monitor and track prescription drug diversion and to help at-risk individuals access services. Furthermore, it creates a grant program to states to carry out a comprehensive opioid abuse response, reauthorizes a grant program for residential treatment for pregnant and postpartum women who have an opioid-use disorder and for their children, and expands prescription drug take-back programs. Congressman Ryan is a Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus and a member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic.
07.08.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to the deadly shooting in Dallas that left 5 police officers dead and others wounded: Last night’s brutal and senseless acts of violence sicken me. These police officers were simply doing their jobs, keeping their community safe during a peaceful protest. These law enforcement officers were ambushed because of the uniforms they wear. While we are still uncovering new details from last night, and there is a lot to be learned, what we do know is that this act was motivated by hatred. We are living in difficult times in the United States, there is no denying this. In the midst of this unimaginable tragedy, I hope that as Americans we look past the sensationalism that may arise and see the humanity within each of us. Now, more than ever, we need to strive for love, compassion, and understanding. Everyone wants their family, friends, and neighbors to come home at the end of the day – no matter their race, religion, or occupation. Words are not adequate to describe what the families and loved ones of those killed or injured are forced to go through today and every day. And as we continue to follow the news coming out of Dallas, I want to let all my brothers and sisters in law enforcement know that I am praying for you and your families. I am deeply grateful for your service to our communities across the country.
07.08.2016	Washington, DC – Congressmen Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Tom Reed (R-NY) introduce the Pre-College Engineering Education Act, which makes it easier for school districts to incorporate engineering education in their science standards. Ryan and Reed are co-chairs of the House Manufacturing Caucus. Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education is critical in developing student interest and aptitude in subjects directly relevant to the Nation’s capacity for research and innovation. This capacity is largely credited with supporting United States economic health, national security, and quality of life. While a primary focus in most STEM-related education has been on sciences and math, the “E” in STEM has received a relatively minor emphasis in formal pre-college education. This bipartisan legislation establishes a grant program at the National Science Foundation (NSF) to encourage States and local school districts to develop and implement sustainable engineering education programs in elementary and secondary schools through public-private partnerships. “One of the best ways to promote economic growth is by giving our students the tools they need to become entrepreneurs and makers, and training them to use the technology of the future,” said Congressman Ryan. “It is critical that we focus on making investments in our schools and prepare our young people to be the innovators that will enhance the American economy.” “We care about providing our kids with the best opportunity to succeed. We can help create those opportunities by giving them the educational resources they need to thrive in engineering, science and other advanced manufacturing fields. Having that kind of support at an early age is a simple, but critical, investment that we can and should make. It’s just the right thing to do,” said Congressman Reed. This legislation is supported by The Ohio State University, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), National Society of Professional Engineers, and the American Society for Engineering Education. "We are pleased to endorse the Pre-College Engineering Education Act. This targeted, bi-partisan legislation will allow collaborative teams of faculty to harness the power of private industry and best practices and to enhance curricula that develop the essential skills and knowledge our next generation of American engineers need to compete in the global economy," said Dr. David Williams, Executive Dean of the Professional Colleges and Dean of the College of Engineering and Dr. Cheryl Achterberg, Dean of the College of Education and Human Ecology at Ohio State University. “According to the National Academy of Engineering, the introduction of engineering education to the K-12 classroom has the potential to promote critical thinking, provide new levels of relevancy to motivate students to learn study science content, make engineering and engineering careers more accessible to all students, and prepare the next generation to solve global problems facing humanity,” said Thomas Loughlin, Executive Director of ASME. “The licensed professional engineer has the foremost responsibility of protecting the public health, safety and welfare above all other interests. This is an intrinsic value that we all benefit from and that should be taught to students at all levels of education. The Pre-College Engineering Act takes an important step in underscoring the value and necessity of engineering education by enhancing K–12 engineering education and providing for expanded research to inform best practices. The bill’s goals of teaching students the overall analytical approach used in engineering, increasing participation of underrepresented student groups in the engineering pipeline, and providing professional development for teachers to teach engineering are critical to cultivating the next generation of engineers,” said Tim Austin, President of the National Society of Professional Engineers. "The American Society for Engineering Education is strongly supportive of the aim of this bill to increase attention to and support of pre-college engineering education. We believe that elements of this bill contribute toward our desire to 'Commit to P-12: Where engineering begins,” said Norman Fortenberry, Executive Director of the American Society for Engineering Education.
07.06.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan announces today that Youngstown and Austintown Fire Departments have been awarded Fire Prevention and Safety grants through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Department of Homeland Security. Youngstown Fire Department received $372,013 and Austintown Fire Department received $71,593. “There are few things more important than supporting services that help protect the lives of our families and friends, and as a result I always offer my support to grants of this nature," said Congressman Ryan. “This money will enhance fire prevention and over all safety to both departments. I congratulate Fire Chief’s John O’Neill and Andrew Frost for their hard work in obtaining these grants.” “The Youngstown Fire Department is extremely grateful for the much needed FEMA DHS Grant awarded to our Department. The money will be used for the purchase of new SCBAs which are one of the most vital pieces of equipment a fire department uses for the safety of our personnel. Our current units are aging and in need of frequent repair so this grant will ease a financial burden facing us with needing to upgrade,” said Battalion Chief Gary DiTullio, Youngstown Fire Department. “Being awarded the AFG Grant will allow our Fire Department to purchase some much needed safety equipment. These funds will be used to replace structural firefighting turn-out gear that has reached its mandated maximum 10 year life span. Our Department relies heavily on alternative funding sources such as this Grant. For more than a decade, this Grant has dramatically increased the safety of our Firefighters. I would like to thank the Department of Homeland Security, FEMA and our Legislators for this award,” said Fire Chief Andrew Frost, Austintown Fire Department. The goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and emergency medical service organizations. Operations and Safety grants can be used for professional training, wellness and fitness programs equipment, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critical equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. For more information, please visit the program’s website.
07.06.2016	Akron, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan statement regarding recent reports that Summit Country had 19 heroin overdoses in 24 hours. “Heroin and prescription drug abuse is destroying lives, disrupting families and destabilizing our communities in Summit and across the nation. Today’s report of 19 heroin overdoses in Summit Country in 24 hours is tragic and disturbing. Here in Akron we have lost 55 people in 2016, and we are only half way through the year. Recently, fatal drug overdoses became the leading cause of accidental death in Ohio. These are sons and daughter, brother and sisters, friends and neighbors – the time to act is now. We cannot afford to wait. “As Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus, I understand the tremendous damage substance abuse inflicts on our country, and that is why I have worked closely with my colleagues in Washington to pass comprehensive heroin and prescription drug prevention legislation. This bill is still being finalized and it is my hope that Democrats and Republicans can put their partisan differences aside and pass this initiative that can finally help to stem this terrible tide.”
07.06.2016	Washington, DC – Representative Tim Ryan (OH-13) today joined Representative Rosa DeLauro (CT-3) as a co-sponsor of the Stop Subsidizing Childhood Obesity Act (HR 5232), a bill that will remove the tax deductibility of expenses for marketing foods of poor nutritional quality to children. This legislation will help stem the tide of our nation’s obesity epidemic for children in the United States—rates which are far too high. This epidemic is evidence that marketing to children does affect their choices, and ultimately their health and diets. Recent studies have also shown that eliminating this deduction would save millions in health care dollars and reduce the incidence of childhood obesity by up to one million children. “If we continue on our current trajectory, we will have an adult obesity rate of 60 percent within 15 years, and health care spending in this country, including Medicare and Medicaid, will be beyond our ability to pay,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Too many of our children consume excess amounts of sodium, sugar and fats, and are not meeting basic nutritional baselines. It is time we stop subsidizing the promotion of food of poor nutritional value to children.” Companion legislation was introduced in the United States Senate by Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT). Children see an average of 13 food and beverage related TV advertisements per day (about 4,700 per year). In addition to television, companies market to children in many other ways, including the use of toy giveaways, movies and video games, and product placement. This bill is supported by a number of organizations around the country, including the American Academy of Sports Dietitians and Nutritionists, the American Heart Association, the American Institute for Cancer Research, the Franciscan Action Network, MomsRising.org, and the National Education Association.
06.27.2016	Washington DC -- Congressman Tim Ryan applauds the Supreme Court’s decision in Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt to strike down parts of a 2013 Texas law that restrict abortion access. “I applaud the Supreme Court for recognizing that this law did nothing to protect women’s health, but instead created an undue burden on women seeking abortions in Texas. It should not matter what state you live in, women in all 50 states should have access to quality and safe healthcare. This 5-3 ruling is the most significant decision from the Supreme Court on abortion in decades. The decision protects abortion clinics nationwide and signals enduring trust in women and families. This ruling reinforces that the heavy hand of government must not make this decision for women and families. We must get past the ignorance, fear, and—yes—discrimination against women that lead to restrictions on contraception and age-appropriate sex education. Only then can we hope to continue to make significant advances in what should be our true, shared objective: reducing the number of unintended pregnancies, which make up the vast majority of abortions. This not a partisan issue, but instead a personal one. This decision is a major victory for families around the country, but the fight continues,” said Congressman Ryan.
06.22.2016	Washington, DC – Representatives Tim Ryan (OH-13), Donald Norcross (NJ-01), Ann Kirkpatrick (AZ-01) recently introduced the Financial Services for the Underserved Act of 2016 (HR 5541), which would grant those living in underserved and low-income communities the expanded access to insured financial institutions that they need so deeply. Currently, residents of underserved communities have very few banking options, many of them at a high cost to the consumer. Allowing credit unions the opportunity to provide low and no-cost financial services in underserved communities would enable much needed growth and financial security. “Right now millions of Americans living in underserved communities have very little or no access to banking options. This should never be a problem in America. I am proud to introduce this legislation with Representatives Norcross and Kirkpatrick to give our friends and neighbors the same access to safe and reliable credit unions that many of us take for granted every day. This is an important tool that could help millions, and I call on House leadership to pass this bill soon. It is too important to wait,” said Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13). “This legislation would serve as a critical building block to communities seeking to grow by providing additional banking opportunities and financial stability right in their home towns. When these opportunities exist, individuals and businesses have the tools at their disposal to build credit and thrive through commercial development and job creation. And those are critical to economic growth and prosperity. That’s an opportunity that shouldn’t be denied to any community, regardless of zip code,” said Rep. Donald Norcross (NJ-01). "I represent a large, mostly rural district that has twelve Native American tribes, and many of our communities are underserved when it comes to banking options. I'm cosponsoring this legislation because I want to ensure that folks in rural and tribal areas have access to the low-cost and no-cost financial services that credit unions can provide,” said Rep. Ann Kirkpatrick (AZ-01) “We are grateful for Representatives Ryan’s, Norcross’ and Kirkpatrick’s leadership in seeking to remove barriers that limit consumers' access to essential financial services," said Dan Berger, President and CEO of the National Association of Federal Credit Unions. “NAFCU applauds this long-overdue move to allow credit unions to reach out to consumers who need their services the most.” "The more consumers have access to credit unions, the greater access they have to affordable, consumer-focused financial products and services," said Gary Soukenik, CEO of Seven Seventeen Credit Union. "Congress should follow the lead of Rep. Ryan and his colleagues in empowering credit unions, whose existence is rooted in the financial well-being of the members and communities they serve." "CUNA and the Ohio Credit Union League have been working with Rep. Ryan over the last several weeks to ensure the legislation achieves his objectives. We appreciate the support - it is further evidence that Congress is interested in consumers having more access to credit unions,” said Ryan Donovan, Chief Advocacy Officer Credit Union National Association (CUNA). The Financial Services for the Underserved Act of 2016 would allow federal credit unions that are properly capitalized to apply to the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) to add underserved areas (based on census tracts) to their fields of membership.
06.22.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today joined his Democratic colleagues in staging a rare sit-in today on the House Floor to protest the Republican Party’s inaction on gun reform. House Republicans refused to allow the cameras to film this display of free speech, but thanks to social media you can view Congressman Ryan’s Floor speech below. To play this video click here “I am proud to join my Democratic colleagues in today’s rare sit-in on the House Floor to protest Republican inaction on common sense gun reform. After all the tragedies and after all the bloodshed, it is far past time for Congress to act. The Republicans can turn off the cameras and microphones, but we will make sure that those men and women who have lost loved ones from gun violence have their voices heard. The Republican’s refusal to bring forward gun reform legislation makes them weak on terrorism and weak on protecting the American people. We cannot allow them to continue to put any more American lives at risk. We need action now,” said Congressman Tim Ryan.
06.16.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan voted today in favor of the Fiscal Year 2017 House Defense Appropriations Bill which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 282 - 138. “I’m proud to use my position on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee to help craft this legislation and include initiatives that will positively impact our community – including potential opportunities for Youngstown State University, America Makes and the Youngstown Air Reserve Station. While I have serious concerns about the Republican Congress shortchanging our overseas operations, I still believe this overall bill reflects our commitment to the men and women who selflessly serve our nation. We are giving them the tools and training they need to protect our nation and the benefits they deeply deserve,” said Congressman Ryan. Congressman Ryan helped secure $10 million in funding for an additive manufacturing innovation research program based at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio. Youngstown State University, America Makes and the University of Dayton Research Institute won a competitive process to carry out the work on that program. The program seeks to increase the use of additive manufacturing in the military. This is the third year in a row Ryan has secured $10 million for this program. Congressman Ryan also inserted language into the report accompanying the spending bill which seeks to provide new C-130J airplanes for Air Force Reserve Specialized Missions. The 910th Airlift Wing is one of three specialty missions in the Air Force and is solely responsible for the Department of Defense’s aerial spraying capability. Ryan’s language directs the Chief of the Air Force Reserve to prioritize units with the oldest equipment when deciding which specialty missions to upgrade. This legislation provides $517.7 billion in discretionary funds for the base budget for the Department of Defense and $58.6 billion for the Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) funding. The OCO funding will run short at the end of April 2017, forcing the next President to submit a request for emergency war supplemental funding within weeks of being sworn in.
06.14.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today introduced legislation to help hardworking Americans pay down their mortgages. The Building Equity for the American Middle-Class Act (BEAM Act) would create a 50% refundable tax credit on additional principal payments individuals make to their monthly required payment, up to $1000. “Owning a home is an integral part of the American Dream. But this ‘Dream’ should be attainable for every hardworking American. This legislation will help millions pay down their mortgages, making it easier for them to make ends meet and giving them additional financial flexibility to spend their hard earned money on what matters the most – their families,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. To give an example of how this tax credit would work, if a homebuyer purchased a $200,000 home and put 10% down, they would typically pay around $310,000 over the course of the mortgage. This tax credit would allow that same homebuyer to save $20,000 and finish paying their mortgage two and a half years earlier.
06.12.2016	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement regarding last night’s terrorism attack in an Orlando, Florida nightclub: "I am shocked and dismayed by last night’s horrific news. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families and friends. Although we don’t yet know all the details, and in the coming days and weeks there will be a full and thorough investigation, what is clear is that these individuals were targeted because of who they are and who they love. We must do everything in our power to stamp out these cowardice acts of terrorism and we must not feed the negative energies of hate and intolerance. I don’t want this to become the new normal. I don’t want to raise my family in a world filled with fear and uncertainty."
06.12.2016	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement regarding the passing of former Ohio Governor and Senator George Voinovich: “I extend my deepest sympathies to the family of George Voinovich. Former Governor and Senator Voinovich served our state with great distinction all his life. He was a consummate professional who always conducted himself with class and independent leadership. He will be missed.”
05.26.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today in response to Innovation Ohio and the Ohio Education Association’s “Know Your Charter” Report: “As someone who cares deeply about protecting our citizens’ hard earned money, I am completely dismayed by the behavior and incompetence that continues to be revealed at the Ohio Department of Education. Many of my constituents work extremely long hours to try to make ends meet. They do not mind paying their fair share of taxes, so long as those guardians of the public’s money meet their obligation not to waste it. This is the perfect example of why people don't trust the government. “Today’s report is yet another unfortunate example of how too many of our children are being denied a quality education because of the State of Ohio’s corrupt and broken charter school oversight system. As an elected official, and more importantly as a father, I am appalled that Republican state officials would put the profit of private companies over the wellbeing of our children. The $30 million that was wasted on failed charter schools could have, and should have gone to those cash-strapped schools across our state that need it the most. The education of Ohio’s children should not be a partisan issue. Under no circumstance should oversight officials on either side of the aisle allow greed and incompetence to squander away the future our sons and daughters deserve.”
05.26.2016	Washington, DC – For every 1,000 live births, nearly six babies will not survive their first year of life. With the goal of ending these tragedies, Congressmen Tim Ryan (D-OH), Evan Jenkins (R-WV), and John Yarmuth (D-KY) today introduced the Healthy Start Reauthorization Act of 2016. This bipartisan legislation reauthorizes the Healthy Start for Infants Program for Fiscal Years 2017 through 2022. Healthy Start was created in 1991 to support the efforts of local health departments, universities, and community-based organizations working to improve birth outcomes through the early delivery of services to women and families in communities with high rates of infant mortality and other complications. The long-term medical and social services associated with low birthweight infants and children born premature cost taxpayers $26.2 billion per year, with first-year expenses for the smallest surviving babies averaging $273,900. These exorbitant health care costs are borne not only by families, but also by businesses. Employers pay 12 times more for babies born with complications than they do for those born without. “I’ve long fought for Healthy Start funding to help reduce the infant mortality rate and give newborns and their parents the tools they need to lead healthy lives. I’m proud to support this effort to reauthorize this life changing program and will continue to work with my colleagues to press for its enactment," said Congressman John Yarmuth (D-KY). “In the United States, it should go without saying that every baby lives to see his or her first birthday,” said Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH). “Healthy Start has been at the forefront of the fight to save our smallest citizens for 25 years. I am proud to introduce legislation that preserves and builds on the success of this time-tested program, and gives every child a fighting chance at a bright future.” “The drug epidemic is ravaging many of our communities, and we know that babies exposed to drugs, alcohol and tobacco during pregnancy have a greater risk of stillbirth. Nothing is more tragic than the death of an infant, and we must pass commonsense measures to help mothers and babies alike. The Healthy Start Reauthorization Act will do just that, providing the tools needed to help prevent stillbirths. I applaud Rep. Tim Ryan for his leadership on this bipartisan bill – helping babies have a healthy start in life is a cause we can all support,” said Congressman Evan Jenkins (R-WV). The Healthy Start Reauthorization Act of 2016 has been endorsed by the National Healthy Start Association, March of Dimes, the American Congress of Gynecologists and Obstetricians, First Focus Campaign for Children, the Association of Maternal and Child Health Programs, and the American Academy of Pediatrics. “From its inception, Healthy Start has been unique in its design and commitment to deliver culturally-responsive and inclusive systems of care with services adapted to the distinct needs of each community. Using evidence-based approaches, Healthy Start has consistently succeeded in bringing infant mortality rates in vulnerable communities below national rates. The National Healthy Start Association appreciates and applauds Representatives Ryan, Jenkins, and Yarmuth for recognizing this work and supporting the reauthorization of funding for this important community-based program. Saving the lives of babies is an investment in human life and in the economic life of the community,” said Deborah L. Frazier, CEO for the National Healthy Start Association. “The Healthy Start for Infants program has helped reduce infant mortality by supporting community-based review systems, like the National Fetal Infant Mortality Review program (NFIMR), for over 25 years,” said Dr. Thomas Gellhaus, President of the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG). “The leading causes of infant mortality – preterm birth, birth defects, and sleep-related deaths – present real challenges to mothers, their families and their doctors. Infant mortality disproportionately affects communities of color and every state and U.S. territory has a racial disparity in infant mortality rates. It is vital that Healthy Start is reauthorized so programs like NFIMR can continue tackling these issues. ACOG thanks Representatives Ryan, Yarmuth, and Jenkins for taking the lead on this effort.” “It’s unacceptable that the United States has one of the highest infant mortality rates in the developed world,” said Bruce Lesley, president of First Focus Campaign for Children. “The Healthy Start program is a very important tool that improves the health and birth outcomes of pregnant women. We support Healthy Start because it allow communities to develop their own strategies and programs that meet the individual needs of their community. This program should be reauthorized and adequately funded to ensure it reaches the most vulnerable families and children.” “I would like to thank Representatives Ryan, Yarmuth, and Jenkins for introducing this important bill to continue building on a record of success for Healthy Start. State Title V maternal and child health programs are proud to work hand-in-hand with Healthy Start programs in order to achieve our shared goal of reducing infant mortality and improving birth outcomes, with a special eye toward addressing health disparities,” said Lori Tremmel Freeman, CEO of the Association of Maternal & Child Health Programs (AMCHP). “The American Academy of Pediatrics supports the Healthy Start Reauthorization Act of 2016 and thanks Representatives Ryan, Jenkins, and Yarmuth for their leadership introducing the bill, which makes great strides to reduce the infant mortality rate in the United States,” said Benard P. Dreyer, MD, FAAP, president, American Academy of Pediatrics. “Healthy Start programs have been working since 1991 to make sure that women living in communities with high infant mortality rates have access to early prenatal care and infant care, and we support this bill’s extension of Healthy Start for another five years.” March of Dimes' support letter can be found here.
05.24.2016	Washington, DC – With 129 Americans dying each day from drug overdose, Congressman Tim Ryan worked closely with colleagues on the House Appropriations Committee to secure $103 million to combat the opioid epidemic in the Fiscal Year 2017 Commerce, Justice and Science (CJS) Appropriations bill, which passed by voice vote. This funding represents a comprehensive response to addiction, which includes programs for prevention, treatment, recovery, law enforcement, and criminal justice reform. Today’s bill includes: $42 million for drug courts, $12 million for mental health programs, $12 million for residential substance abuse treatment programs for state prisoners, $7 million for veterans treatment court programs and $14 million for prescription drug monitoring programs. The House Appropriations bill also includes $16 million dollars in new funding for the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016 (CARA). “Last week I met with families from around the country who have lost children and loved ones from addiction. These men and women are more than a statistic, they represent all the lost potential that comes when we lose someone too soon. Honestly, it was one of the hardest weeks of my Congressional career. That is why I fought so hard for this additional funding, which is an important step in the right direction to combat this growing crisis,” says Congressman Ryan, a member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Address the Heroin Epidemic, Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus, and chief Democratic sponsor of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act. “This funding is just the beginning, but our communities need more to help provide the treatment, prevention and recovery services that are necessary to help those suffering from this disease.” According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, more Americans die every day from drug overdoses than from car accidents – an average of 129 people per day. The majority of those who need help with addiction issues are not receiving it. Of the approximately 22.7 million Americans who needed treatment for substance use in 2013, only 2.5 million people received it, according to the Office of National Drug Control Policy.
05.18.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan applauds the finalization of a new Department of Labor rule that would effectively double the salary threshold for those eligible for overtime pay. Under this new rule those making at or below $47,476 per year will now be eligible for overtime compensation. Currently, workers earning more than $23,660 per year are not eligible for these benefits. The Department of Labor estimates approximately 4.2 million salaried workers will be affected by this rule change based on their salaries. “This new overtime rule is about respecting American workers – plain and simple. These men and women work hard every day, putting in extra hours and sacrificing family time – yet all too often they are not being compensated for their overtime. Their effort is essential to the private sector’s ability to be profitable and they should be paid accordingly. This will put more money in the pockets of hard working Americans, while at the same time improving work-life balance across our nation,” said Congressman Ryan The rule will take effect December 1, 2016 and contains provisions for automatic updates that will adjust the threshold every 3 years beginning January 1, 2020. This will help ensure that that the income threshold accurately reflects the economic reality for Americans. Before this change the overtime threshold was adjusted just one time since 1970 – in 2004.
05.18.2016	Warren and Atwater, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan today announced almost $170,000 in federal funds for local fire departments. The Howland Fire Department has received $133,572 and the Atwater Fire Department has received $34,286 from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefightters Grant (AFG) Program. “Federal investments are crucial to our first responders and I will always give my support to these types of grants" said Congressman Ryan. “This money will enhance fire and emergency services and provide needed safety equipment to both departments. I congratulate Howland Fire Chief James Pantalone and Atwater Fire Chief Mel Russell for their hard work in obtaining these grants ” “As the annual capital fund budgets of fire departments decrease, these grants continue to assist with keeping fire departments budget in the black and keeps firefighters safe on the job. We will be replacing older models in all of our front line fire apparatus to include improved SCBA packs, bottles, face pieces and voice amplifiers. The firefighters of Howland Township would like to thank Congressman Ryan’s office for their ongoing support of local government and projects such as this that allow us to keep our community safe,” said Howland Fire Chief James Pantalone. "We are very grateful to be receiving this AFG Grant. We are desperately in need of upgrading our current SCBA fill system. Since purchasing new SCBA's last year with AFG Grant monies our current system is obsolete. We have been relying on some of our neighboring departments to fill our bottles as needed. Thank you to Capt. Paula Baughman for all of her hard work, and research that went into writing this grant,” said Atwater Fire Chief Mel Russell. The goal of the AFG program is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and emergency medical service organizations. Operations and Safety grants can be used for professional training, wellness and fitness programs equipment, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critical equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. For more information, visit the program’s website.
05.17.2016	Akron and Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan today congratulates the cities of Akron and Youngstown for being selected by Reinvestment Fund and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation to take part in the new Invest Health initiative, aimed at transforming how leaders from mid-size American cities work together to help low-income communities thrive. Akron and Youngstown will each receive a $60,000 grant to improve healthy living opportunities for residents by addressing factors that drive health, such as access to safe and affordable housing, places to play and exercise, and quality jobs. “I applaud Akron and Youngstown for being selected to be a part of this distinguished initiative and receiving these funds to help improve the health of our communities. Youngstown and Akron are both working to achieve these goals though different means – Akron will address obesity, hypertension, diabetes and cancer through creating more walkable neighborhoods that will enhance the well-being of its citizens; Youngstown will address health disparities linked to poor quality housing and infrastructure by decreasing lead hazards in homes, reducing abandoned properties and enhancing public spaces. I am proud that Akron and Youngstown are using these innovative techniques to ensure that those in our communities are able to lead healthy, vibrant and secure lives,” said Congressman Ryan. "Our Invest Team members were very enthusiastic about applying for this grant, meeting and completing the requirements in a short period of time. We believe our ability to do this and the fact that we as partners have a history of collaboration contributed to the strength of the Akron team’s application. We are looking forward to beginning the program and ultimately engaging the Middlebury neighborhood in a variety of sustainable initiatives that promote physical, economic, and social health,” said Dr. Terry Albanese, Assistant to the Mayor for Education, Health and Families. “The intended health outcome disparities that the Invest Health Plan intends to address in the City of Youngstown are all issues that the Health District is committed to reducing i.e. high rates of obesity, high blood pressure and diabetes due to inactive lifestyle and long-term developmental effects resulting from exposure to lead in poor quality housing and property conditions. The Youngstown City Health District is committed to this collaborative initiative with the Youngstown Neighborhood Development Corporation, Youngstown State University, Mercy Health Foundation, and Eastgate Regional Council of Governments to improve the quality of life for the residents of Youngstown city neighborhoods.” Erin Bishop, Health Commissioner, Youngstown City Health District. Akron and Youngstown were selected from more than 180 teams from 170 communities that applied. The initiative focuses on cities with populations between 50,000 and 400,000. Mid-size American cities face some of the nation’s deepest challenges with entrenched poverty, poor health and a lack of investment, but they also offer fertile ground for strategies that improve health and have the potential to boost local economies. Over the next 18 months, Akron and Youngstown will join other Invest Health teams in sharing best practices and receiving technical assistance from expert advisors and coaches, along with engaging with other local stakeholders to encourage knowledge sharing. Akron: The health outcomes we intend to address through Invest Health are obesity, hypertension, diabetes, and cancer. The aim is to create a more walkable neighborhood with attractive destinations that will enhance all facets of well-being. Potential opportunities include: retail and coffee shops, adult primary care, collaborative space for social and educational programming surrounding healthy lifestyles and food preparation, community gardening, and educational and skill building resources. Purposeful infrastructure and retail development on the open space has the potential for the greatest impact. Further developments such as adult primary care offices, child care, housing, and other destination places will be clear signs of community investment and vitality. Youngstown: The city of Youngstown will foster healthy neighborhoods by addressing disparities in health outcomes linked to poor quality housing and infrastructure. The Invest Health team will address the following: 1) reducing the number occupied homes in serious disrepair with lead hazard issues; 2) reducing the number wide open, abandoned properties littered with trash, debris and criminal activity; 3) improving the safety and condition of sidewalks and streetscapes connecting residents to neighborhood assets; and 4) enhancing the condition of infrastructure in city parks and other public spaces.
05.16.2016	Youngstown – At a reception held today at the Butler Institute of American Art in Youngstown, Congressman Tim Ryan announced the winners of the 13th District Congressional Art Competition. There were 82 entries this year from high schools around the District. "I think it is important to recognize the importance of the creative arts in the lives of our students and encourage them to participate in artistic endeavors as often as possible," said Congressman Ryan. "Creative individuals are the members of our community that will move our city forward – teachers, artists, engineers, architects and city planners. These men and women will help northeastern Ohio reshape its’ future." Best of Show: Arielle Kreuzwieser, Ursuline High School. Her artwork will hang in the Capitol Tunnel in Washington, D.C. for eleven months. She is also the recipient of two Southwest Airline tickets to Washington, D.C. for a Capitol Hill reception in mid-June. 1st Place: Damani Santiago, Cardinal Mooney High School. Her artwork will hang in the Washington, D.C. office of Congressman Tim Ryan, Longworth HOB 1421. 2nd Place: Natalie Steigmann-Gall, Firestone High School 3rd Place: Emma Cruz, Niles McKinley High SchoolHonorable Mention Bristen Evans, Valley Christian High School Isabella Latell, Ursuline High School Tori Goff, Norton High School Gianna Allesse Jones, Warren G. Harding High School Sarah Skiver, Ursuline High School Hayley Ohl, Trumbull Career & Technical Center Allison Simon, Firestone High School Elisabeth Butto, Boardman High School Elsie Kibler, Ursuline High School Jenny Wang, Firestone High School Kwame’ Gomez, Firestone High School Anna Warhol, Boardman High School
05.13.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan votes in support of comprehensive opioid and heroin prevention legislation – this package of bills passed the House of Representatives today with bipartisan support. In March, the Senate passed the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), the differences between the House and Senate versions of this legislation will be worked out in Conference. To watch Ryan speak in support of comprehensive legislation click here “Fatal drug overdose is the leading cause of accidental death in the state of Ohio – in Cuyahoga Country alone, we are seeing an average of one death a day from overdose. Heroin and prescription drug addiction is destroying lives, disrupting families and destabilizing communities here in Ohio and across our nation – I am proud that the House passed legislation today to start stemming this ever-growing tide,” said Congressman Ryan. “As Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus, I understand the tremendous damage substance abuse inflicts – it is unfortunate, but I don’t think I remember a day gone by when I didn’t watch on TV, hear on the radio or see firsthand the toll this epidemic has taken on our communities. This legislation is a step in the right direction, and I will continue to push Congressional leadership to pass emergency funding so we can provide law enforcement officers, public health officials, community leaders, and educators the resources they need to tackle this issue. I promise to continue fighting to put an end to this national tragedy.” Ryan worked closely with Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) -- who led the Republican efforts on the legislation. Ryan and Sensenbrenner introduced the Comprehensive Opioid Reduction Act of 2016, which is one piece of the larger legislation package. This bill creates a comprehensive opioid abuse reduction program at the Department of Justice that will provide targeted focus on how to tackle the massive problem of substance abuse, including the expansion of prescription drug monitoring programs and resources for veterans treatment court programs. To watch Ryan speak during debate of comprehensive legislation click here Ryan is a Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus and a member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic. Ryan cosponsored the following bills, some of which ended up in the package of bills that passed by the House of Representatives this week: Ryan introduced with Congressman Sensenbrenner the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (HR 953) Ryan was an original cosponsor of the Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act (HR 4063) Ryan was a cosponsor of NAS Healthy Babies Act (HR 4978) Ryan was a cosponsor of Improving Treatment for Pregnant and Postpartum Women Act of 2016 (HR 3691) Ryan was a cosponsor of John Thomas Decker Act of 2016 (HR 4969) Ryan was a cosponsor of the Heroin and Prescription Opioid Abuse Prevention, Education and Enforcement Act Ryan was an original cosponsor of the Original Cosponsor of Stop Overdose Stat Act of 2015 (HR 2850) Ryan was an original cosponsor of the Comprehensive Justice and Mental Health Act (HR 1854) Ryan was a cosponsor of the TREAT Act (HR 2536) Ryan was an original cosponsor of the Stop Trafficking in Fentanyl Act of 2015 (HR 4183) Ryan was an original cosponsor of the Breaking Addiction Act of 2015 (HR 1988) Ryan has sent the following letters regarding the ongoing opioid and prescription drug epidemic: Letter to Speaker Ryan on expediting opioid and heroin legislation and attaching emergency funding to the to this effort. Letter to FDA with expressing concerns with the FDA’s decision to approve the opioid prescription painkiller OxyContin for use by children as young as 11 years old. Letter to the Drug Enforcement Administration urging the DEA to clarify its existing regulations regarding partially fill opioid prescriptions. Letter to Office of Management and Budget, Department of Health and Human Services, and Office of the National Drug Control Policy to call on the Administration to identify sources of funding to help communities purchase and distribute naloxone.
05.06.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement on the U.S. Treasury Department’s rejection of the Central States Pension Fund’s proposed plan that would have cut the pensions of more than 47,000 Ohioans and 10 million Americans nationwide. “I applaud the Department of Treasury for making the right decision and rejecting this atrocious plan that would have decimated tens of thousands of Ohioans, including 4,000 in my district, and millions of Americans’ retirement. It is not only wrong, but immoral to gut the pensions that these hard working Americans earned. “Pensions are not ‘benefits’ given as a gift from employer to employee, they are payment for work that was already done. And when these pensions are cut or dissolved, it is a clear breach of contract and workers are being robbed. “This is a positive announcement, but the fight is not over. Moving forward I will continue to work with my Congressional colleagues to ensure that these Americans get what they are owed.” Ryan strongly and vocally opposed the Multiemployer Pension Reform Act of 2014 (which allowed multi-employer pension plans to reduce payments to remain solvent) and voted against the FY2015 Omnibus Appropriations Bill, in which this legislation was included. As a result, workers that gave up raises and other benefits to get a pension are now vulnerable to losing as much as 60 percent of their hard-earned benefits. Ryan is an original cosponsor of the Pension Accountability Act (HR 4029) and the Keep Our Pension Promises Act (HR 2844). In February of 2016, Ryan urged Kenneth Feinberg, Special Master for Implementation at the U.S. Department of Treasury (the official in charge of approving the Central States Pension Fund’s plan who made today’s announcement) to strongly oppose the reduction in benefits proposed by the Central States Board of Trustees. In April 14, 2016, Ryan spoke at the International Brotherhood of Teamsters Washington, DC Rally Ryan and Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) hosted a Special Order on the Floor of the House of Representatives to Raise Awareness of Central States Pension Issue.
05.06.2016	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan announces $19,146 for Youngstown State University. This federal grant was made available through the U.S. Department of Health and Human services and this funding will go to a YSU nurse anesthetist traineeship program. “I am proud to have had the opportunity to help YSU secure this important funding. Northeast Ohio is known far and wide for our world-class healthcare industry, with almost 50,000 health related jobs in our Congressional District alone. This funding will allow our young people get the training and experience they need to be ready to enter the workforce and continue our region’s legacy as a leader in the field of healthcare," said Congressman Ryan.
05.05.2016	Youngstown, Ohio - Congressman Tim Ryan announces $791,700 for the Youngstown-Warren Regional Airport to acquire snow removal equipment. "I'm proud to have helped secure this important funding for our community. As we know all too well, Northeast Ohio winters can be grueling, and it's important that the airport is able to dig itself out and keep the planes moving," said Congressman Ryan. "Youngstown-Warren Regional Airport is a vital resource to the Valley and we must continue investing in its future and ensure that its infrastructure is up to date. Furthermore, proper maintenance and continued improvements of the airfield is critical to the Youngstown Air Reserve Station, which has a huge economic impact in our community." This project will fund the acquisition of a replacement dedicated rotary blower and broom equipment to keep the airport serviceable during snow periods and aid in the efficiency and safety of operations. It will also fund a pavement study to develop a plan for maintaining the airfield pavement in a safe and serviceable condition.
05.05.2016	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan announces the certification petition for Trade Adjustment Assistance for Warren companies MSSL Wiring System, Inc. and Adecco Staffing. “We are seeing more and more jobs moving overseas due to uneven playing fields and unfair trade policies. As we work to eliminate unfair advantages abroad and make sure that hardworking Americans are given the resources necessary to succeed in this global economy, we must also make sure we are helping those impacted in the present,” said Congressman Ryan “I am pleased that MSSL Wiring System, Inc. and Adecco Staffing employees, who lost their jobs through no fault of their own, will now be able to access the services they need to help them land on their feet.” The Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) Program is a federal program that assists US workers who have lost their jobs as a result of foreign trade. The program provides trade-affected workers with opportunities to obtain the skills, resources, and support they need to become reemployed. For example, Trade Readjustment Allowances will provide income support while workers are participating in full-time training, which may include classroom and/or on the-job training, customized training, post-secondary education, prerequisite education or coursework and remedial education. The cost of training is paid to the training provider by the State with TAA Program funds. In addition, the Health Care Tax Credit makes health insurance more affordable for trade-affected workers by paying 72.5% of health insurance premiums.
04.27.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan spoke at the United Steelworkers annual Rapid Response Conference in Washington DC last night. The conference was centered around unfair trade, specifically the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). Ryan made the following statement: "All we have to do is look at the shuttered factories across Ohio to know what past trade deals have done to our communities. Free trade without fair trade threatens manufacturing, innovation and inevitably leads to hundreds of thousands of American jobs being shipped overseas. "The Trans-Pacific Partnership is a broad and overarching deal that makes up 40% of the world’s GDP, gives corporations wide-ranging powers to challenge federal law, and does nothing to address currency manipulation – which has, and will continue to, cost the United States millions of jobs. "Almost on a daily basis, I am confronted with stories from my constituents whose lives has been negatively impacted by past trade agreements. All these hardworking Americans ask for is a level playing field so they can get the compensation they deserve – but TPP does not live up to these basic standards. "I promise to stand with my brothers and sisters in the United Steelworkers and fight this deal until the bitter end."
04.27.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan’s legislation to require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to appoint a coordinator to address the issue of harmful algal blooms in the Great Lakes passed the House of Representatives on Tuesday. Ryan was joined by a bipartisan group of Ohio members, including: Representatives Marcy Kaptur (D-OH-9), Marcia Fudge (D-OH-11), Jim Renacci (R-OH-16), David Joyce (R-OH-14), Joyce Beatty (D-OH-3), Peter Visclosky (D-ID-1), Chris Collins (R-NY-27). This legislation (H.R. 1923) was included as a provision in Rep. Joyce’s bill, the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative Act, which passed the House today. To watch Ryan's speech click here “Ohio’s abundance of fresh water is a vital resource and strategic advantage, and it’s critical that we do everything in our power to combat these harmful algal blooms that threaten the health and well-being of our state. Lake Erie supports more than 117,000 fulltime jobs and provides clean drinking water to approximately 3 million Ohioans. We must continue to do everything in our power to ensure that Lake Erie and the Great Lakes can continue to thrive,” said Representative Tim Ryan. This legislation will ensure that there is a coordinator at the EPA to work with the appropriate federal agencies and state, local, tribal and foreign governments to address this critical issue affecting the state of Ohio. It has been endorsed by the Ohio Environmental Council, Freshwater Future, the Alliance for the Great Lakes, the Healing Our Waters-Great Lakes Coalition, and the Ohio Charter Boat Association and other groups. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative Act, which includes Congressman Ryan’s algal bloom coordinator provision, still must pass the Senate and be signed by the President before becoming law.
04.21.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Ryan today hosted a briefing on the dramatic increase in maternal opioid use and neonatal abstinence syndrome. This briefing was in conjunction with the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus (in which Ryan is the Co-Chair) and the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic (in which Ryan is a member). When a pregnant woman uses opioids during pregnancy, she is putting her child at risk of respiratory complications, low birth weight, feeding difficulties, and seizures. And unfortunately every 25 minutes, a baby is born suffering from opioid withdrawal, with an estimated 21,732 babies born with this syndrome since 2012. “As Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recover Caucus, it is my duty to raise awareness about this troubling issue. As the United States responds to the heroin and prescription drug epidemic, it is important to remember these newborns who are unfortunately the most vulnerable and youngest victims of this ongoing crisis. This syndrome is treatable, and we must do everything in our power to make sure these children are given the care they need to live long, healthy lives,” said Congressman Ryan. The briefing included presentations from Dr. Wilson Compton, MD, MPE, Deputy Director, National Institute on Drug Abuse, NIH; Dr. Melinda Campopiano, MD, Medical Officer, Division of Pharmacologic Therapies, Center for Substance Abuse Treatment, SAMHSA; Dr. Hendree Jones, PhD, Executive Director of UNC Horizons; and Dr. Arthur R. James, MD, member of the Division of Adolescent Medicine and an OB/GYN for The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center.
04.20.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan announces $45.5 million in federal tax credits from the National Park Service for certified rehabilitation work on historic buildings across Akron and Youngstown. Goodyear Hall in Akron will receive $31 million in tax credits and the Wick Building in Youngstown will receive $14.5 million in tax credits. “Northeast Ohio has a wonderful history, and I am proud to have helped secure these critical tax credits for Goodyear Hall and the Wick Building to help continue that tradition. I am happy to see that the National Park Service understands the prominent role these facilities still play in our communities. These resources will stimulate our economy, while helping to preserve these buildings so that our children, and our children’s children, can appreciate these great landmarks,” said Congressman Ryan. These tax credits are intended to encourage the rehabilitation and preservation of historic buildings and to promote economic renewal of older communities. To be eligible for these credits, the National Park Service must certify the building as historic and determine that the completed rehabilitation work preserves the historic character of the building. Since 1977, the National Park Service has certified more than 39,000 rehabilitation projects, representing a rehabilitation investment of more than $69 billion.
04.20.2016	UPDATE: The United States Ambassador to Brazil Liliana Ayalde in a phone call notified Congressman Ryan this evening that Brazilian Authorities have arrested Claudia Hoerig and are holding her in custody. Congressman Ryan expresses his deepest gratitude to Ambassador Ayalde and all the foreign service officers assisting in this case for their hard work and commitment to justice. Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan and Trumbull County Prosecutor Dennis Watkins announced that yesterday, Brazil’s Supreme Court justices ruled by a majority of three to two to uphold the Brazilian Ministry of Justice’s administrative decision that had revoked Claudia Hoerig's Brazilian citizenship – allowing extradition procedures to move forward. “It has been almost nine years ago that my constituent, Major Karl Hoerig, had his life cut short, and for nine years his family and friends have seen no justice. This is a man who bravely served our nation, with nearly 200 combat missions in Iraq and Afghanistan under his belt – we owe it to him to ensure that his killer, Claudia Hoerig, stands trial for her heinous crime,” said Congressman Ryan. “It is with cautious optimism that Prosecutor Watkins and I announce today’s court decision—which closed off one of Claudia’s last options to avoid extradition back to Ohio. While Claudia Hoerig’s lawyers will surely attempt to place procedural hurdles in our way, we have taken a massive leap forward in bringing her to justice.” “I am very happy with the positive developments from the Supreme Court of Brazil and I am cautiously optimistic that an action will be taken that will bring Claudia Hoerig back to Trumbull County to stand trial in the murder of her husband, Airman Karl Hoerig,” said Trumbull County Prosecutor Dennis Watkins. “Both Congressman Ryan and I have worked tirelessly on this case for years—and we’re not going to let this go.” "The Hoerig family is encouraged by the courts decision, but understand there are a couple more hurdles to cross before we can celebrate,” said Paul Hoerig, brother of Karl Hoerig. “We are waiting for Claudia to reach U.S. soil. Getting to this point has been a group effort, and we would like to thank all those involved with getting us to this point." “This is good news from Brazil. I am very optimistic that justice will be served for Karl Hoerig, his family and friends,” said Larry Diemand, Founder of the ‘Justice for Karl Hoerig’ Facebook Page – whiched serves as a center of support for Karl’s family and friends. Diemand served with Major Hoerig as a C-130 Hercules pilots with the Youngstown Air Force Reserve, and flew combat support missions with Major Hoerig in Saudi Arabia in 1994. Ryan has been informed that Brazil's Public Prosecutor of the Republic has requested from the Brazilian Supreme Court an arrest warrant against Claudia Hoerig as a consequence of yesterday’s ruling. This request is part of the extradition procedure. On May 22, 2013, Ryan was able to pass an amendment to the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee to restrict immigrant visas for Brazilian nationals and citizens, which would put a moratorium on processing any additional visas for Brazilian citizens. This amendment was later taken out of the final Appropriations bill, but got the attention of the nation of Brazil. Ryan on amendment banning Brazilian visas. To watch click here. On July 31, 2013, Brazil revoked Claudia Hoerig’s citizenship —the first step in the process of extraditing her to the United States to stand trial. The announcement came shortly after legislative efforts by Congressman Ryan garnered international attention to the case. Until this point, Brazil’s refusal to extradite any of its own citizens was the main barrier towards extraditing Claudia. Congressman Ryan petitioned Brazil to revoke Claudia’s citizenship so the extradition could move forward. Background on the murder of Karl Hoerig: On March 15th, 2007 U.S. Air Force Reserve Major Karl Hoerig, a veteran with nearly 200 combat missions over Iraq and Afghanistan under his belt, was found fatally shot in his home. The primary suspect, who has also been charged with the murder, is Claudia Hoerig, his wife at the time and a Brazilian national. Three days prior to Karl being found, Claudia had emptied her husband’s bank account, wired additional money to relatives in Brazil, and fled the U.S. to Brazil. As a private pilot for Southwest Airlines, Karl and Claudia Hoerig were entitled to free airfare. Claudia took advantage of this benefit after the murder to flee to her home country. Claudia Hoerig has remained free from justice since 2007, avoiding trial by taking advantage of a provision in the Brazilian constitution that bans extradition of any Brazilian citizen. This provision in the Brazilian constitution was added after a 1961 treaty in which Brazil promised to extradite criminals such as Hoerig to the U.S. Brazilian Extradition Policy: Unlike the United States constitution, the constitution of the Federative Republic of Brazil explicitly prohibits the extradition of its citizens charged with one or more criminal acts. While the United States’ policy is to extradite to Brazil persons facing charges in that country, Brazil’s law enforces the prohibition of extradition of its nationals. Nevertheless, the United States continues to provide Brazilian nationals with visas for entry into the United States. The result is that nationals of the Federative Republic of Brazil who commit criminal acts on US soil are able to evade justice under the sanctuary of the Brazilian government simply by fleeing to Brazilian territory. Congressman Ryan’s Action Timeline on the Claudia Hoerig Case: (LETTER) May 4, 2007 letter to U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales(link is external) (LETTER) May 4, 2007 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice(link is external) (LETTER) November 20, 2007 letter to Brazilian Foreign Minister Amorim (link is external) (LETTER) November 27, 2007 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Patriota (link is external) (LETTER) November 29, 2007 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Patriota (link is external) (MEETING) December 18, 2007 Ryan meets with Brazilian Officials regarding Hoerig Case (VIDEO) April 3, 2008 Ryan facilitates AMVETS Commander to speak on Hoerig Case (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Patriota(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to Brazilian Chamber of Deputies President Arlindo Chinaglia (link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to Brazilian President Lula da Silva(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to President of the Senate Garilbaldi Alves(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to U.S. Ambassador to Brazil Clifford Sobrel(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice(link is external) (LETTER) March 4, 2009 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton(link is external) (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 11, 2009 Ryan introduces Ryan-Boccieri Hoerig Resolution (LETTER) March 3, 2011 letter to U.S. President Barack Obama (link is external) (LETTER) May 26, 2011 letter to Mary Warlow, U.S. Director of International Affairs, Dept. of Justice (link is external) (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 21, 2011 Ryan introduces Brazilian Foreign Aid Fairness Act (LETTER) July 27, 2011 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton (VIDEO) June 7, 2012 Ryan Spoke on House Floor on Claudia Hoerig and Brazilian Visa Amendment (BILL INTRODUCTION) February 14, 2013 Ryan Introduces "End Immunity for Brazilian Criminals Act" and the "Karl Hoerig Foreign Aid Suspension Act” (LETTER) March 12, 2013 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Mauro Vieira (VIDEO) April 17, 2013 Ryan protests Brazilian contract during Defense Appropriations Hearing over Hoerig Case (PRESS RELEASE) April 22, 2013 Ryan Questions Former Defense Secretary Hagel May 22, 2013 Ryan introduces Amendment to restrict immigrant visas for Brazilians (PRESS RELEASE) July 31, 2013 Brazil Revokes Hoerig’s Citizenship (VIDEO) June 5, 2013 Ryan speaks on House Floor on Amendment to Restrict Brazilian Immigrant Visas (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 15, 2015 Ryan introduces ‘Karl Hoerig Foreign Aid Suspension Act’ (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 15, 2015 Ryan introduces ‘End Immuity for Brazilian Criminals Act’ (PRESS RELEASE) July 31, 2013 Brazil Revokes Hoerig’s Citizenship (PRESS RELEASE) June 29, 2015 Ryan Calls on Brazilian President to Extradite Hoerig Letters Received: December 17, 2007 letter from Brazillian Ambassador Patriota(link is external) December 17, 2007 letter from the U.S. State Department(link is external) December 21, 2007 letter from the Brazil Ministry of External Relations(link is external) January 23, 2008 letter from the Justice Department Office of Legislative Affairs(link is external) May 23, 2008 letter from the State Department Office of Legislative Affairs(link is external) February 24, 2009 letter from the State Department Office of Legislative Affairs(link is external) September 19, 2011 letter from the State Department Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs October 24. 2011 letter from the Brazillian Ambassador to the United States of America, Mauro Vieira
04.20.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan and Trumbull County Prosecutor Dennis Watkins announced that yesterday, Brazil’s Supreme Court justices ruled by a majority of three to two to uphold the Brazilian Ministry of Justice’s administrative decision that had revoked Claudia Hoerig's Brazilian citizenship – allowing extradition procedures to move forward. “It has been almost nine years ago that my constituent, Major Karl Hoerig, had his life cut short, and for nine years his family and friends have seen no justice. This is a man who bravely served our nation, with nearly 200 combat missions in Iraq and Afghanistan under his belt – we owe it to him to ensure that his killer, Claudia Hoerig, stands trial for her heinous crime,” said Congressman Ryan. “It is with cautious optimism that Prosecutor Watkins and I announce today’s court decision—which closed off one of Claudia’s last options to avoid extradition back to Ohio. While Claudia Hoerig’s lawyers will surely attempt to place procedural hurdles in our way, we have taken a massive leap forward in bringing her to justice.” “I am very happy with the positive developments from the Supreme Court of Brazil and I am cautiously optimistic that an action will be taken that will bring Claudia Hoerig back to Trumbull County to stand trial in the murder of her husband, Airman Karl Hoerig,” said Trumbull County Prosecutor Dennis Watkins. “Both Congressman Ryan and I have worked tirelessly on this case for years—and we’re not going to let this go.” "The Hoerig family is encouraged by the courts decision, but understand there are a couple more hurdles to cross before we can celebrate,” said Paul Hoerig, brother of Karl Hoerig. “We are waiting for Claudia to reach U.S. soil. Getting to this point has been a group effort, and we would like to thank all those involved with getting us to this point." “This is good news from Brazil. I am very optimistic that justice will be served for Karl Hoerig, his family and friends,” said Larry Diemand, Founder of the ‘Justice for Karl Hoerig’ Facebook Page – whiched serves as a center of support for Karl’s family and friends. Diemand served with Major Hoerig as a C-130 Hercules pilots with the Youngstown Air Force Reserve, and flew combat support missions with Major Hoerig in Saudi Arabia in 1994. Ryan has been informed that Brazil's Public Prosecutor of the Republic has requested from the Brazilian Supreme Court an arrest warrant against Claudia Hoerig as a consequence of yesterday’s ruling. This request is part of the extradition procedure. On May 22, 2013, Ryan was able to pass an amendment to the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee to restrict immigrant visas for Brazilian nationals and citizens, which would put a moratorium on processing any additional visas for Brazilian citizens. This amendment was later taken out of the final Appropriations bill, but got the attention of the nation of Brazil. Ryan on amendment banning Brazilian visas. To watch click here. On July 31, 2013, Brazil revoked Claudia Hoerig’s citizenship —the first step in the process of extraditing her to the United States to stand trial. The announcement came shortly after legislative efforts by Congressman Ryan garnered international attention to the case. Until this point, Brazil’s refusal to extradite any of its own citizens was the main barrier towards extraditing Claudia. Congressman Ryan petitioned Brazil to revoke Claudia’s citizenship so the extradition could move forward. Background on the murder of Karl Hoerig: On March 15th, 2007 U.S. Air Force Reserve Major Karl Hoerig, a veteran with nearly 200 combat missions over Iraq and Afghanistan under his belt, was found fatally shot in his home. The primary suspect, who has also been charged with the murder, is Claudia Hoerig, his wife at the time and a Brazilian national. Three days prior to Karl being found, Claudia had emptied her husband’s bank account, wired additional money to relatives in Brazil, and fled the U.S. to Brazil. As a private pilot for Southwest Airlines, Karl and Claudia Hoerig were entitled to free airfare. Claudia took advantage of this benefit after the murder to flee to her home country. Claudia Hoerig has remained free from justice since 2007, avoiding trial by taking advantage of a provision in the Brazilian constitution that bans extradition of any Brazilian citizen. This provision in the Brazilian constitution was added after a 1961 treaty in which Brazil promised to extradite criminals such as Hoerig to the U.S. Brazilian Extradition Policy: Unlike the United States constitution, the constitution of the Federative Republic of Brazil explicitly prohibits the extradition of its citizens charged with one or more criminal acts. While the United States’ policy is to extradite to Brazil persons facing charges in that country, Brazil’s law enforces the prohibition of extradition of its nationals. Nevertheless, the United States continues to provide Brazilian nationals with visas for entry into the United States. The result is that nationals of the Federative Republic of Brazil who commit criminal acts on US soil are able to evade justice under the sanctuary of the Brazilian government simply by fleeing to Brazilian territory. Congressman Ryan’s Action Timeline on the Claudia Hoerig Case: (LETTER) May 4, 2007 letter to U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales(link is external) (LETTER) May 4, 2007 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice(link is external) (LETTER) November 20, 2007 letter to Brazilian Foreign Minister Amorim (link is external) (LETTER) November 27, 2007 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Patriota (link is external) (LETTER) November 29, 2007 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Patriota (link is external) (MEETING) December 18, 2007 Ryan meets with Brazilian Officials regarding Hoerig Case (VIDEO) April 3, 2008 Ryan facilitates AMVETS Commander to speak on Hoerig Case (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Patriota(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to Brazilian Chamber of Deputies President Arlindo Chinaglia (link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to Brazilian President Lula da Silva(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to President of the Senate Garilbaldi Alves(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to U.S. Ambassador to Brazil Clifford Sobrel(link is external) (LETTER) April 21, 2008 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice(link is external) (LETTER) March 4, 2009 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton(link is external) (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 11, 2009 Ryan introduces Ryan-Boccieri Hoerig Resolution (LETTER) March 3, 2011 letter to U.S. President Barack Obama (link is external) (LETTER) May 26, 2011 letter to Mary Warlow, U.S. Director of International Affairs, Dept. of Justice (link is external) (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 21, 2011 Ryan introduces Brazilian Foreign Aid Fairness Act (LETTER) July 27, 2011 letter to U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton (VIDEO) June 7, 2012 Ryan Spoke on House Floor on Claudia Hoerig and Brazilian Visa Amendment (BILL INTRODUCTION) February 14, 2013 Ryan Introduces "End Immunity for Brazilian Criminals Act" and the "Karl Hoerig Foreign Aid Suspension Act” (LETTER) March 12, 2013 letter to Brazilian Ambassador Mauro Vieira (VIDEO) April 17, 2013 Ryan protests Brazilian contract during Defense Appropriations Hearing over Hoerig Case (PRESS RELEASE) April 22, 2013 Ryan Questions Former Defense Secretary Hagel May 22, 2013 Ryan introduces Amendment to restrict immigrant visas for Brazilians (PRESS RELEASE) July 31, 2013 Brazil Revokes Hoerig’s Citizenship (VIDEO) June 5, 2013 Ryan speaks on House Floor on Amendment to Restrict Brazilian Immigrant Visas (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 15, 2015 Ryan introduces ‘Karl Hoerig Foreign Aid Suspension Act’ (BILL INTRODUCTION) June 15, 2015 Ryan introduces ‘End Immuity for Brazilian Criminals Act’ (PRESS RELEASE) July 31, 2013 Brazil Revokes Hoerig’s Citizenship (PRESS RELEASE) June 29, 2015 Ryan Calls on Brazilian President to Extradite Hoerig Letters Received: December 17, 2007 letter from Brazillian Ambassador Patriota(link is external) December 17, 2007 letter from the U.S. State Department(link is external) December 21, 2007 letter from the Brazil Ministry of External Relations(link is external) January 23, 2008 letter from the Justice Department Office of Legislative Affairs(link is external) May 23, 2008 letter from the State Department Office of Legislative Affairs(link is external) February 24, 2009 letter from the State Department Office of Legislative Affairs(link is external) September 19, 2011 letter from the State Department Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs October 24. 2011 letter from the Brazillian Ambassador to the United States of America, Mauro Vieira ###
04.19.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan is proud to announce that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has changed a rule that would do serious harm to Summit Racing, a locally-based company, and other manufacturers and retailers of aftermarket racing parts. Ryan believes that vehicles manufactured for, modified for, or utilized in organized motorized racing events would not be encompassed by the Clean Air Act’s definition of “motor vehicle” and applauds this rule change. “I remain a strong supporter of the EPA and believe wholeheartedly that we need rules to protect our nation from harmful pollutants that can threaten our health and welfare if left unchecked. In this case, however, I believe the EPA went too far. That’s why I spoke out publicly against the proposed rule recently during a visit to Summit Racing in Tallmadge, and it’s why I cosponsored legislation to force the EPA to end their unfair enforcement against aftermarket racing suppliers. Summit Racing and other companies in Ohio and elsewhere would be negatively affected if this had been allowed to continue. The EPA did the right thing by overturning this shortsighted rule and recognizing the serious harm that would have been made to communities like ours who have a long history of motor racing, but I will continue to urge my colleagues to pass legislation to prevent this from happening again.” said Congressman Ryan. Congressman Tim Ryan cosponsored H.R. 4715, the Recognizing the Protection of Motorsports (RPM) Act of 2016, to ensure that the conversion of automobiles into racecars used exclusively at the track may continue. Highlights from Congressman Ryan’s visit to Summit Racing can be found here.
04.19.2016	Canton, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan announces $4,015,174 to provide funding to the Stark Area Regional Transit Authority. “I am proud to announce that this important funding is coming home to Stark County. These new zero-emission buses will increase the availability of public transit, decrease costs for taxpayers and improve our environment. I look forward to continuing to work with my friends in Stark County to bring these types of innovative programs to our region,” said Congressman Ryan. This funding was made available through the Federal Transit Administration’s Fiscal Year 2015 Low or No Emission Deployment Program. The Stark Area Regional Transit Authority (SARTA) will receive $4,015,174 toward three zero-emission American Fuel Cell Buses (AFCBs). This project will build on SARTA's successful, existing fuel cell bus program, which has already established hydrogen fuel cell infrastructure and will soon deploy five additional AFCBs in Stark County. Congressman Tim Ryan is a member of the House Appropriations Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee and represents Alliance and parts of Stark County.
04.19.2016	Kent, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan is announcing $444,238 from the National Institute on Aging of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for research on Alzheimer’s Disease to be awarded to Kent State University for a three-year grant. “The faculty and administration at Kent State University understand the importance of securing federal funding to promote research in areas that can improve people’s lives. If we are going to make advances in the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease, we need to make the right investments—and I am proud of the work that Kent State University does in medical and scientific research,” said Congressman Ryan. “I want to commend Dr. Gemma Casadesus, Associate Professor of Biology at Kent State University for her commitment to this important work and congratulate her on this grant award." “This award will allow us to better understand how a metabolic hormone, amylin, that shows benefits on memory and Alzheimer's pathology, works,” said Dr. Casadesus. “It will also allow us to better understand how we can use it to prevent Alzheimer's disease in at risk populations such those suffering from metabolic syndrome and/or diabetes. Given the rising increases in these disorders and the lack of optimal tools to diagnose Alzheimer's early enough to treat it, preventive therapies are an important treatment strategy.” The purpose of the Academic Research Enhancement Award (AREA) program is to stimulate research in educational institutions that provide baccalaureate or advanced degrees for a significant number of the Nation's research scientists. AREA grants create opportunities for scientists and institutions to contribute to the Nation's biomedical and behavioral research effort. The National Institute on Aging is one of the 27 Institutes and Centers of the National Institutes of Health, and leads the federal government in conducting and supporting research on aging and the health and well-being of older people. The Institute seeks to understand diseases and conditions associated with growing older, in order to extend the healthy, active years of life. The National Institute on Aging is the primary federal agency for Alzheimer’s disease research.
04.18.2016	Vienna, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan and Senator Sherrod Brown host a seminar today at the Youngstown Air Reserve Station (YARS) to help Mahoning Valley small businesses learn about opportunities to work with the federal government. Ryan and Brown will speak at the workshop. “As a member of the Defense Appropriations Committee and after returning from the Middle East, I have seen first-hand the complex global threats that our nation faces – and am thankful for the men and women at YARS working to keep our nation safe and secure. I’m happy that we had the chance today to build off YARS’ success and connect the base with our local business community. The public-private partnerships that can be born from these opportunities have the unique ability to bolster both our national security and local economy, and I look forward to continuing to work to foster these relationship,” said Ryan. “Our nation has the best Air Force in the world, but the men and women in uniform can’t serve alone,” Brown said. “They rely on our industrial power to provide them with the best support and equipment possible. That’s why workshops like this are so important. By connecting small businesses with our acquisition offices at the Defense Department, we both grow our economy and support our nation’s military.” More than 100 people representing more than 30 businesses registered to attend the event where officials from the Small Business Administration (SBA) outlined the process, qualifications, and opportunities to become a federal contractor. Ryan and Brown are strong supporters of YARS and the Ohio Air National Guard. In December 2015, Brown and Ryan, along with U.S. Sen. Rob Portman (R-OH), U.S. Reps. Johnson and Joyce, sent a letter to Lt. Gen. Jackson, United States Air Force urging the replacement of the 910th Airlift Wing’s C-130 H aircraft. They want the planes upgraded to a C-130 J aircraft so the base can continue its specialized aerial spray missions. In 2015, Ryan and Brown helped secure 9.4 million for YARS to help improve the indoor firing range facility. The range is used to train and test airmen for qualifications with their service weapons for personal protection and ground base defense. The current range is 30 years old and fails to meet current safety requirements. This funding will correct this serious deficiency and improve the training that occurs at YARS. Learn more here.
04.14.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan continued his fight today to protect the pensions of more 47,000 Ohioans and 10 million Americans nationwide. Ryan attended and spoke at a rally today with the Teamsters at the U.S. Capitol Building and made a speech on the House Floor to advocate on behalf for these Ohioans and Americans who are facing cuts to their pensions. To watch Congressman Ryan's House Floor speech click here. “This was the first time in decades that a law would drastically cut the pensions of current retirees. These hardworking Americans deserve a strong and secure retirement. I owe it to the 4,044 participants in the Central States Pension Plan in my district to fight for their future and fix the financial solvency of their benefits. I will stop at nothing to ensure that they get the respect they deserve and the payments they are owed,” said Congressman Ryan.
04.12.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan testified today on behalf of the United States steel industry to protect this important industry from unfair trade practices. Manufacturing employs 662,000 Ohioans and contributes $99.8 billion or nearly 18% of our state’s GDP. Congressman Ryan testified at the International Trade Commission (ITC) before officials from the U.S. Department of Commerce, Office of International Trade and Investment, U.S. Treasury, U.S. Department of State, and the Office of Trade, Customs and Border Patrol. “The global oversupply of steel and illegal dumping by countries like China have had a devastating effect on the steel industry here in Ohio, and in towns like ours across the country. Unfortunately we have seen firsthand the massive negative impact caused when plants are closed and friends and family lose their source of income – and it has a rippling effect that touches every part of the community. I will continue using my position in Congress to fight to unstack the deck and give our workers an equal playing field, because with that, no one can out compete the United States of America.” On March 29th, Congressman Ryan submitted written testimony for today’s ITC hearing. And this Thursday, Congressman Ryan will speak before the Congressional Steel Caucus’ annual State of Steel hearing. Some steel pipe and tube companies in Ohio’s 13th District, including JMC Energex (Cambridge, Niles, Warren), TMK IPSCO (Brookfield), Vallourec USA (Youngstown), Bull Moose Tube (Masury) have been impacted by these practices. Congressman Ryan has a long history of working to protect our steel industry and manufacturing base, including support of a recently announced positive trade ruling for Vallourec USA and TMK IPSCO that maintains the existing antidumping (AD) and countervailing duty (CVD) orders on seamless carbon and alloy steel standard, line, and pressure pipe from China.
04.04.2016	Baghdad, Iraq – Congressman Tim Ryan traveled to Iraq on the latest stop of a trip across the Middle East as part of his work on the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. Ryan met with U.S. and Iraqi military commanders as well as Commander of the Combined Joint Task Force, General MacFarland, in Iraq, leader of our Special Forces Operations, General Roberson, Ambassador to Iraq Stuart Jones, Sunni tribal leaders and visited several military sites on the front lines of the US led battle against ISIS. “ISIS is a global threat to all civilized nations. They want to kill Americans and Westerners. We've seen this global threat play out in Paris, Brussels and San Bernadino. Many of these killers come out of Iraq and Syria which I why I wanted to go to the front lines of this war and see exactly what we need to do to destroy them there before they come here. My first obligation is to keep Americans safe. And I want my constituents to know that I am deeply committed to dealing with this issue from my position on the Defense Appropriations Committee. "While we have ISIS on the run in Iraq we must put together a global strategy that will include many nations, some of them Muslim, to destroy and defund their network. This will not be easy, but America must lead the way because if this responsibility is left to others it simply will not get done. "I am so proud of the men and women I met, many of which are from Ohio. The service members, diplomats and aid workers who risk their lives everyday in the global struggle. We continue to pray for them and their families as we work together to address the most defining issue of our time." Congressman Ryan is available for interviews regarding his trip to the Middle East on tomorrow, Monday April 4th. If you are interested in speaking with Congressman Ryan please email Michael.Zetts@mail.house.gov. Earlier this week, Congressman Ryan traveled to Israel, the United Arab Emirates (U.A.E.), Bahrain, and Naval Station Rota in Spain. In Israel, Congressman Ryan met with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and visited several military sites to get an update on the country’s missile defense systems and joint missile defense efforts with the U.S. Ryan also met with Israel Defense Force (IDF) soldiers and the U.S. Ambassador to Israel Daniel Shapiro. In the U.A.E., Ryan met with U.S. and Emirati defense leaders and visited military sites focused on missile defense. In Bahrain, Congressman Ryan met with U.S. Navy leadership and servicemembers, to discuss regional threats that impact stability in the Middle East and our national security. In Spain, Congressman Ryan toured Naval Station Rota and went onboard an U.S. Navy Aegis-class destroyer to observe its missile defense capabilities firsthand.
04.01.2016	Manama, Bahrain – Congressman Tim Ryan was in Bahrain on the latest stop of a trip across the Middle East, as part of his work on the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. Congressman Ryan and his colleagues on the congressional delegation met with U.S. Navy leadership and servicemembers to discuss regional threats in the region. During the visit, Congressman Ryan met servicemembers aboard the USS Harry S. Truman, an aircraft carrier deployed in the Persian Gulf. “Across the Middle East, the U.S. Navy plays a critical role in the safety and security of our nation and the region. I’m proud to have had the opportunity to meet with servicemembers stationed on the USS Harry S. Truman and gain a better understanding of the complex international challenges we face. These men and women are courageously serving our nation and working every day to make the world a safer place and I am honored to have had the chance to spend time getting to know them. As a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, I take my responsibility seriously and will continue doing everything I can to ensure that our military has what it needs to complete their missions safely and effectively,” said Congressman Ryan. Congressman Tim Ryan meeting with servicemembers stationed on the USS Harry S. Truman The trip to Bahrain comes after Congressman Ryan and the delegation traveled to Israel and the United Arab Emirates (U.A.E.). In Israel, Congressman Ryan met with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and visited several military sites to get an update on the country’s missile defense systems and joint missile defense efforts with the U.S. Ryan also met with Israel Defense Force (IDF) soldiers and the U.S. Ambassador to Israel Daniel Shapiro. In the U.A.E., Ryan met with U.S. and Emirati defense leaders and visited military sites focused on missile defense.For high-resolution photos please email Michael.Zetts@mail.house.gov.
03.31.2016	Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates — Congressman Tim Ryan, who serves on the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, was in the United Arab Emirates (U.A.E.) to review U.S. efforts to strengthen cooperation among Arab Gulf states on missile defense. Congressman Ryan, traveling with a Congressional delegation in the Middle East, met with U.S. military leaders as well as a member of the U.A.E. Ministry of Defense, and toured Emirati missile defense sites. “I was honored to have the opportunity to tour U.A.E.’s missile defense facilities and was able to see firsthand the work being done to strengthen the safety and security of the region. The U.A.E. is a critical leader in the Middle East and I look forward to continued collaboration with our allies in the Gulf,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. Congressman Ryan with the Congressional delegation meeting U.A.E. Assistant Undersecretary for Policy and Strategic Affairs, Matar Salem Ali Al Dhaheri Congressman Ryan’s visit to the U.A.E comes after he was in Israel, where he met with Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and toured Israeli military sites to get an update on the country’s missile defense systems and joint missile defense efforts with the U.S. Donnelly also met with Israel Defense Force (IDF) soldiers and the U.S. Ambassador to Israel Daniel Shapiro. For high-resolution photos please email Michael.Zetts@mail.house.gov
03.30.2016	Jerusalem, Israel — Congressman Tim Ryan, who serves on the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, is traveling with a Congressional delegation in the Middle East this week and was in Israel for the first stop of the trip. He and the delegation met with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and visited several military sites to get an update on the country’s missile defense systems and joint missile defense efforts with the United States. Congressman Ryan and the group also met with U.S. Ambassador to Israel Daniel Shapiro and members of the Israeli Defense Forces (IDF). “I was honored to have the opportunity to meet with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to discuss and reaffirm the important strategic relationship between our two nations. I remain committed to using my position on the House Appropriations Defense Subcommittee to strengthen partnerships with our allies around the globe, including our most steadfast ally in the Middle East, Israel. Touring the Iron Dome battery further emphasized the importance of this relationship, the need for increased collaboration moving forward, and the value of close friends in the region,” said Congressman Ryan. Congressman Ryan with Prime Minister Netanyahu in Jerusalem Congressman Ryan with the Congressional delegation visiting an Iron Dome battery in Ashkelon For high-resolution photos please email Michael.Zetts@mail.house.gov
03.29.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan yesterday fought to protect the United States steel industry from unfair trade practices. Countries like China are continuing to illegally attack our nation’s manufacturing workers by dumping steel into our markets and diluting the price of the product. Manufacturing employs 662,000 Ohioans and contributes $99.8 billion or nearly 18% of our state’s GDP. “The U.S. Steel industry is the heart and soul of our country’s manufacturing base. Growing up in Niles, Ohio I have seen firsthand both the positive impact a robust steel industry can have on a community, and the devastation caused by steel plant closures all over the country,” said Congressman Ryan. “There is no doubt we need to implement strong trade enforcement practices to level the playing field for our steel workers and manufacturing workforce. I hope my testimony gives the Department of Commerce and the U.S. Trade Representative a better understanding of how important the steel industry is to Ohio and the United States.” Some steel pipe and tube companies in Ohio’s 13th District, including JMC Energex (Cambridge, Niles, Warren), TMK IPSCO (Brookfield), Vallourec USA (Youngstown), have been impacted by these practices. Congressman Ryan has a long history of working to protect our steel industry and manufacturing base, including support of a recently announced positive trade ruling for Vallourec USA and TMK IPSCO that maintains the existing antidumping (AD) and countervailing duty (CVD) orders on seamless carbon and alloy steel standard, line, and pressure pipe from China. View the full written testimony here.
03.29.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today applauds President Obama’s plan to address our nation’s growing heroin and prescription drug epidemic. President Obama announced his actions at this year’s National Rx Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit. “I applaud President Obama for today’s actions and his continued commitment to ending our nation’s ever growing prescription drug and heroin epidemic. Right now, 2.1 million Americans are abusing prescription pain relievers – yet only 1 in 10 suffering from substance abuse gets treated. This is costing our nation $600 billion nationally in health, crime and lost productivity costs, but that is nothing compared to the toll it is taking on our families and friends. In our state of Ohio, drug overdose is now the leading cause of accidental death, we cannot continue to allow heroin and prescription drugs to reap havoc on our communities. "As the Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus, I have heard from many constituents and groups from around the country, and personally I have seen these tragedies play out in my own community. I promise to continue working with the President and call on my Congressional colleagues to pass the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) and help to bring an end to this horrible epidemic,” said Congressman Ryan. Together, President Obama’s actions have made clear that addressing this epidemic is a priority for his Administration, and today's actions represent further steps to expand access to treatment, prevent overdose deaths and increase community prevention strategies. But the House of Representatives also has a part to play – Congressman Ryan has called on, and will continue to call on the House to pass the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery (CARA) Act, which Ryan introduced in February of 2015. The Senate passed its version of CARA with overwhelming bipartisan support, it is time for the House to do its part. This wide-ranging legislation provides for a robust response to the prescription drug and heroin epidemic that includes prevention, law enforcement strategies and the expansion of evidence-based treatment. President Obama announced the following Administration actions today: Expanding Access to Treatment: The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is issuing a proposed rule to increase the current patient limit for qualified physicians who prescribe buprenorphine to treat opioid use disorders from 100 to 200 patients with the goal of expanding access to this evidence-based treatment while preventing diversion. The proposed rule aims to increase access to medication-assisted treatment and behavioral health supports for tens of thousands of people with opioid use disorders. Congressman Ryan has been a longtime supporter of this initiative and is a cosponsor of the TREAT Act which similarly increases the number of patients a buprenorphine (Suboxone) prescriber can treat and expands the ability to prescribe buprenorphine to nurse practitioner and physician assistants. Implementing Mental Health and Substance Use Disorder Parity in Medicaid: HHS is finalizing a rule to strengthen access to mental health and substance use services for people enrolled in Medicaid and Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) plans by requiring that these benefits be offered at parity, meaning that they be comparable to medical and surgical benefits. These protections are expected to benefit more than 23 million people in Medicaid and CHIP. Congressman Ryan has been a longtime supporter of this initiative and has lead multiple letters to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the U.S. Department of Labor to finalize and implement this rule. Preventing Opioid Overdose Deaths: SAMHSA is releasing a new $11 million funding opportunity to States to purchase and distribute the opioid overdose reversal drug, naloxone, and to train first responders and others on its use along with other overdose prevention strategies. Congressman Ryan has been a longtime supporter of this initiative and is a cosponsor of Stop Overdose Stat Act which similarly requires SAMHSA to enter into cooperative agreements to reduce deaths from drug overdoses by: purchasing and distributing naloxone, and educating or training the public, first responders, or health professionals on drug overdose prevention or response. Establishing a Mental Health and Substance Use Disorder Parity Task Force: The President is signing a Memorandum today directing the creation of an interagency Task Force, to be chaired by the Domestic Policy Council, to advance access to mental health and substance use disorder treatment; promote compliance with best practices for mental health and substance use disorder parity implementation; and develop additional agency guidance as needed. Expanding Public Health-Public Safety Partnerships to Combat the Spread of Heroin: The Office of National Drug Control Policy is expanding its heroin initiative among regional High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTAs) by adding Ohio and Michigan to the effort. Investing in Community Policing to Address Heroin: The Department of Justice's COPS program is announcing a $7 million funding opportunity called the COPS Anti-Heroin Task Force Program to advance public safety and to investigate the distribution of heroin, unlawful distribution of prescription opioids and unlawful heroin and prescription opioid traffickers. Tackling Substance Use Disorders in Rural Communities: On Monday, the Department of Agriculture announced that its $1.4 million Rural Health and Safety Education Grant Program to enhance the quality of life in rural areas through health and safety education projects has been expanded to include a focus on addressing the critical challenges related to substance use disorders in rural communities across the country. Implementing Syringe Services Programs: HHS is issuing guidance for HHS-funded programs regarding the use of Federal funds to implement or expand syringe services programs for people who inject drugs. Syringe services programs are an effective component of a comprehensive approach to preventing HIV and viral hepatitis among people who inject drugs. The bipartisan budget agreement signed by the President last year revised a longstanding ban on these programs and allows communities with a demonstrated need to use Federal funds for the operational components of syringe services programs. New Private Sector Commitments to Address the Epidemic: In connection with today's Federal announcements, more than 60 medical schools are announcing that, beginning in fall 2016, they will require their students to take some form of prescriber education, in line with the newly released Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Guideline for Prescribing Opioids for Chronic Pain, in order to graduate. Schools include: Ohio State University College of Medicine Ohio University Heritage College of Osteopathic Medicine
03.29.2016	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement after learning of the Internal Revenue Service's decision to delay the Health Care Tax Credit Advance Pay Feature: The IRS decision to delay the Health Care Tax Credit Advance Pay feature is wrong and adds insult to injury for the many Delphi retirees and others in my District and around the country who were counting on this assistance to help them pay for the health care coverage they need and deserve. I call on the IRS to immediately rescind this decision and take the necessary steps to implement the HCTC Advance Pay feature so that those who qualify for this benefit can access it. The IRS has options available to it that would allow the advance pay feature to be operative by July, 1 of this year. I urge them to keep their commitment to our retirees.
03.17.2016	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan yesterday offered an amendment during the House Budget Committee Fiscal Year 17 Budget Markup to help prevent prescription drug and heroin abuse – providing $1 billion in mandatory funding over two years to ensure that Americans are able to access treatment for prescription opioid abuse and heroin use. Despite overwhelming support for addressing our nation’s growing heroin epidemic, every single Republican member of the Budget Committee voted against Congressman Ryan’s amendment. To watch video click here There is an opioid epidemic in the United States. According to new data from the Centers for Disease Control, nearly 29,000 Americans—or 78 people each day—died from opioid-involved drug overdoses in 2014. The amendment provides $1 billion in mandatory funding for the President’s two-year initiative to prevent prescription opioid and heroin abuse by expanding access to treatment. The initiative includes: $920 million over two years for the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMSHA) to fund cooperative agreements with states to improve the availability of medication-assisted treatment for opioid use disorders. States will receive funds based on the severity of the epidemic and on the strength of their strategy to respond to it. States can then use these funds to expand treatment capacity and make services more affordable. $30 million over two years to SAMSHA to assess the effectiveness of treatment programs employing medication-assisted treatment under real-world conditions and help identify opportunities to improve treatment for patients with opioid use disorders. $50 million over two years to the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) to expand access to substance use treatment providers through the National Health Service Corps. This funding will help support approximately 700 providers to provide substance use disorder treatment services—including medication-assisted treatment—in areas across the country most in need of behavioral health providers. This increased funding is offset by an equal amount of revenue from reducing tax expenditures for the top one percent of income earners, or from reducing unjustified corporate tax breaks, including special depreciation for corporate jets, loopholes that allow inversions and encourage firms to ship jobs/capital overseas and shelter their profits in foreign tax havens, the “carried interest” loophole that allows hedge fund managers to disguise their compensation as capital gains, tax subsidies for the major integrated oil companies, or corporate deductions for CEO bonuses and other excessive executive compensation exceeding $1 million per year.
03.16.2016	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement on President Obama’s nomination of Federal Appeals Court Judge Merrick Garland to the United States Supreme Court: President Obama is nominating a man who has dedicated the majority of his professional life to public service, with the goal of making the United States a more just country. Judge Garland has a world class legal mind and has the respect of both Democrats and Republicans. I stand behind this nomination and call on the Senate to fulfill their Constitutional duty. I have heard continued calls from my Republican colleagues to hold on any Supreme Court nominees until a new President has been elected, but we cannot allow a seat on our nation’s highest court to sit vacant for 11 months because of partisan differences – the American people deserve more from their elected representatives. President Obama has not taken this nomination lightly and understands the political reality and has nominated a man who has received vocal support over the years from both sides of the aisle. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell should meet with Judge Garland, schedule hearings, and ultimately give Judge Garland an up or down vote on his nomination. The President had done his part – it’s time for the Senate to follow suit.
03.10.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan applauds Senate passage of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), Congressman Ryan introduced the House version of CARA in February of 2015. This legislation provides for a robust response to the prescription drug and heroin epidemic that includes prevention, law enforcement strategies and the expansion of evidence-based treatment. Congressman Ryan is the Co-Chairman of the House Addiction Treatment and Recovery Caucus. “As Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus, I understand the damage substance abuse inflicts upon the nation. In my state of Ohio, fatal drug overdoses have been the leading cause of accidental death since 2007. Heroin and opiate addiction is destroying lives, disrupting families, and destabilizing communities – it is imperative that we begin to stem this tide. The provisions in this legislation are proven to work and I applaud the Senate for passing this important legislation, now it’s time of the House of Representatives to do its duty and follow suit,” said Congressman Ryan. The legislation is supported by more than 90 organizations, including the National District Attorneys Association, the National Association of State Alcohol and Drug Abuse Directors (NASADAD), Faces and Voices of Recovery, the National Council for Behavioral Health, and the Major County Sheriffs’ Association, among others.
03.04.2016	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan applauds today’s announcement that the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC) has agreed to restore 1,350 RG Steel LLC employees’ pensions who worked at facilities in Warren, Ohio and Wheeling, West Virginia. “These hardworking Americans had their pensions and benefits ripped away through no fault of their own. We cannot allow companies to evade their responsibilities. These are our brothers and sisters, friends and neighbors, they earned these benefits and paid into their pensions, and I am glad that they are justly being made whole,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. Under the agreement, PBGC will restore plans covering 1,350 people who worked at Renco’s former subsidiary, RG Steel LLC, which is liquidating in bankruptcy. PBGC took responsibility for the plans, which had a funding gap of about $70 million, in 2012. The participants in the two plans worked at RG Steel facilities in Wheeling, West Virginia and Warren, Ohio. The agreement resolves litigation that PBGC brought in the U.S. district court in Manhattan. PBGC alleged that Renco attempted to evade financial responsibility for the RG Steel pension plans by concealing the transfer of its ownership interests from RG Steel. In the settlement, Renco agreed to take the plans back as of June 1, 2016, pay all future benefits promised to the former RG Steel employees, and make back payments for the benefits not guaranteed by PBGC. Renco also agreed to reimburse the agency for $15 million in benefits that it paid to RG Steel retirees since PBGC took over the plans. Additionally, the company will pay about $35 million in shutdown benefits that would have gone unpaid absent the restoration of the pension plans.
03.03.2016	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan announces $2,406,229 to be awarded to Trumbull Community Acton Program in Warren, Ohio. “I’m pleased to announce that the Trumbull Community Action Program has received this important funding,” Congressman Ryan said. “Head Start’s mission to provide social services to low-income children gives our kids the support and tools they need to succeed. This program is critical to so many in our community and across the nation and I am happy that these funds are going to such a good cause.” This grant is part of the Head Start: Full Year Part Day Handicapped Training and Technical Assistance program though the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). These funds are to fund the program from November 1, 2015 through October 31, 2016.
03.03.2016	Washington, DC – During a hearing of the House Defense Subcommittee on Appropriations, Congressman Tim Ryan urged Secretary of the Air Force Deborah Lee James and Chief of Staff of the Air Force Gen. Mark Welsh to upgrade the current fleet of C-130s in use by the Air Force Reserve's 910th Airlift Wing. The 910th is home to the Department of Defense's only aerial spray capability and based at Youngstown Air Reserve Station (YARS), Ohio. Last year, Congressman Ryan added legislative report language to the FY16 Defense Appropriations Bill which directed the United States Air Force to prioritize the recapitalization of the Air Force's three special mission aircraft systems: the Modular Aerial Spray System, Mobile Airborne Fire Fighter System, and the Weather Reconnaissance Squadron (aka Hurricane Hunters). To view the video click here
03.02.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH) applauds today’s passage in the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee of his bipartisan legislation (HR 1923) to require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to appoint a federal coordinator to address the issue of harmful algal blooms in the Great Lakes, which has affected over a half million Ohioans. Ryan’s bipartisan legislation was cosponsored by Representatives David Joyce (D-OH), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Marcia Fudge (D-OH), Pete Visclosky (D-IN), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Chris Collins (R-NY), and Jim Renacci (D-OH). The legislation was passed as a part of Rep. Joyce’s Great Lakes Restoration Initiative Act of 2015 (HR 223). HR 223 now awaits a vote by the full House of Representatives. “Lake Erie supports over 117,000 fulltime jobs and provides drinking water to approximately 3 million Ohioans. I’m proud that our legislation is moving forward, the need for a full time coordinator within the EPA to ensure our fresh water is safe from harmful algal blooms is long overdue,” said Rep. Tim Ryan. “For the sake of Ohio’s future, Lake Erie and the Great Lakes must be able to thrive. Ohio’s abundance of fresh water is a vital resource and strategic advantage, and I will continue to do everything in my power to combat water pollution that threatens the health and well-being of our state.” Congressman Ryan’s legislation has been endorsed by the Ohio Environmental Council, Freshwater Future, the Alliance for the Great Lakes, the Healing Our Waters-Great Lakes Coalition, and the Ohio Charter Boat Association.
03.02.2016	Washington, DC – Leading Democratic lawmakers today urged the Securities and Exchange Commission to speed up its review of a proposal that would require companies to provide more specific details about the diversity of their corporate boards. The proposal, which nine public pension fund administrators submitted to the SEC almost a year ago, encourages the agency to require companies to disclose board nominees’ gender, racial, and ethnic diversity. In a letter to SEC Chair Mary Jo White, the lawmakers pressed the SEC to act on the proposal without any further delay. Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA), the senior Democrats on the Senate Banking and House Financial Services Committees, respectively, led the letter, which was also signed by Sens. Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), and Cory Booker (D-NJ), and Reps. Tim Ryan (D-OH), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Marcia Fudge (D-OH), and Joyce Beatty (D-OH). The Ohio Public Employees Retirement System (OPERS) and eight other public pension fund administrators – including the California Public Employees’ Retirement System and the New York State Common Retirement Fund – submitted their rulemaking petition for more board diversity disclosure on March 31, 2015. “While we applaud your decision to have SEC staff review OPERS’ petition, we are disappointed with the amount of time the SEC is taking to examine and seek public comment on this important and widely supported proposal,” the lawmakers wrote in their letter to White. “Investment advisors, shareholders, policymakers, and other stakeholders have been telling the SEC and others for decades now that the diversity characteristics of board nominees and directors is information they need to make informed investment and voting decisions. Similarly, stakeholders have been explaining for decades that enhanced diversity disclosures may promote sociodemographic diversity on corporate boards, which in turn may promote better business strategy and corporate results,” the lawmakers added. The SEC adopted a rule change in 2009 that required publicly-traded companies to disclose more information on director selection and diversity. In their letter, the lawmakers outlined the new rule’s limitations, noting that companies have taken a variety of different approaches to disclosing board nominees' qualifications and skills. And since the rule does not define diversity, the lack of a standard makes it difficult for shareholders and investors to make informed decisions when voting for directors. To strengthen the quality of disclosures, the rulemaking petition encourages the SEC to require companies to indicate in a chart or matrix the qualifications, skills, and racial and gender composition of their board nominees. “Such a requirement, with minimal burden and cost on companies, would aid in everyone’s understanding, including the SEC’s understanding, of each company’s approach,” the lawmakers wrote. Women, who make up half the American workforce, hold just 16 percent of seats on corporate boards, and it could be decades before the gender gap in boardrooms closes, according to a recent Government Accountability Office report. The report, which Rep. Maloney requested in May 2014, found that it may take 40 years or more to reach a 50-50 gender balance on corporate boards. The full text of the letter is below. A signed copy can be found online here. March 2, 2016 The Honorable Mary Jo White Chair Securities and Exchange Commission 100 F Street, N.E. Washington, D.C. 20549 Dear Chair White: We are writing to urge the Commission to seek public comment, without any further delay, on a proposed amendment submitted nearly a year ago by the Ohio Public Employees Retirement Systems (OPERS) and several leading public fund administrators on behalf of public fund fiduciaries.[1] While we applaud your decision to have SEC staff review OPERS’ petition, we are disappointed with the amount of time the SEC is taking to examine and seek public comment on this important and widely supported proposal. Investment advisors, shareholders, policymakers, and other stakeholders have been telling the SEC and others for decades now that the diversity characteristics of board nominees and directors is information they need to make informed investment and voting decisions. Similarly, stakeholders have been explaining for decades that enhanced diversity disclosures may promote sociodemographic diversity on corporate boards, which in turn may promote better business strategy and corporate results.[2] In 2009, the SEC partly acknowledged these stakeholders and their concerns when it required publicly-traded companies to disclose more information on director selection and diversity. Specifically, the SEC required reporting on (1) the companies’ minimum qualifications, if any, for all directors, and any specific qualities or skills that at least one director must possess; and (2) whether and, if so, how the board considers diversity in identifying board nominees and if a diversity policy exists, how it is implemented and judged effective. The SEC did not define diversity.[3] The 2009 rule change, however, fell short of providing stakeholders the information they need on board diversity. First, company disclosures now describe with varying levels of specificity the minimum qualifications and skills they use to identify directors. Yet many disclosures lack the clarity and detail needed for stakeholders to judge easily and accurately whether (1) the company’s approach to director qualifications and skills are appropriate in light of the company’s overall business strategy and (2) the slate of board nominees is suitable. These disclosures could be improved, as OPERS explains, by also requiring a chart or matrix that visually depicts the company’s approach to director qualifications and skills. Such a requirement, with minimal burden and cost on companies, would aid in everyone’s understanding, including the SEC’s understanding, of each company’s approach. Second, while companies now provide disclosure on the consideration of diversity in the board selection process, these disclosures often do not describe the concept of diversity with reference to sociodemographic characteristics such as gender, race, or ethnicity, or provide the sociodemographic characteristics of the board nominees.[4] These disclosures could be improved, yet again with minimal burden and cost on companies, by using a chart or matrix that lists whatever information each board nominee provides to the company about his or her gender, race, and ethnicity. Indeed, many companies already use charts or matrices to communicate biographical information about board nominees; for those companies, this change may be as simple as adding new columns to an existing chart. In addition to being minimally burdensome, these types of improvements to board diversity disclosure are widely supported. Fifteen of 19 stakeholders told the U.S. Government Accountability Office last year that they support improving SEC rules to require more specific information from public companies on board diversity. Twelve stakeholders explicitly supported the SEC requiring companies to disclose the number of women on the board.[5] Moreover, the Council of Institutional Investors has endorsed the use of charts and matrices as “especially useful” disclosure tools for evaluating board candidates.[6] Again, we strongly urge the Commission to avoid any further delay on seeking public comment on this straightforward proposal. Thank you for considering our views on this important matter. Sincerely, Sen. Sherrod Brown, Ranking Member, Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Rep. Maxine Waters, Ranking Member, House Financial Services Committee Sen. Robert Menendez Sen. Jeff Merkley Sen. Cory Booker Rep. Marcy Kaptur Rep. Carolyn Maloney Rep. Tim Ryan Rep. Marcia Fudge Rep. Joyce Beatty Cc: The Honorable Michael Piwowar The Honorable Kara Stein ### Michael Zetts Communications Director Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13) Office: 202.225.5261 Mobile: 330.398.2569Michael.zetts@mail.house.gov [1] Leaders from the following entities signed the Petition for Amendment of Proxy Rule Regarding Board Nominee Disclosure – Chart / Matrix Approach (File No. 4-682): the California Public Employees Retirement System; the California State Teacher’s Retirement System; the Connecticut Retirement Plans and Trust Fund; the Illinois State Board of Investment; New York City; the New York State Common Retirement Fund; the North Carolina Department of State Treasurer; the Ohio Public Employees Retirement Systems; and the Washington State Investment Board. [2] See U.S. Glass Ceiling Commission, A Solid Investment: Making Full Use of the Nation’s Human Capital (Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1995), at 42-43. [3] Item 407(c)(2)(v)-(vi) of Regulation S-K. [4] Dhir, Aaron, Challenging Boardroom Homogeneity: Corporate Law, Governance, and Diversity (Cambridge University Press, 2015), at 175-76. [5] Corporate Boards: Strategies to Address Representation of Women Include Federal Disclosure Requirements, GAO-16-30 (Dec. 2015), at 24-25. [6] See, e.g., Council of Institutional Investors, Best Disclosure: Director Qualifications & Skills (Feb. 2014).
03.01.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan is announcing the thirty-fifth anniversary of the Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery.” This nationwide art competition gives local students an opportunity to showcase their talent, and a chance to have their entry hang as part of an eleven month exhibit in the Cannon Tunnel that leads to the U.S. Capitol building in Washington, D.C. The 13th Congressional District Art Competition is open to all high school students who live or attend school in the 13th Congressional District. “The Congressional Art Competition is a great opportunity for our local students to participate on a national stage, and have their artwork seen by thousands of people,” said Congressman Ryan. “In our complex world the arts are often overshadowed by issued deemed to be more pressing, but it is important to maintain a strong relationship with our arts communities, and this competition reaffirms that importance in our daily lives.” The Congressional Art Competition was created in 1982, and hundreds of thousands of high school students have participated at the local level. This year the Butler Institute of American Art in Youngstown will host the 2016 13th Congressional District Art Competition Awards Ceremony on Saturday, May 14th at 10:30a.m. In addition, the winning artist will be invited to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony and reception to be held in the Capitol Complex in Washington, D.C. in June. After the local contest, the Best of Show artwork will hang in the Capitol Tunnel in Washington, D.C., and the 1st place winner’s artwork will hang in our Washington, D.C. office, Longworth HOB 1421. All artwork must be submitted either to Congressman Ryan’s Warren or Youngstown offices by 4p.m. on Wednesday, April 20th. We will accept art pieces at the Akron office on Wednesday, April 20th from 8:30a.m.-5:00p.m. If you have any questions, please contact Samantha Lemke at (330) 740-0193 or Samanta.Lemke@mail.house.gov.
02.23.2016	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan is pleased to announce the successful certification of Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) for laid-off workers at Warren Steel Holdings, LLC who were engaged in activities related to the production of semi-finished steel billets. This certification includes on-site leased workers from Accountemps and Alliance Solutions in Warren, Ohio. TAA will assist workers in their search for re-employment through income support, training, assistance with healthcare premium costs, employment and case management services, and may include job search and relocation allowances. “When jobs are unfairly taken from our local communities and shipped overseas due to a rigged system, we must make it a priority to make sure hardworking Americans are given the resources necessary to succeed in this global economy. I am pleased that employees at Warren Steel Holdings will now be able to access the services they need to help them land on their feet. Through no fault of their own, these men and women have found themselves in a dire situation, and I am committed to continue to work with the company, union officials and employees to help them through this difficult transition,” said Congressman Ryan. The Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) Program is a federal program that assists US workers who have lost their jobs as a result of foreign trade. The program provides trade-affected workers with opportunities to obtain the skills, resources, and support they need to become reemployed. For example, Trade Readjustment Allowances will provide income support while workers are participating in full-time training, which may include classroom and/or on the-job training, customized training, post-secondary education, prerequisite education or coursework and remedial education. The cost of training is paid to the training provider by the State with TAA Program funds.
02.23.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to today’s announcement on President Obama’s plans to close the U.S. military prison at Guantanamo Bay: Earlier this morning President Obama presented the nation with a sensible and detailed plan to finally close our nation’s military prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Today’s announcement by the President reiterates my continued commitment to closing this facility. There is no doubt that there is a clear economic benefit of closing Guantanamo -- to do so would save the American tax-payer over $1.7 billion over the next 20 years. But there is also the undeniable fact that this prison hurts the United States’ standing in the world, and works against our efforts to combat terrorism wherever it hides. While there is no denying the heated political rhetoric flying around this topic, this is not a partisan issue. Even President George W. Bush expressed his desire to close this base. I applaud President Obama for outlining a comprehensive plan to finally close this prison for good. We must seize this moment to do what is right. It is a moral imperative. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House to support this plan, and bring this dark and controversial chapter of American history to a close.
02.22.2016	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement in response to the death of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia: My thoughts and prayers are with the family and friends of Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court Antonin Scalia, especially his wife Maureen and their children. Justice Scalia had a huge impact on the Court, and while I often disagreed with him, I always respected his intellect and his commitment, especially to the law students he knew would follow in his footsteps. I thank him for his dedicated service to the Court and to our country.
02.22.2016	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan announces positive trade ruling for Vallourec USA and TMK IPSCO. The U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) voted 6-0 in the affirmative to maintain the existing antidumping (AD) and countervailing duty (CVD) orders on seamless carbon and alloy steel standard, line, and pressure pipe from China. “I applaud Vallourec and TMK IPSCO’s on this positive trade ruling that will strengthen manufacturing here in our community and across the nation. This decision is proof that China is illegally taking advantage of our American workers—and gaining an unfair gain provided not by competition and higher productivity, but by government subsidies and currency manipulation. I am proud to continue standing up against China and any nation who tries to undermine American jobs,” said Congressman Ryan. These carbon and alloy steel seamless line and pressure pipe products are made for the energy sector. The ITC’s action comes under the five-year (sunset) review process required by the Uruguay Round Agreements Act. They determined that these imports would likely lead to continuation or recurrence of material injury within a foreseeable time.
02.10.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to the Ohio State House voting to strip $1.3 million from Planned Parenthood in a bill that will now go to Governor Kasich to be signed. This legislation passed despite Planned Parenthood being cleared of any wrongdoing amidst allegations that it sold fetal tissue and a grand jury instead indicting anti-abortion activists on charges including tampering with a governmental record. Attorney General Mike DeWine’s investigation also concluded that no Ohio Planned Parenthood clinics sold fetal tissue. “These lawmakers should be ashamed of themselves. This is not funding that would go to administering abortions. Current state and federal law already bars taxpayer dollars from going to those services. Instead, these lawmakers are defunding much-needed infant mortality prevention for expectant mothers, women’s health exams, and life-saving cancer screenings – just to name a few. Ohio is currently ranked 45th nationally for infant mortality, making it one of the states with the highest infant death rates in the country. And this is the legislation Ohio Republicans have decided to promote and pass? It is clear that Ohio Republicans are yet again prioritizing politics over people. Today’s actions are a slap in the face and a harmful assault on the 56,939 men and women in Ohio who rely on Planned Parenthood for basic health care each and every day. I call on Governor Kasich to stand with Ohioans and veto this hateful and dangerous legislation,” said Congressman Ryan. Ohio House Bill 294 passed the Ohio House today by a vote of 59 – 32 and the Ohio Senate on January 27, 2016 by a vote of 22 – 8.
02.10.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today votes in favor of the Safe Drinking Water Act Improved Compliance Awareness Act (HR4470) – which he introduced with Congressmen Dan Kildee (D-MI) and Fred Upton (R-MI) last week. This bill is in response to safe drinking water emergencies like we are seeing in Sebring, Ohio and Flint, Michigan. It passed the House by a vote of 416 – 2. “Safety is, and always will be, my number one priority. It is outrageous that those in Sebring and Flint were knowingly and blatantly put in danger by the very people who were supposed to be protecting their wellbeing. I am proud of the swift and deliberate action of the House of Representatives to pass this important legislation. Clean drinking water is not a privilege but a right for all Americans. There is more to be done and I will do everything in my power to resolve the current crisis and ensure that we resolve and rectify the root of the problem,” said Congressman Ryan. This legislation will strengthen requirements to have the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) step in to notify the public when concentrations of lead in drinking water are above federal requirements. It requires the EPA to create a strategic plan for handling and improving information flow between water utilities, the states, the EPA, and affected consumers. It also ensures consumer notification when the corrosiveness of water being transported in a lead pipe could leak into public drinking water.
02.09.2016	Washington, D.C. – Representative Tim Ryan joins Congressional Colleagues today in introducing bipartisan, bicameral legislation to boost American manufacturing. This legislation would grow the manufacturing industry across the country by creating a permanent program that designates local regions as “Manufacturing Communities,” which would put them in the front of the line to receive federal economic development funding specifically for the purpose of investing in manufacturing. “Public-private partnerships are critical to a strong manufacturing sector and I am proud to support this legislation that would allow our communities to foster and grow these important relationships. Being from Northeast Ohio, I have seen firsthand how manufacturing is the back-bone of the American economy – supporting over 18.5 million jobs nationwide – and it is our duty as leaders to ensure that we not only protect these positions, but increase the opportunities for the next generation. Manufacturing can no longer be viewed as jobs of the past, but also the careers of future,” said Representative Tim Ryan (D-OH), Co-Founder and Co-Chairman of the bipartisan House Manufacturing Caucus. “New York has one of the greatest manufacturing traditions in the country, and we need to help ensure that our local communities have the chance to become leading national manufacturing hubs in the 21st Century,” said Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY). “This bipartisan legislation will help unlock millions of dollars in federal economic development funds for smart investments in high impact projects and leverage public-private partnerships to help create good-paying manufacturing jobs, jumpstart new businesses, and grow our economy for years to come.” “As home to many of our nation’s key manufacturing hubs, Illinois is poised to grow our skilled workforce and add to our legacy of innovation,” Senator Mark Kirk (R-IL) said. “By breaking down barriers to investment and better leveraging public-private investment, we can build on successes in Peoria and Chicago and open new doors for manufacturing communities like Rockford.” “Representing a state that is home to nearly 3,200 aviation and manufacturing businesses, I know firsthand the importance of investing in jobs and manufacturing right here in the United States,” Sen. Jerry Moran (R-KS) said. “This legislation would help stimulate the Kansas economy and create jobs for Kansans by empowering ‘manufacturing communities’ throughout the state to receive federal economic development funding. Investing in manufacturing will help make certain our state can continue to build quality products for export and stay competitive in the global marketplace.” “This bipartisan measure will put Connecticut at the front of the line for critical federal funding for focused direct investment in its thriving manufacturing sector. Our aerospace and shipbuilding industries are already fueling growth in high-skilled, high-paying jobs through Hartford’s Advance Manufacturing Communities Region, and this public-private partnership will spur more research, innovation and economic opportunity,” said Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT). “Manufacturing has enormous power to create jobs, foster innovation, and drive America’s continued economic recovery.” said Senator Chris Coons (D-DE). “Helping support manufacturing in Delaware and across the country has been a top priority since my first day in the Senate. That is why I’m pleased to support this important bill.” “In Rhode Island, manufacturing is written into our DNA. Good-paying manufacturing jobs helped build our middle class, and after so many years of seeing these jobs sent overseas, it's time we reclaim our identity as a leading center of American manufacturing and innovation,” said Representative David Cicilline (D-RI). “Today, I'm delighted to announce the introduction of the Make it in America Manufacturing Communities Act. This bill, which is being introduced with bipartisan support in both the House and Senate, will guarantee us an opportunity to strengthen our ability to compete for federal funding to grow manufacturing jobs, strengthen our local economy, and bring together leaders in business, government, non-profit, and education to develop new strategies for moving our state forward.” “Upstate New York has a proud history of being a manufacturing hub from its earliest days,” Representative Richard Hanna (R-NY) said. “Over the years that edge dwindled and we saw stalled growth, but now we are back on the upswing with new interests in nanotechnology and other tech-related manufacturing fields. We have seen public dollars enhance private investments to translate into more jobs and a better local economy. I support this bill because our communities in Central New York and the Southern Tier can not only compete to be manufacturing hubs, but with an extra push can transform themselves into globally competitive markets.” “We care about creating and keeping quality, family sustaining jobs right here in the United States. Its only right that we come together to develop common sense solutions that ensure our manufacturers stay competitive and help working families. We are proud to work across the aisle with Congressman Cicilline, as well as with our Senate colleagues Senators Gillibrand and Kirk, to support this bill,” said Representative Tom Reed (R-NY). “Manufacturing is the backbone of Central New York’s economy. In order to move our region’s economy forward, we must work to move manufacturing forward,” said Representative John Katko (R-NY4). “This bipartisan, bicameral legislation does just that by ensuring that manufacturers in our region are able to compete for federal funding for education, modernization, and skills training for our workforce. I thank Senator Gillibrand for her bipartisan efforts on this legislation.” “As the only city in Texas to receive the manufacturing community designation, San Antonio can benefit from this bill. San Antonio, with its edge in technology, business leaders, and universities, is a manufacturing leader. With manufacturing such an important part of the Bexar County economy, this bill builds on my effort to expand opportunity and train our workforce to meet the demand for high-skilled, high-paying jobs,” said Representative Lloyd Doggett (D-TX). To bolster more growth in the American manufacturing industry, this bill would create a permanent program to competitively award regions with the “Manufacturing Community” designation. This designation would give these communities preferred consideration when applying for up to $1.3 billion in currently available federal economic development funding for manufacturing. This legislation encourages a regionally-driven approach to strengthening the manufacturing industry. To compete for funding through this program and earn the “Manufacturing Communities” designation, communities would create regional partnerships with key stakeholders such as local and state economic development officials, local governments, manufacturers, labor organizations, and higher education or other training providers. In order to earn the Manufacturing Communities designation, communities would demonstrate the significance of manufacturing in their region and develop strategies to utilize their “Manufacturing Communities” designation in making investments in six areas: Workforce training and retraining; Advanced research; Infrastructure and site development; Supply chain support; Promotion of exports and foreign direct investment; and Operational improvement and capital access for manufacturers that supports energy or process efficiency, equipment or facility upgrades, the development of business incubators, among other activities. A current Administration program has launched 24 “Manufacturing Communities” around the country. This proposal will make this program permanent, allowing existing communities the opportunity to continue to implement their manufacturing strategies, and allowing new communities the opportunity to receive a designation. The Senate version of the bill, led by Senator Gillibrand, is titled the “Made in American Manufacturing Communities Act.” The House version of the same bill is led by U.S. Representative David Cicilline and titled the “Make it in America Manufacturing Communities Act.”
02.09.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan responded today to the President’s Fiscal Year 2017 Budget: Under President Obama’s leadership we’ve created 14 million new jobs, brought unemployment below 5 percent for the first time in 8 years, and expanded healthcare coverage to over 18 million Americans. While much progress has been made, we must keep our eye on the future. The President’s Budget demonstrates that he is committed to investing in a future where all Americans have a fair shot at economic prosperity, a clean environment, and a safe and secure world to raise our families. I would like to begin by applauding President Obama on his commitment to clean energy and American manufacturing by increasing clean energy research and development by 20 percent. This will be a huge windfall not only for our environment, but also for our economy in Ohio and across the country. Clean energy growth means an expansion in manufacturing, installation, maintenance, and a whole host of other fields. As the industry grows, it snowballs: lowering the cost of energy for everyone and creating even more jobs. Being from Northeast Ohio, we know that manufacturing is the backbone and the lifeblood of the American economy. The President recognizes this and with this Budget he doubles-down on his promise to revitalize American manufacturing. In response to the success seen at Youngstown’s America Makes, he invests more than $250 million to create and sustain manufacturing innovation institutes. Further, the Budget increases research and development funding, expands workforce training, and provides additional resources to help small manufacturers access the technology and expertise they need to expand their businesses. Every child born in this country should have the same opportunity to succeed; that’s the American Dream. I’m proud that the President’s Budget expands access to quality child care for hard-working American families, extending coverage to more than 1.1 million additional children under the age of four by 2026. These children cannot simply “pull themselves up by their bootstraps.” They were born into situations by no fault of their own, and it is our responsibility as leaders and citizens of this great nation to ensure that they are not left behind. As the Democratic Co-Chair of the Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus, I have seen firsthand the damage substance abuse inflicts upon Ohio and the United States. Fatal drug overdoses now exceed car crashes as the leading cause of accidental death in both our state and nation. I am heartened to see the President’s Budget include $1 billion in funding over the next two years to expand access to treatment for prescription drug and heroin abuse. Although I support the President’s Budget overall, I was disappointed to see a decrease from $300 million to $250 million in funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. This program is critical to the health and well-being of Ohioans by targeting harmful algal blooms in Lake Erie. I will use my position on the House Appropriations Committee to fight for full and adequate funding of this important program. Lastly, I look forward to working in the Appropriation Committee to pass common-sense reforms regarding cancer research, computer science education, and school nutrition funding.
02.08.2016	Ravenna, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan announces $498,282 in federal funds to Northeast Ohio Medical University (NEOMED) in Rootstown, Ohio. These funds were provided by the Economic Development Administration to establish a pharmaceutical-focused proof-of-concept center at NEOMED. This Center’s activities will focus on accelerating the commercialization of new pharmaceuticals to applicable markets, the creation of preclinical research protocols, and the development of a commercialization program to stimulate technology commercialization via start-up and technology licensing. The total project will cost $1,155,868. “Northeast Ohio Medical University is one of the premier medical education institutions in the United States and I’m proud to have it right here in our backyard. For more than 40 years NEOMED has provided cutting-edge training to medical professionals and researchers in Northeast Ohio. I’m happy to have had the opportunity to help support this funding and will continue to use my position in the U.S. House of Representatives to ensure that these types of federal resources are coming back home to our community,” said Congressman Tim Ryan.
02.04.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) joined Congressman Dan Kildee (D-MI) and Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI) today in introducing the Safe Drinking Water Act Improved Compliance Awareness Act in response to safe drinking water emergencies like we are seeing in Sebring, Ohio and Flint, Michigan. “Safety is, and always will be, my number one priority. It is outrageous that those in Sebring and Flint were knowingly and blatantly put in danger by the very people who were supposed to be protecting their wellbeing. This legislation is a step in the right direction to ensure that these horrible situations do not continue to happen in our communities. There is more to be done and I will do everything in my power to resolve the current crisis and ensure that we resolve and rectify the root of the problem,” said Congressman Ryan. This legislation will strengthen requirements to have the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) step in to notify the public when concentrations of lead in drinking water are above federal requirements. It requires the EPA to create a strategic plan for handling and improving information flow between water utilities, the states, the EPA, and affected consumers. It also ensures consumer notification when the corrosiveness of water being transported in a lead pipe could leech into public drinking water.
02.03.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Ryan made the following statement in response to the signing of the Trans-Pacific Partnership in New Zealand. Congress must still vote to approve this trade deal. “I am deeply disappointed by the signing of this job killing trade deal. All that you need to do is look at the shuttered factories and shattered communities across Ohio to see the devastating affect these free trade agreements have had all across our country. "We respect hard work in America, and it is our responsibility as leaders to push policies that increase opportunities for United States’ citizens to earn a good living. Unfortunately TPP doesn’t live up to those standards. We have tried this approach before. We were promised that NAFTA would grow wages and create jobs, but in the first decade after its inception, the United States lost one million jobs. I will not stand by while today’s leaders make the same mistakes as the past. I vow to continue to do everything in my power to ensure that this broken trade deal doesn’t become law.”
02.03.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13), Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Rob Portman (R-OH) today introduced companion resolutions in the Senate and House of Representatives recognizing the athletic achievement of the University of Mount Union’s 2015 football team, which won the 2015 National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division III Football Championship last year. Mount Union has won 12 Division III football championships and competed for the title 19 times. “Sports have been an important part of my life, and I understand the dedication, sweat, tears and hard work that is necessary to win games and create a consistently successful program,” said Ryan. “After winning their record 12th Division III NCAA Championship, there is no doubt that the Mount Union Purple Raiders are the perfect example of what success looks like on and off the football field. I am proud of each of these student-athletes for their hard work. The lessons learned here will serve them well for their entire lives.” “Ohioans take great pride in our football teams and this resolution will recognize the incredible achievement of Mount Union’s 2015 championship team,” said Brown. “For the twelfth time since 1993, the team has earned the NCAA’s Division III title. These student-athletes and their coaches are great example of the results that are possible with dedication and teamwork.” “Ohio is home to some of the best football teams in the country and we are proud to have Mount Union back on top of Division III football,” Portman stated. “Congrats to Coach Kehres and the Purple Raiders on capping their undefeated season with a championship.” Full text of the resolution is below. Congratulating the University of Mount Union football team for winning the 2015 NCAA Division III Football Championship. Whereas on December 18, 2015, the Mount Union Purple Raiders football team won their 12th NCAA Division III Football Championship with a 49-35 victory over the University of St. Thomas Tommies; Whereas the Mount Union Purple Raiders’ head coach led them to a national championship win in his third year, bringing the University of Mount Union’s total number of national championships in NCAA Division III football to 12; Whereas the Mount Union Purple Raiders’ victory broke the school’s own record for number of national titles held by one program in any division; Whereas the Mount Union Purple Raiders defeated last year’s national champion, the University of Wisconsin-Whitewater Warhawks, in this year’s semifinal 36-6 to advance to the national championship game; Whereas the Mount Union Purple Raiders’ running back, number 34, rushed for 220 yards and two touchdowns on 25 carries; Whereas the Mount Union Purple Raiders’ quarter back, number 11, threw for 201 yards and three touchdowns with zero interceptions; Whereas the Mount Union Purple Raiders’ wide receiver, number 3, caught five passes for 127 yards, including a 63 yard catch; Whereas the Mount Union Purple Raiders’ defensive back, number 21 – a freshman – recorded the game’s only interception; Whereas the Mount Union Purple Raiders’ finished the 2015 season with a record of 14 wins and 0 losses, and continued a 103 game regular-season winning streak that dates back to 2005; Whereas the Mount Union Purple Raiders’ won the Ohio Athletic Conference championship, their 24th consecutive title,’ and the program’s 27th conference title overall. Whereas the Mount Union Purple Raiders’ junior offensive lineman, number 52, was the 2015 Division III Rimington Award winner, given to the Most Outstanding Center in NCAA Division III College Football; Whereas the Mount Union Purple Raiders’ senior defensive lineman, number 90, was named to the American Football Coaches Association Division III All-American team. Whereas the Mount Union Purple Raiders’ senior linebacker, and three-time team captain, number 4, was awarded the NCAA Elite 90 Award, for the third straight year, as well as named the Academic All-American of the Year for Division III Football by the College Sports Information Directors of America; Whereas the Mount Union University Purple Raiders’ senior safety, number 31, was named one of 10 finalists for the Gagliardi Trophy, given to the top all-around football player in NCAA Division III football; Whereas The University of Mount Union President and director of athletics have fostered a continuing tradition of athletic and academic excellence at the institution; Whereas The University of Mount Union has proven to be a perennial championship contender in Division III National Collegiate Athletic Association football; and Whereas The University of Mount Union Marching Band, cheerleaders, students, faculty, alumni, and fans have supported the football team through a season filled with triumph; Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate— (1) congratulates The University of Mount Union Purple Raiders football team for winning the 2015 Division III College Football Playoff national championship; (2) recognizes the players, coaches, staff, and fans whose hard work led to the championship; and (3) respectfully requests that the Secretary of the Senate prepare an official copy of this resolution for presentation to— (A) the President of The University of Mount Union; (B) the director of athletics at The University of Mount Union; and (C) the head coach of The University of Mount Union football team.
01.27.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement after Republicans in the Ohio State Senate passed legislation stripping $1.3 million from Planned Parenthood. This legislation was passed despite a grand jury this week clearing Planned Parenthood of any wrongdoing in allegations of the illegal selling of fetal tissue – and instead indicted anti-abortion activists on charges including tampering with a governmental record. “It is no secret that this legislation was motivated by allegations of Planned Parenthood selling fetal tissue – allegations that were completely dismissed by a grand jury just two days ago. Despite Attorney General Mike DeWine’s best efforts to dig up dirt on Ohio Planned Parenthood, his politically-motivated investigation concluded that no Ohio clinics sold fetal tissue. Ohio lawmakers ignored these findings and instead have passed legislation that will slash $1.3 million from Planned Parenthood. “This is not funding that would go to administering abortions. Current state and federal law tax dollars already bar tax dollars from going to those services. Instead these lawmakers are defunding much needed infant mortality prevention for new mothers, women’s health exams and lifesaving cancer screenings – to name just a few. Ohio is currently ranked 45th nationally for infant mortality, making it one of the states with the highest infant mortality rate in the country. And this is the legislation Ohio Republicans have decided to promote and pass? It is clear, Ohio Republican are yet again prioritizing politics over people. Today’s actions are a slap in the face and a harmful assault on the 56,939 men and women in Ohio who rely on Planned Parenthood each and every day. They should be ashamed of themselves.” Ohio House Bill 294 was passed the Ohio Senate today by a vote of 22 – 8.
01.20.2016	Akron, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan today applauds the inclusion of language from his legislation, the Salad Bar in Schools Expansion Act, in the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry’s markup of the bipartisan reauthorization of the Child Nutrition Act. Congressman Tim Ryan introduced the Salad Bar in Schools Expansion Act in the House of Representatives in June of 2015.“With more than 30 million children eating school meals each day and one-third of American children overweight or obese – putting them at risk for heart disease, Type 2 diabetes and other chronic diseases – we have the opportunity and the responsibility to do more. As a parent, I understand the importance of teaching our children how to eat healthier, and it is our responsibility to help reverse this dangerous trend. Salad bars have proven to be an effective and affordable way to make school lunch more nutritious. I want to thank Chairman Roberts and Ranking Member Stabenow for their leadership on this bipartisan bill, and for their understanding the importance of promoting healthier lunch options for our children.” The Senate Improving Child Nutrition Integrity and Access Act of 2016 would require the Secretary of Agriculture to ensure that school food authorities develop and implement a plan to encourage the use of salad bars and provide training and technical assistance to eligible entities to assist in establishing salad bars in schools. The five year bill would reauthorize all federal children nutrition programs, including School Breakfast, National School Lunch, Child and Adult Care food, Summer Food Service, the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Programs, and WIC. These programs provide food and nutritional aid to millions of low-income children and pregnant women. More than 31 million children participate in the National School Lunch Program and over 11 million participate in the School Breakfast Program. Congressman Ryan’s Salad Bar in Schools Expansion Act has been endorsed by the United Fresh Produce Association, Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, the American Heart Association, The Ohio State University, Ohio Produce Growers and Marketing Association, the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, Real Food for Kids, U.S. Apple Association, National Potato Council, National Watermelon Association, the Western Growers, California Fresh Fruit Association, Florida Fruit and Vegetable Association, Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Grower-Shipper Association of Central California, New York Apple Association, Texas Citrus Mutual, Texas International Produce Association, and the Texas Vegetable Association.
01.16.2016	Washington, DC — Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today after Iran announced the release of five Americans, four of them in exchange for Iranians imprisoned or charged in the United States: Today, we look forward to five brave Americans finally coming home. For too long these Americans have been separated from their friends, families and loved ones, and I am forever grateful that this nightmare is finally being brought to an end. For the second time this week, we have seen American diplomacy succeed, bringing peaceful resolutions to conflicts that only a few short years ago could have resulted in armed intervention. On Wednesday, the United States successfully negotiated the release of ten Navy sailors who were detained by Iran overnight. Neither of these conflicts could have been resolved without the United States leading the way and bringing China, Russia, Iran and the international community to the table to achieve the landmark Iran Nuclear Agreement, and the willingness and patience to allow international diplomacy to succeed. We urge Iran to continue to cooperate with the United States to determine the whereabouts of missing American Robert Levinson, who went missing in Iran in 2007.
01.12.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement tonight after attending the State of the Union address: Tonight we watched President Obama deliver his eighth and final State of the Union address and heard his vision for a brighter and more prosperous future for the United States of America. Every day I hear from my constituents about their frustration with the federal government and their requests for help to make their lives easier. There is no doubt that we still have work to do, and this speech is a needed reminder to Congress that in order to move our country forward, we must come together. The United States should be the definition of a successful democracy and we have a responsibility to live up to that role both at home and abroad. There is no doubt that our country has come a long way since President Obama looked out over the National Mall and took the presidential oath of office. We were reminded tonight of where our country was when President Obama delivered his first address – in the midst of the worst financial crisis in recent history, losing almost 820,000 private-sector jobs during President Bush’s last month in office. But thanks to President Obama’s leadership, we have seen 70 consecutive months of job creation, adding 14 million new jobs to the American economy and cutting unemployment to 5%. We heard President Obama boldly and clearly lay out his plan for how we can move this great nation forward. But in today’s connected world, we understand that all countries’ economies are interdependent, and we need remain vigilant to protect these economic gains and ensure that all Americans are financially secure. Every night we turn on our TV, listen to the radio, or read the news we are confronted by a barrage of stories about the fear of ongoing global terror. The images and stories of San Bernardino, Paris, Lebanon, and Turkey are fresh in our minds. Tonight the President reassured us that the United States has the strongest military in the world and our nation’s number one priority is to keep our country safe. I stand with President Obama and support our military's comprehensive and evolving strategy to combat and destroy ISIS and ensure that we are safe. Furthermore, I applaud President Obama for directly confronting the all too familiar narrative being played out every night on television that America is no longer ‘great’. This doom and gloom ethos may help win political points among some, but to focus on such negativity is disingenuous and does nothing but distract from the truly important problems facing us today. America is, in fact, still great and we remain a leader on the world stage. Just this year, the United States led the way to help eradicate Ebola in Africa; ended 53 years of failed foreign policy in Cuba; brokered an unprecedented climate agreement among 195 countries in Paris; and brought China, Russia and Iran to the table to achieve a landmark nuclear agreement. President Obama correctly asserted that we are living in a ‘time of extraordinary change.’ Domestic and global events are developing faster than ever before, and in this new era of technology the way we live, work, and communicate would be unrecognizable to people even a generation ago. In the midst of all this change, the year ahead, or even the next five, might look scary, but despite any lingering uncertainty there is little doubt in my mind that a better future for our families and our nation is within reach. What we need is the courage and the clarity of thought that the present demands of us to make the right choices for the American people. I look forward to working with the President and my colleagues in Congress to make that future a reality in the year ahead.
01.11.2016	Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement on the new Dietary Guidelines for Americans, unveiled today by the U.S. Departments of Agriculture and Health and Human Services. These guidelines are updated every five years to make recommendations about the components of a healthy and nutritionally adequate diet to help promote health and prevent chronic disease for current and future generations. “Seven out of ten deaths among Americans each year are from chronic diseases that can be prevented and treated through proper nutrition and other lifestyle changes. Our system is focused on managing disease, when we should be totally committed to preventing it. We have an obesity rate of 35% in the United States and half of our population will soon either have diabetes or pre diabetes. We desperately need a change. Our health care system, both private as well as Medicare and Medicaid, can not sustain this. Our current trends will bankrupt our country. "So, I applaud the Administration for releasing the new Dietary Guidelines and making much needed improvements for how our nation looks at nutrition as the main way to prevent sickness from happening in the first place. For the first time, these guidelines capped the amount of sugar Americans should consume – and reinforced that we need to reduce the amount of sodium and saturated fats in our diet. “On average Americans consume 70 pounds of sugar a year and 500 more calories a day than we did in the 1970s. It is pretty clear that this is the cause of many of our problems. We cannot continue down this road. The direct medical costs associated with obesity in 2008 totaled $147 billion and diabetes in 2007 totaled $116 billion. These epidemics are shortening lives, and costing billions while doing so. That is why I am glad these guidelines emphasize the importance of fruits and vegetables. As sponsor of the Salad Bar in Schools Extension Act, I understand the need to make healthy foods more accessible for our children. “While the new Dietary Guidelines make great strides towards improving our nation’s nutrition standards, I believe they fall short on a number of fronts. I fought to include limits on red and processed meat consumption, but these science based recommendations were ultimately watered down. We must work together to make sure the information we are providing to the American people helps make our country healthier and improve upon these guidelines. The future financial and economic health of our country is directly connected to the health of our people."
12.22.2015	Akron, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan is pleased to announce the certification petition for Trade Adjustment Assistance for Akron JP Morgan Chase & Company’s Anti-Money Laundering analysts whose positions were outsourced to a foreign country. Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) will assist workers in their search for re-employment through income support, training, assistance with healthcare premium costs, employment and case management services, and may include job search and relocation allowances. “Unfair trade laws are impacting men and women throughout our region, and this goes to show that they are not just negatively affecting our manufacturing industry, but also our financial institutions. As the holiday season approaches and Congress continues to negotiate the Trans-Pacific Partnership, we must make sure that we are protecting workers from all industries from unfair trade laws,” said Congressman Ryan. “I’m pleased that JP Morgan Chase employees in our community who lost their jobs through no fault of their own will have the resources and services they need to get back on their feet. I stand ready to do everything in my power to assist them during this difficult transition. The Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) Program is a federal program that assists US workers who have lost their jobs as a result of foreign trade. The program provides trade-affected workers with opportunities to obtain the skills, resources, and support they need to become reemployed. For example, Trade Readjustment Allowances will provide income support while workers are participating in full-time training, which may include classroom and/or on the-job training, customized training, post-secondary education, prerequisite education or coursework and remedial education. The cost of training is paid to the training provider by the State with TAA Program funds. In addition, the Health Care Tax Credit makes health insurance more affordable for trade-affected workers by paying 72.5% of health insurance premiums.
12.18.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan worked with Congressional colleagues and members of the Ohio and Michigan delegations to secure the inclusion of funding to remove blighted, vacant homes in Ohio and in those states affected the most by the recession and foreclosure crisis. “Whether it is in Youngstown or Akron, Cleveland or Toledo our communities are still recovering from the destruction and devastation of the housing crisis. I am proud that I was able to help secure these funds that will reinvigorate the neighborhoods that have been hit hardest by long-term blight and decay – creating healthier, more economically competitive and sustainable communities across our state,” said Congressman Ryan. Congressman Ryan is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and strongly supported this inclusion throughout the negotiation process and in the final version of the Fiscal Year 2016 government funding bill. In 2015, $13 million was made available from the U.S. Treasury’s Hardest Hit Fund for 12 Ohio land banks – including Mahoning, Trumbull, and Stark Counties which will each receive $500,000. In 2014, $60 million was made available from the U.S. Treasury’s Hardest Hit Fund for Ohio – including $4,266,250 for Mahoning County, $3,221,25 for Trumbull Country, and $2,000,000 for Summit County.
12.17.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement after voting in favor of the Fiscal Year 2016 Tax Extenders legislation: “I am proud to support this significant bipartisan agreement that cuts taxes for our small businesses, which will help grow our economy. Whether it's businesses at the Youngstown Business Incubator, the Akron Accelerator or local manufacturers, these tax cuts will help create jobs. This legislation creates a permanent extension of the research and development tax credit, which will now allow small businesses and startup companies to be able to reap the benefits of this program that was once only available to big business. These changes will be a major boon to innovation and entrepreneurship in the United States of America. Small and startup businesses need every dollar to build and expand their companies, and this provision will go a long way towards doing just that, while creating jobs in our community. “This legislation will help families by encouraging higher education and permanently extending the American Opportunity Tax Credit, which entitles taxpayers to receive a $2,500 credit to offset the cost of college tuition. College should be a viable option for each and every student in Ohio and across the nation and while much still needs to be done to rein in the cost of a college education, I am pleased that this tax benefit will make that dream a little easier to attain. “As the husband of an elementary school teacher, I know firsthand how much educators put into their classrooms each and every year to ensure that their students get the education they deserve. That is why I applaud the permanent extension of the Educator Tax Deduction, which helps teachers pay their out-of-pocket expenses made on classroom supplies and ongoing professional development. I am happy we are going to make sure these sacrifices are recognized.” “I am proud to support this legislation that will keep 162,000 Ohio children out of poverty and help 407,000 Ohio families make ends meet. This legislation permanently extends the Child Tax Credit and the Earned Income Tax Credit, two of the strongest tools we have to make sure the basic needs of hardworking American families are met." This legislation is supported by Ohio Association of Foodbanks, Children’s Defense Fund-Ohio, Policy Matters Ohio, ProgressOhio, Western Reserve Land Conservancy, National Educators Association, American Federation of Teachers, National Women’s Law Center.
12.16.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan announces local funding in the FY 2016 government funding bill, which included: $12.7 million for area bases; $10 million for an Ohio-based military additive manufacturing program; and almost $5 million for local reservoirs. Congressman Ryan is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and strongly supported these inclusions throughout the committee markup process and in the final version of the FY2016 government funding bill unveiled today. This legislation must still pass the House of Representatives and Senate and be signed by the President. $12.7 Million for Area Bases The FY 2016 government funding bill included $12.7 million for area military bases: $9.4 million to the Youngstown Air Reserve Station (YARS) to upgrade their Indoor Firing Range and $3.3 million to the Ravenna Joint Military Training Center for a Modified Record Fire Range. “I am pleased to have helped secure funding for the Youngstown Air Reserve Station and Camp Ravenna in the FY2016 funding bill. This money gives our Airmen and Soldiers the resources and training facilities they need to remain combat-ready and complete their missions. Each and every day, the men and women stationed in Youngstown and Camp Ravenna go to work to protect and serve our country, and it is our job to give them the tools they need to succeed. I am proud to have supported our men and women in uniform and will continue to work to ensure these vital funds get to YARS and Camp Ravenna,” said Congressman Ryan. $10 Million for Youngstown-Dayton Military Additive Manufacturing Initiative The FY 2016 government funding bill includes $10 million in funding that was secured by Congressman Ryan to continue an additive manufacturing innovation research program based at the Air Force Research Lab at Wright Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio. The program—begun with an original $10 million of funding secured by Congressman Ryan in last year’s (FY 2015) defense spending bill--equips the United States Air Force with the technology and expertise to use 3D printing and other emerging manufacturing techniques to fabricate low-volume replacement parts for weapons systems at a lower cost than can be achieved through current defense procurement processes. The Air Force Research Lab, working with Youngstown-based America Makes, awarded the FY 2015 funding to a research partnership between Youngstown State University and University of Dayton Research Institute. “I am proud to have secured funding for this important research partnership that will hopefully build upon last year’s investment. Ultimately this funding will help grow high-paying manufacturing jobs in Ohio and across the United States while reducing costs for the Department of Defense. Additive manufacturing is transforming every sector of our national economy and this program further positions Ohio, which already has a successful additive manufacturing hub in Youngstown, as a leader in this arena,” said Congressman Ryan. $5 Million for Local Reservoirs The FY2016 government funding bill included almost $5 million in funding for local reservoirs, appropriating $2.4 million for Lake Berlin, $1.4 million for Mosquito Creek Lake, and $1.2 million for Michael J. Kirwan Dam and Reservoir. These lakes and reservoirs protect our communities from flooding and provide recreational areas for our residents to enjoy. This vital funding will ensure that our local bodies of water have the maintenance and updates they need,” said Congressman Ryan. Michael J. Kirwan Dam & Reservoir Michael J. Kirwan Dam and Reservoir is one of the 16 flood control projects in the Pittsburgh district. The project provides flood protection of the Mahoning River Valley and for the Beaver and Upper Ohio Rivers. Kirwan has the capability to store the equivalent run-off of 18.30 inches of precipitation from its 80.5 square mile drainage area. The dam is located on the West Branch of the Mahoning river about 12.0 miles above the junction of the branch and the Mahoning river at newton falls, OH. The reservoir is located entirely within Portage County, OH. Appropriated funds will be used to perform operation and maintenance of the dam structure as well as continue activities related to reservoir management operations comprising water management, environmental stewardship, and operation and maintenance of public use facilities. Funds will be further used for repairs to deteriorating recreation facilities. This project supports more than 60 jobs, and has prevented more than $764 million in damage since its completion in 1965. The estimated construction cost of $20 million appears small when compared to these savings. Mosquito Creek Lake Mosquito Creek Lake is a multi-purpose reservoir. This project provides flood protection for the Mahoning River Valley as well as the Beaver and upper Ohio Rivers. Mosquito has the capability to store the equivalent run-off of 29 inches of precipitation from its 97 square mile damage area. The dam is on Mosquito Creek, 12.6 miles upstream from its junction with the Mahoning Rover at Niles, Ohio. The reservoir is located entirely in Trumbull County, Ohio. A feature unique to Mosquito Creek Lake is its use of an uncontrolled natural spillway. The natural spillway is located at the upper end of the lake in a low-lying reach of the Mosquito Creek-Grand River Divide. The elevation of the spillway at the point of divide is such that if an impoundment of flood waters should fill the lake, to an elevation of 904 feet above sea level, the southerly outflow of the lake would be reserved. The outflow would then be discharged through the natural spillway into a tributary of the Grand River which flows north into Lake Erie. Appropriation funds will be used to perform operation and maintenance of the dam structure as well as continue activities related to reservoir management operations comprising water management, environmental stewardship, and operation and maintenance of public use facilities. Funds will be further used for repairs to deteriorating recreation facilities. This project supports more than 160 jobs, and has prevented more than $419 million in damage since its competition in 1944. Mosquito Creek Lake also stores water and releases it downstream during the dry periods to improve water quality and quantity for domestic and industrial use, recreation, esthetics, and aquatic life. Berlin Lake Berlin Lake is a multipurpose reservoir. The project provides flood protection for the Mahoning River Valley as well as for the Beaver and Upper Ohio Rivers. The project has the capability to store the equivalent run-off of 6.9 inches of precipitation from its 249 square mile drainage area. The dam is located on the Mahoning River in Mahoning and Portage Counties, Ohio, about 10 miles upstream from Milton Dam (Non-Federal Project) about 35 miles upstream from Warren, Ohio. The lake is located in Mahoning, Portage, and Stark Counties. Berlin Lake is home to the largest campground in the Pittsburgh District with more than 348 campsites, and it has four boat launch ramps. Visitors can further enjoy hiking trials, picnic areas, electrical hookups, restrooms and showers. Appropriated funds will be used to perform operation and maintenance of the dam structure as well as continue activities related to reservoir management operations comprising water management, environmental stewardship, and operation and maintenance of public use facilities. Funds will be further used for repairs to deteriorating recreation facilities. This project supports more than 300 jobs, and has prevented over $1.7 billion in damage since its completion in 1943. The lake serves as a water supply for the Mahoning Valley Sanitary District.
12.15.2015	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan is pleased to announce the certification petition for Trade Adjustment Assistance for laid-off workers at Parker Hannifin Corporation who engaged in activities related to the production of hydraulic gear pumps. Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) will assist workers in their search for re-employment through income support, training, assistance with healthcare premium costs, employment and case management services, and may include job search and relocation allowances. “As more and more jobs are moving overseas due to unfair playing fields, we must make it a priority to make sure that hardworking Americans are given the resources necessary to succeed in this global economy. I am pleased that Parker Hannifin employees will now be able to access the services they need to help them land on their feet. Through no fault of their own, these men and women have found themselves in a dire situation, and I am committed to continue to work with the company, union officials and employees to help them through this difficult transition,” said Congressman Ryan. The Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) Program is a federal program that assists US workers who have lost their jobs as a result of foreign trade. The program provides trade-affected workers with opportunities to obtain the skills, resources, and support they need to become reemployed. For example, Trade Readjustment Allowances will provide income support while workers are participating in full-time training, which may include classroom and/or on the-job training, customized training, post-secondary education, prerequisite education or coursework and remedial education. The cost of training is paid to the training provider by the State with TAA Program funds. In addition, the Health Care Tax Credit makes health insurance more affordable for trade-affected workers by paying 72.5% of health insurance premiums.
12.15.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) was joined today by Senators Sherrod Brown (OH), Senator Rob Portman (OH), Congressman Bill Johnson (OH-6) and Congressman Dave Joyce (OH-14) in urging the United States Air Force to replace the Youngstown Air Reserve Station’s (YARS) 910th Airlift Wing’s current fleet of C-130H aircraft with new C-130J aircrafts to ensure that the 910th’s Department of Defense (DoD)-mandated specialized aerial spray mission continues safely and without interruption. “I am proud to support the important mission and outstand work being done at the Youngstown Ari Reserve Station – and I will continue to do everything in my power to ensure that long term investments are being made at YARS. Each and every day, the men and women stationed in Youngstown put their lives on the line for our safety and it is our job to give them the resources they need,” said Congressman Ryan. “Bringing in C-130Js to modernize the C-130 fleet at YARS will help strengthen our lines of defense and maintain jobs in Mahoning County,” said Senator Brown. “This fleet carries out critical emergency missions and keeps our nation secure. It’s time to replace these aircraft to meet the unique mission at YARS.” “The Youngstown Air Reserve Station has become a model for other Air Reserve Stations throughout the country, but if we want to maintain this level of high performance, we must upgrade the aircraft at the base,” Portman stated. “I am proud of my strong record of support for C-130 modernization and will continue to work to ensure they have the capabilities needed to carry out their critically important operations,” said Senator Portman. “It is critically important that we maintain the C-130 missions carried out by the Ohio Air National Guard units across Ohio. The Youngstown Air Reserve Station (YARS), in particular, plays an important role in America’s national security capability, and provides jobs vital to the Mahoning Valley. I’ll continue working with my Ohio colleagues to do everything in our power to make sure the YARS has the necessary resources to continue carrying out its important missions,” said Congressman Johnson. “It is now, more than ever, critical that we provide our military with the resources they need to protect us and defend our country. This starts with modernizing the C-130 by making sure the men and women stationed at YARS have the equipment and tools necessary to respond to emergencies that arise,” said Congressman Joyce. Full Letter can be found below: December 7, 2015 Lt Gen James Jackson Headquarters USAF/RE 1150 Air Force Pentagon Washington, DC 20330 Dear Lt Gen Jackson: We urge you to replace the Youngstown Air Reserve Station’s 910th Airlift Wing’s current fleet of C-130H aircraft with a minimum of ten C-130J aircraft to ensure that the 910th’s Department of Defense (DoD)-mandated specialized aerial spray mission continues safely and without interruption. The Fiscal Year 2016 House of Representatives’ Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense Report includes language regarding the Air Force Reserve’s specialized missions, specifically that: “The Committee encourages the Chief of the Air Force Reserve to review the requirements to ensure that specialized units are allocated sufficient training hours to successfully perform both their specialized and tactical missions and are allocated equipment upgrades necessary to address safety concerns associated with these missions. The Committee also supports efforts to build partnerships between units performing specialized missions and other government agencies when practical.” The current number of eight C-130H aircraft jeopardizes the 910th’s capability to effectively complete overseas tactical airlift missions and domestic aerial spray operations simultaneously. To highlight the dilemma: if, in the immediate future, the 910th were tasked to deploy four aircraft to support an overseas area of responsibility, they would only be able to support a one-ship spray mission in the United States. As we are sure you’re aware, within the last decade, the 910th has deployed a three C-130H aircraft package in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in 2005 and again in the aftermath of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in 2010 to provide domestic emergency aerial spray capability. Recapitalizing the 910th’s fleet of eight C-130H aircraft with ten C-130J aircraft would enable the wing to conduct both the overseas tactical airlift missions and the homeland aerial spray missions. The unique aerial spray mission could also be in jeopardy after year 2020 due to several factors. The 910th’s airplanes require more maintenance due to the wear and tear cause by flying the specialized mission at low altitudes. In addition, an Operational Supplement, published 17 July 2015, significantly reduced the interval between Aircraft Structural Integrity Program (ASIP) inspections based on Effective Flying Hour (EFH) calculations. The reduction in EFH interval will lead to an increase of approximately double the inspection time spent per aircraft. The additional hurdle to ensure that the current C-130H fleet is airworthy, is the much needed Communication Navigation Surveillance/Air Traffic Management (CNS/ATM) requirements required by the Federal Aviation Administration and the International Civil Aviation Organization. As we continue to put more flight hours on the current fleet of aging C-130H aircraft, the inspection interval will continue to shorten, increasing the maintenance time and decreasing mission readiness. The C-130J models have a minimum crew size of three versus the legacy C-130H models’ crew of five, which would mean immediate personnel savings to operate the system, in addition to possible maintenance hours. For these reasons, we request your consideration for recapitalization of the 910th Airlift Wing’s current fleet of C-130Hs with C-130Js at the soonest possible time, to ensure their continued and safe support of DoD’s only aerial spray mission. Thank you for your consideration of our request. We look forward to working with you in this endeavor. Sincerely, Sherrod Brown United States Senator Rob Portman United States Senator Tim Ryan Member of Congress Bill Johnson Member of Congress David Joyce Member of CongressWashington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) was joined today by Senators Sherrod Brown (OH), Senator Rob Portman (OH), Congressman Bill Johnson (OH-6) and Congressman Dave Joyce (OH-14) in urging the United States Air Force to replace the Youngstown Air Reserve Station’s (YARS) 910th Airlift Wing’s current fleet of C-130H aircraft with new C-130J aircrafts to ensure that the 910th’s Department of Defense (DoD)-mandated specialized aerial spray mission continues safely and without interruption. “I am proud to support the important mission and outstand work being done at the Youngstown Ari Reserve Station – and I will continue to do everything in my power to ensure that long term investments are being made at YARS. Each and every day, the men and women stationed in Youngstown put their lives on the line for our safety and it is our job to give them the resources they need,” said Congressman Ryan. “Bringing in C-130Js to modernize the C-130 fleet at YARS will help strengthen our lines of defense and maintain jobs in Mahoning County,” said Senator Brown. “This fleet carries out critical emergency missions and keeps our nation secure. It’s time to replace these aircraft to meet the unique mission at YARS.” “The Youngstown Air Reserve Station has become a model for other Air Reserve Stations throughout the country, but if we want to maintain this level of high performance, we must upgrade the aircraft at the base,” Portman stated. “I am proud of my strong record of support for C-130 modernization and will continue to work to ensure they have the capabilities needed to carry out their critically important operations,” said Senator Portman. “It is critically important that we maintain the C-130 missions carried out by the Ohio Air National Guard units across Ohio. The Youngstown Air Reserve Station (YARS), in particular, plays an important role in America’s national security capability, and provides jobs vital to the Mahoning Valley. I’ll continue working with my Ohio colleagues to do everything in our power to make sure the YARS has the necessary resources to continue carrying out its important missions,” said Congressman Johnson. “It is now, more than ever, critical that we provide our military with the resources they need to protect us and defend our country. This starts with modernizing the C-130 by making sure the men and women stationed at YARS have the equipment and tools necessary to respond to emergencies that arise,” said Congressman Joyce. Full Letter can be found below: December 7, 2015 Lt Gen James Jackson Headquarters USAF/RE 1150 Air Force Pentagon Washington, DC 20330 Dear Lt Gen Jackson: We urge you to replace the Youngstown Air Reserve Station’s 910th Airlift Wing’s current fleet of C-130H aircraft with a minimum of ten C-130J aircraft to ensure that the 910th’s Department of Defense (DoD)-mandated specialized aerial spray mission continues safely and without interruption. The Fiscal Year 2016 House of Representatives’ Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense Report includes language regarding the Air Force Reserve’s specialized missions, specifically that: “The Committee encourages the Chief of the Air Force Reserve to review the requirements to ensure that specialized units are allocated sufficient training hours to successfully perform both their specialized and tactical missions and are allocated equipment upgrades necessary to address safety concerns associated with these missions. The Committee also supports efforts to build partnerships between units performing specialized missions and other government agencies when practical.” The current number of eight C-130H aircraft jeopardizes the 910th’s capability to effectively complete overseas tactical airlift missions and domestic aerial spray operations simultaneously. To highlight the dilemma: if, in the immediate future, the 910th were tasked to deploy four aircraft to support an overseas area of responsibility, they would only be able to support a one-ship spray mission in the United States. As we are sure you’re aware, within the last decade, the 910th has deployed a three C-130H aircraft package in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in 2005 and again in the aftermath of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in 2010 to provide domestic emergency aerial spray capability. Recapitalizing the 910th’s fleet of eight C-130H aircraft with ten C-130J aircraft would enable the wing to conduct both the overseas tactical airlift missions and the homeland aerial spray missions. The unique aerial spray mission could also be in jeopardy after year 2020 due to several factors. The 910th’s airplanes require more maintenance due to the wear and tear cause by flying the specialized mission at low altitudes. In addition, an Operational Supplement, published 17 July 2015, significantly reduced the interval between Aircraft Structural Integrity Program (ASIP) inspections based on Effective Flying Hour (EFH) calculations. The reduction in EFH interval will lead to an increase of approximately double the inspection time spent per aircraft. The additional hurdle to ensure that the current C-130H fleet is airworthy, is the much needed Communication Navigation Surveillance/Air Traffic Management (CNS/ATM) requirements required by the Federal Aviation Administration and the International Civil Aviation Organization. As we continue to put more flight hours on the current fleet of aging C-130H aircraft, the inspection interval will continue to shorten, increasing the maintenance time and decreasing mission readiness. The C-130J models have a minimum crew size of three versus the legacy C-130H models’ crew of five, which would mean immediate personnel savings to operate the system, in addition to possible maintenance hours. For these reasons, we request your consideration for recapitalization of the 910th Airlift Wing’s current fleet of C-130Hs with C-130Js at the soonest possible time, to ensure their continued and safe support of DoD’s only aerial spray mission. Thank you for your consideration of our request. We look forward to working with you in this endeavor. Sincerely, Sherrod Brown United States Senator Rob Portman United States Senator Tim Ryan Member of Congress Bill Johnson Member of Congress David Joyce Member of Congress
12.08.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today signed Congressman Mike Thompson’s discharge petition on the Denying Firearms and Explosives to Dangerous Terrorist Act, introduced by Congressman Peter King (R-NY) – a discharge petition is a legislation procedure that can force a vote on legislation once it has an absolute majority (218 signatures): "Since Paris, and now San Bernadino, we continue to diligently reevaluate each and every aspect of our government that can possibly provide an opening for terrorists who want to bring fear and death to our country. As the global community mourns and recovers from these terrible tragedies, we have an obligation to cast aside our political party and interest group pressure. And do the right thing. “The fact is that any suspected terrorist on the FBI terror watch list is able to purchase firearms in the United States. This same person is not allowed on an airplane, but can buy a gun. And House Republican leadership, just today, repeatedly voted against closing this loophole to improve the safety of our communities. In what world is this rational? That is a very extreme position regardless of which political party you identify with and it provides a huge opportunity for terrorists to easily get a gun. “I sit on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, where I get classified briefings about ongoing terrorist threats around the world and these threats are real. We need to set aside the politics and do what is best for the American people. This normal Washington food fight will not keep our people safe. It's time for members to recognize the severity of this threat and do what is right regardless of who may be upset by their decision,” said Congressman Ryan. Congressman Ryan also voted in favor of the bipartisan, White House supported, Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorism Travel Prevention Act (H.R. 158). This legislation was designed to address vulnerabilities in the current Visa Waiver Program (VWP), which allows nationals from 38 countries (30 European) to enter the United States for business or pleasure for up to 90 days without first obtaining a visa from a U.S. embassy. “As an elected official and member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, it is my highest responsibility to ensure the safety and security of the American people. I take this responsibility seriously, and that is why I voted to strengthen our border to ensure that there are no gaps in our security,” said Congressman Ryan. This legislation: Requires travelers from VWP countries to have an electronic passport – which are fraud resistant and contains relevant biographic and biometric information. Requires VWP countries to report lost or stolen passports to the U.S. within 24 hours. Requires nationals of VWP countries who have traveled to Iraq, Syria, designated state sponsors of terrorism (Iran and Sudan), or other “countries or areas of concern” ineligible to travel to the U.S. under the VWP – instead they will be required to obtain a visa as, as other visitors from non-VWP countries have to do, including: an in-person interview with U.S. Department of State Consular official and undergo more extensive security screening, including fingerprint security screening. Requires the Secretary of Homeland Security and Director of National Intelligence to designate any other “countries or areas of concern” within 60 days. Improves the current Electronic System for Travel Authorization. Requires the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to submit a report to Congress that asses the threat to U.S. national security of each country in the Visa Waiver Program. Requires DHS to submit an annual report to Congress detailing the number of individuals in VWP countries denied admission to the U.S. as a visitor or whose eligibility is revoked, as well as the number denied for being considered a national security threat. You can find more information on H.R. 158 here: https://homeland.house.gov/visa-waiver-program/
12.07.2015	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan today urged the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Ohio House Insurance Committee to reconsider its attempts to limit unemployment benefits. Ohio House Bill 394 will have an upsetting impact on thousands of workers and members of their families at a time when they need help the most. You can view a PDF copy of the letter here and the full text can be found below: Dear Chairman Hackett and Ranking Member Bishoff: I am writing to urge the Ohio legislature to reconsider its attempt to limit unemployment benefits, a lifeline for Ohio workers who face temporary uncertainties in employment. This bill will have an upsetting impact on thousands of workers and members of their families at a time when they need help the most. Like many of you and your colleagues, I have strived to improve Ohio’s economy and defend those programs that help people transitioning from one job to the next. For example, I have worked closely with my Republican and Democratic colleagues to help grow and expand the energy sector in Ohio by promoting domestic oil production by increasing oil exports and strengthening our natural gas and natural gas powered vehicles industries. But after years of strong employment gains that outpaced private sector growth, we are now seeing a softening in the oil and gas sector, along with steel and manufacturing, due to extremely low oil prices. Unfortunately this decrease in revenue is leading to layoffs and unemployment. It is critical that we maintain a robust safety net for individuals who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own. Furthermore, keeping unemployment benefits steady will mitigate the indirect effects of a downturn by keeping more money in the pockets of consumers most likely to spend it. A Labor Department study during the Presidency of George W. Bush showed that for every dollar spent on unemployment benefits, two dollars were invested back into the economy. Unemployment benefits will not only help people who need them, but will also increase economic activity in the State of Ohio. As the Ohio Legislature works to reform the unemployment trust fund, I urge you and your colleagues to make sure this isn’t done on the backs of Ohio’s workers. I will continue to speak out to ensure that they are not gutted by reductions and restrictions. Please don’t hesitate to contact me if there is any way I can assist. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Tom Rooney (R-FL) introduced the Stop Trafficking in Fentanyl Act of 2015, a bill that amends the Controlled Substances Act to ensure the law appropriately reflects the potency of the opioid fentanyl. Fentanyl is an extremely dangerous synthetic opioid drug that has recently been attributed to an increase of fatal overdoses. The Drug Enforcement Agency’s (DEA’s) assessment is that fentanyl is 50 times more potent than heroin. Fentanyl is typically prescribed for pharmaceutical purposes, usually to ease extreme pain for patients in finals stages of diseases like cancer. The drug is similar to morphine but can be up to 100 times more powerful. The Stop Trafficking of Fentanyl Act would reduce the amount of fentanyl needed to invoke the most serious trafficking penalties for an individual trafficking and manufacturing the drug. The bill would lower the threshold that triggers federal penalties from 400 grams to 20 grams to ensure that the law appropriately reflects the extreme strength of the drug, which can be fatal in doses as small as 0.25 mg. The DEA has also issued warnings to law enforcement as fentanyl can be absorbed through the skin and accidental inhalation of airborne powder can also occur. In 2014, Ohio ranked number one in the number of fentanyl seizures correlating directly to an increase in fentanyl-related deaths. Ohio reported 514 fentanyl-related overdoses in 2014 compared to 93 in 2013. “Ohio has seen yet another record-breaking year for overdose-related deaths, many due to fentanyl. We are losing too many of our friends, neighbors, and relatives to this destructive drug epidemic. I am proud to join Congressman Rooney in introducing this important legislation that will help get these drugs off the street. We must respond to this crisis from all sides by improving coordination to reduce the number of drugs available, while also increasing and expanding access to treatment for those who are suffering,” said Congressman Ryan. The state of Florida has seen a significant increase in fentanyl related deaths in the past few years. In 2014, Manatee County had the highest amount of fentanyl related deaths in the state of Florida and one of the highest in the country. “My concern is that without action, these overdose figures are only going to get worse,” said Congressman Rooney. “Under the current law, the threshold amount to invoke penalties is not appropriate with the strength of the drug. Individuals who are trafficking and profiting off fentanyl need to be adequately prosecuted in the hopes of stopping the alarming rising rate of fatal overdoses. We need to update our laws to get this incredibly dangerous synthetic drug off of the streets.”
12.03.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today voted in favor of the bipartisan conference report on Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act — a measure providing $281 billion in funding and reauthorizing highway, bridge, transportation safety, and public transit projects for the next five years. The bill also reauthorizes the Export-Import Bank for four years, providing important financing that helps America’s small businesses export products around the world. “It was time for Congress to stop passing short-term extensions and give our state and local governments the tools and the stability they need to move infrastructure projects forward,” said Congressman Ryan. “Too many communities are suffering from aging roads and bridges and I am pleased that this bill will provide the funds necessary to rebuild our country’s transportation portals and help put Americans back to work. This bill also provides additional stability and security when it comes to the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank, which is necessary to allow America’s exporting companies to secure the financing needed to keep them competitive in a global economy. There is no doubt that this legislation is a step in the right direction in removing the uncertainty that has plagued both our transportation and business industries for too long, and instead helps generate new economic growth.”
12.03.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today voted in favor of the Conference Report on the Every Student Succeeds Act (S. 1177) – which replaces No Child Left Behind and improves K-12 education in the United States. “Today Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle were able to come together in a bipartisan way to finally put an end to the broken and dysfunctional No Child Left Behind, and replace it with commonsense provisions that make great strides to improve education in the United States. This legislation ensures our young people are getting the education they deserve by working to close achievement gaps, reducing the unfair over reliance on standardized testing, and giving teachers and schools the resources they need,” said Congressman Ryan. “I am proud that this legislation includes language that will help expand and make the teaching of social and emotional learning more effective. As we have seen in my District social and emotional learning helps increase attendance, decrease suspensions and behavioral incidences, and improve attention and participation. Creating a healthy and safe environment for students to learn is essential to a quality education and I am glad that this legislation continues to advance this important cause.” To view Congressman Ryan's Floor Speech from today click here. Congressman Ryan first introduced the Academic, Social and Emotional Learning Act in 2011. This legislation defines social and emotional learning (SEL) and allows funding for teacher and principal training and professional development to be used in social and emotional learning programming. He worked with the Education and Workforce Committee to get this language in the bill. “Further, this legislation strengthens the accountability and transparency within the charter school program, including language from the Charter School Accountability Act – which I introduced earlier this year to promote the need to solicit and consider input from the parents and community before the implementation of a charter school,” added Congressman Ryan. Congressman Ryan introduced the Charter School Accountability Act in October of 2015 to increase the amount of accountability, transparency, and community involvement in Ohio’s charter schools and help ensure a high-quality education for every child. This legislation was in response to a July of 2015 incident in which the executive director of the Ohio Department of Education’s Office of Quality School Choice and the Office of Community Schools, resigned after admitting to deliberately leaving out failing grades of online charter schools. Despite these allegations, the U.S. Department of Education (ED) awarded the Ohio Department of Education a $71 million dollar grant this month. The legislation would strengthen oversight of these funds in order to prevent fraud and abuse and to ensure that all children who attend a charter school receive the education they deserve. Ohio is home to nearly 400 taxpayer-funded charter schools that educate approximately 123,000 students. The Every Student Succeeds Act was endorsed by The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Business Roundtable, The Education Trust, The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, National Council of La Raza, Democrats for Education Reform, and National Center for Learning Disabilities. The conference agreement is also supported by numerous other groups, including such groups as the National Education Association, the American Federation of Teachers, National Governors Association, National School Boards Association, National Alliance for Public Charter Schools, and STEM Education Coalition.
12.01.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan and Senators Sherrod Brown and Rob Portman urged President Obama to award African-American journalist Simeon Booker the Presidential Medal of Freedom – the highest civilian honor bestowed by the President of the United States – for his pioneering achievements in the field of journalism and his work to advance the civil rights movement. “Simeon Booker surely deserves this prestigious award. Throughout his long and illustrious career, Booker risked his own safety to bring groundbreaking coverage of the civil rights movement and the Vietnam War to the American people, and in doing so forever changed our nation for the better. Simeon Booker has devoted his life’s work to breaking barriers and changing the hearts and minds of all those he touched through his writing. He is a true American hero,” said Congressman Ryan. “Simeon Booker is proof that great journalism can help change the course of history. He stopped at nothing to cover key moments in the civil rights movement and his work helped advance the cause of civil rights in America. There is no honor more fitting for Booker than the Presidential Medal of Freedom,” said Senator Brown. “By overcoming adversity, Simeon Booker became not only a trailblazer in his field, but also a role model for generations to come. He devoted his life’s work to chronicling the history of the civil rights movement in America and is very deserving of the Presidential Medal of Freedom,” said Senator Portman. This letter was signed by both Ohio and Maryland Senators and 31 members of the House of Representatives. The full letter can be found here. Congressman Tim Ryan has also introduced legislation in the House of Representatives to award Simeon Booker the Congressional Gold Medal – the highest civilian honor bestowed by the United States Congress. Simeon Booker began his career writing about Negro League baseball teams for the Youngstown Vindicator. In 1950, he received the Nieman Fellowship to study journalism and develop his talent as a reporter. After one year at Harvard, Booker became the first full-time African American reporter at the Washington Post. In 1955 he helped advance the civil rights movement with his famous coverage of the Emmett Till murder and trial – turning a common occurrence in the Deep South into a national tragedy that united the African American community. In 1961, he rode with the Congress On Racial Equality (CORE) Freedom Riders through the Deep South. When they were firebombed and beaten by the Ku Klux Klan in Alabama, Booker arranged for their rescue by calling U.S. Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy. Simeon Booker is often referred to as the “Dean of the Black Press.” He has covered every presidential election since 1953 and is the author of two highly acclaimed books: Shocking the Conscience: A Reporter’s Account of the Civil Rights Movement and Black Man’s America. His honors and awards include: Nieman Fellowship, Harvard University 1950; President of the Capitol Press Club, 1956; Fourth Estate Award, National Press Club, 1982: Inducted into Hall of Fame, Washington Chapter of Sigma Delta Chi, and Hall of Fame of Washington, D.C. 1984; Master Communicators Award, National Black Media Coalition, 1998; Phoenix Award, Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, 2010; Inducted into Hall of Fame, National Association of Black Journalists, 2013.
11.25.2015	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to Republican-led Ohio House Bill 394, which fast-tracks cuts to unemployment compensation. Just hours before Thanksgiving, Ohio Republicans have callously moved to slash unemployment insurance for those who need it the most in our state. These are members of our family, friends and neighbors who lost their jobs through no fault of their own and paid into their unemployment insurance every month – yet Ohio Republicans don’t believe they are entitled to their earned benefits. As people around the state gather together with friends and family, we should be giving them reasons to be thankful, not adding to their list of worries and frustrations during this holiday season. I call upon the Ohio Republicans to overturn this heartless policy.
11.24.2015	Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) is excited to announce the 2015 Congressional App Challenge (CAC), a congressional initiative to improve student engagement in coding and computer science, running through Jan. 15, 2016. High School students in the 13th Congressional district are encouraged to create and submit their own original apps that will be judged by panels of local judges. On Feb. 22, 2016 the winner will be announced and honored by Congressman Ryan and their app will be on display in the Capitol Building alongside winners from other districts. “With the projected growth in the STEM sector, it is essential for students to develop these skills which, with further education and development, will encourage growth and innovation in northeastern Ohio,” said Congressman Ryan. “This challenge provides students with an opportunity to develop those skills.” STEM occupations are projected to grow at nearly twice the rate of non-STEM occupations between 2008 and 2018. Some estimates predict a shortage of up to three million high-skilled workers by 2018. It’s crucial that these investments are made now, so our youth acquire these necessary skills. The CAC highlights and encourages students to pursue those skills. Recognizing the lack of diversity in the tech sector, the CAC will also focus on making deliberate efforts to include students from all backgrounds, including those traditionally underrepresented in tech. The Internet Education Foundation will be serving as the operational sponsor of the CAC. For further information about the Congressional App Challenge, please visit congressionalappchallenge.us or call Congressman Ryan’s Youngstown office at (330) 740-0193 or the Akron office at (330) 630-7311.
11.19.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement today after voting in favor of the American SAFE Act of 2015, which further strengthens the screening process for Syrian and Iraqi refugees seeking asylum in the United States: Our current process prioritizes women and children, has multiple background checks, an extensive medical exam, and numerous in person interviews with Homeland Security officials in which every detail of the conversation must be corroborated with current databases – if just one thing doesn’t fit or there is any doubt, that individual will not be given asylum. That said, I was presented with a bill to make the current system even stronger and I believe it is reasonable to ask for the Secretary of Homeland Security, the FBI Director and the National Intelligence Director to certify refugees seeking a home in the United States. This legislation doesn’t pause the refugee process, but rather enhances it and makes it even stronger.
11.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Tim Ryan (OH-13), Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11), Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), Congressman Bob Gibbs (OH-7), Congressman David P. Joyce (OH-14), and Congressman James Renacci (OH-16) urged the U.S. Army Corps expressing support for the Port of Cleveland’s plan modification to permanently stop sediment dumping in Lake Erie. Following the recent dispute over how dredged material should be disposed of, the Port’s proposal would bring stability to this process and improve water quality for all Ohioans. “The Port of Cleveland is the economic backbone of Northeast Ohio and critical to the wellbeing of the Great Lakes and our nation. I am proud to stand with the Port and my Congressional colleagues to ensure that one of our most vital resources is not being damaged by allowing dredged sediment to be dumped back into Lake Erie,” said Rep. Ryan. “The dumping of dredged sediment into Lake Erie is a hazardous process that could bring significant harm to our fishing, recreation, and shipping economies, as well as our drinking water. I applaud the Port of Cleveland for proposing a plan to curtail this practice and provide a safer environment for everyone. We must protect our water resources and sustain the growth and vitality of the Great Lakes region,” said Rep. Fudge. “The Port of Cleveland system needs to be completely dredged every year. However, evidence has shown that dredged materials can contain dangerous legacy toxins that had been buried under rivers and lakebeds. Dumping these dredged materials directly into our lake threatens the safety of our drinking water and the ecosystems in and around Lake Erie, our most precious freshwater resource. Congress has already provided the funds needed to responsibly address this issue: keeping the port dredged and open for business without putting our lake further at risk,” said Rep. Kaptur. “The Cleveland Harbor Project is a unique situation given the ecological sensitivity of Lake Erie. The health of the Cuyahoga River has come a long way, but the State of Ohio’s data shows there are still improvements to be made. I do not believe that open-lake disposal for this project to be environmentally prudent. I urge the Corps to not consider it as an option for the Port of Cleveland,” said Rep. Gibbs. "This is absolutely critical for Northeast Ohio. I’m glad we can all come together to support this request from the Port of Cleveland, not only because it’s the right thing to do, but because jobs, the economy, and the health of Lake Erie rely on it," said Rep. Joyce. “Dredging is an important tool to ensure commerce can easily move throughout northeast Ohio and the greater Great Lakes region. I believe we need to listen to all stakeholders involved so our economy continues to grow for all Ohioans,” said Rep. Renacci. Members of the Ohio Delegation sent the letter to army officials on November 13. Read the text below: Assistant Secretary of the Army, Civil Works 108 Army Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20310-0108 Dear Assistant Secretary Darcy: We write today in support of a proposed project modification request pursuant to section 7001 of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014 (128 Stat. 1360-1364) submitted by the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority (“Port of Cleveland”) on September 23, 2015. The project modification would clarify – for the Cleveland Harbor Project only – that the Federal standard mandating the use of the least costly, environmentally acceptable dredging plan not include placement of the dredged sediment into Lake Erie, unless approved by the State of Ohio under Section 401 of the Clean Water Act. The modification assures the continued federal maintenance of the Cleveland Harbor Project with upland confined placement of all dredged material. This has been the method of dredged material management since the early 1970s. Extensive study by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency determined sediment in the Federal channel remains contaminated, posing a potential threat to the local drinking water supply and the level of contaminants accumulating in the Lake’s aquatic populations. The continued maintenance of the Cleveland Harbor Project is critical to the Great Lakes region and the nation. Nearly 18,000 jobs and $1.8 billion of economic activity are tied to the approximately 15 million tons of cargo, primarily iron ore, limestone, steel, heavy machinery and equipment, moving through the Port of Cleveland and the Cuyahoga River channel each year. The Port of Cleveland also provides the only regularly scheduled service to Europe for containerized and non-containerized cargo on the Great Lakes. The Port, working in conjunction with the State of Ohio, has been an innovative, national leader in creating a viable plan for intercepting commercially valued, bed-load material before it enters the Federal channel. This program has the potential to reduce the annual volume of maintenance dredged material by as much as 15 percent. The Port is also undertaking, as part of its Confined Disposal Facility (CDF) 12 capacity management plan, the harvesting of dredged material for reuse in community improvement and road construction projects. Recycling the sediments will extend the useful life of the CDF and reduce the need to invest in new facility construction. There has been a great deal of debate surrounding the placement of sediments dredged from Cleveland waters and uncertainty as to whether funded maintenance dredging will be completed on schedule each year. Meanwhile, the concerns of the State and its citizens over the quality of Lake Erie have resulted in a policy decision to soon halt open water placement throughout the State. We share these concerns and support the project modification request by the Port of Cleveland. We believe inclusion of this project modification in the upcoming annual “Report to Congress on Future Water Resources Development” meets the 5 criteria under Section 7001(c)(1)(a) of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014. This modification will avoid the yearly, unproductive standoffs threatening to injure a major economic engine for the region. The Port should be allowed to continue managing sediments of questionable quality in confined disposal areas to ensure a safe, quality environment for the citizens of Northeast Ohio. Thank for your attention to this proposal. Sincerely, Marcia L. Fudge Bob Gibbs Member of Congress Member of Congress Marcy Kaptur David P. Joyce Member of Congress Member of Congress Tim Ryan James Renacci Member of Congress Member of Congress
11.16.2015	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement in response to Governor Kasich's remarks calling on the President to cease Syrian refugee settlements nationally, and specifically in Ohio: We live in difficult and complicated times. We live in a world full of fear and tragedy, and we need leaders who will show courage in the face of fear, not cower to it. While the Islamic State is brutal and dangerous, we can not fear them. We must destroy them and help prevent the conditions that make such extreme and radical behavior seem reasonable to the people joining their ranks. I am disheartened by Governor Kasich and other leaders who lack the courage needed to stand up to this grave threat and to stick to our values we hold dear as Americans all because they fear our enemy. In short, they have caved in to their fears. I, for one, will not let ISIS or any other terrorist organization scare me into abandoning our deepest principles as a country by turning our backs on refugees, especially women and children, in their time of tremendous need. Women and children with no where else to go, no homes, no money, no security. Would any of us want our kids put in that situation? We often hear from these very same leaders that America is no longer a strong country and that we are no longer respected in the world. If you want to look strong, be strong. If we want to be respected we must show courage in the face of cowardice. ISIS has frightened these leaders to the point of weakness. I'm glad our men and women in the military, our veterans who served and our first responders who face these fears everyday have a different attitude than the leaders who represent them. There is no doubt that there must be a strong vetting process. Currently, this system can take up to two years to fully evaluate potential threats. We need to ensure these procedures are strongly adhered to as our first responsibility to keep our citizens safe. Whether it is the Statue of Liberty, given to us by France, which says "give us your tired, your poor, your huddled masses" or the scriptures that tell us in Matthew 25:35, "For I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you gave me drink, I was a stranger and you welcomed me". There are no qualifiers on these statements that say to dismiss them if you are scared. Now is the time for America to answer the call, stomp out ISIS and be that beacon of light so many citizens of the world long to be a part of. So many politicians talk about America as a shining city on a Hill, but unfortunately today they wallow in the valley of weakness and mediocrity.
11.06.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan announces that the U.S. International Trade Commissions (ITC) today made an affirmative determination in its final phase antidumping and countervailing duty investigations concerning Certain Welded Line Pipe from Korea and Turkey. Welded line pipe is used to transport oil and natural gas from fields to larger pipelines for eventual use by refineries and utilities. Two companies in Ohio’s 13th Congressional District were included in the case, EnergeX, Division of JMC Steel Co (Warren and Niles) and TMK IPSCO (Brookfield). “I am pleased that the ITC has come out on the side of American manufacturing. This decision makes it clear that Korea and Turkey are taking advantage of the American workforce and our manufacturing sector. We cannot allow other countries to rig the game and take good-paying jobs away from American workers, including those at Warren’s Energex and Brookfield’s TMK IPSCO. The ITC’s decision gives Ohio and our nation the level playing field it deserves and helps our state remain one of the top steel producers in the country,” said Congressman Ryan. In November of 2014, Congressman Ryan submitted a request to the Preliminary Conference in the initial phase of the investigation. The letter can be viewed here. In October 2015, Congressman Ryan submitted testimony at the Final Injury Hearing. His testimony can be viewed here.
11.06.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan introduced legislation yesterday to designate November as “National Diabetes Awareness Month” – Co-Chairs of the House Diabetes Caucus, Representatives Ed Whitfield (R-KY) and Diana DeGette (D-CO) cosponsored the legislation. “Diabetes affects 30 million children and adults, and has quickly become one of our nation’s most expensive and detrimental diseases. Recent estimates project that as many as 1 in 3 American adults will have diabetes by 2050 unless we take steps to stop this growing epidemic. It is my hope that this resolution will help individuals in the United States fight diabetes through public awareness of prevention and treatment options, enhancing diabetes education, recognizing the importance of early detection, awareness of the symptoms, and understanding the risk factors of this disease,” said Congressman Ryan (OH-13). “My home state of Kentucky continues to rank in the top 10 every year in the number of new diabetes cases. This is one of the main reasons I serve as Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Diabetes Caucus working to combat this terrible disease. I am proud to join Representatives Ryan and DeGette in introducing this important resolution, which recognizes the month of November as Diabetes Awareness Month, and to continue our efforts to prevent and better manage diabetes.” – Representative Ed Whitfield (KY-01). “In the past year, 1.5 million Americans have been diagnosed with diabetes, and millions more remain undiagnosed. This disease affects people in every community and of every age and race. Diabetes Awareness Month is an important opportunity to educate the public and help those dealing with diabetes get the treatment they need, and I am pleased to work with Congressman Whitfield, my co-chair for the Congressional Diabetes Caucus, and Congressman Ryan to help spread the word and support everyone dealing with diabetes,” said Rep. DeGette (CO-01). This legislation was endorsed by the American Diabetes Association, Healthcare Leadership Council, Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, and the Diabetes Advocacy Alliance.
11.06.2015	
11.06.2015	
11.05.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today after voting in favor of the 6-year Highway Bill Reauthorization and the Export-Import Bank (Ex-Im Bank) Reauthorization – the DRIVE Act (HR 22) passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 363 – 64. “I have been calling on Republican-leadership to allow a vote on a long-term highway bill and reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank, which together will create good-paying jobs, increase U.S. exports and help rebuild our deteriorating infrastructure – and I am thankful that today, both sides of the aisle have come together to pass bipartisan legislation that goes a long way towards accomplishing those goals. Our country’s bridges are unsafe, our infrastructure is failing and our roads are crumbling. This is why the long-term reauthorization of the Highway bill is so important to both our private and public sectors’ success and ensures our roads, bridges, rail and water lines are safe, secure and ready for business. “The expiration of the Export-Import Bank has caused sever uncertainty over the past months and has put American companies at a devastating disadvantage in global markets – and in the case of Cincinnati, Ohio, it meant GE would not move its headquarters, and the jobs and capital that come with a move of that caliber, to the city. The Ex-Im Bank has supported 350 Ohio businesses and 1.3 million jobs nationally since 2007, and I am pleased that Congress was able to pass the reauthorization of this important American institution.”
11.05.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement today in response to the release of the Trans-Pacific Partnership text: "After years of secret meetings negotiations, the text of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) has finally been released, and it reinforces that nothing that was done behind closed doors will help move our country forward. The text of TPP is worse than I thought, with provisions that will move jobs overseas and push wages down for hardworking American. Furthermore, this agreement is a slap in the face for American companies and workers when it comes to strong currency language; instead of promoting a level playing field around the world, TPP includes weak and unenforceable currency provisions that will do nothing to ensure the future competiveness of our country’s manufacturing. I remain committed to working with my colleagues to fight TPP and make sure clandestine deals do not move our country backwards."
11.05.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement on the inclusion of $12.7 million for area bases in the Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that passed the House of Representatives today. The legislation authorizes $9.4 million to the Youngstown Air Reserve Station (YARS) to upgrade their Indoor Firing Range and authorizes $3.3 million to the Ravenna Joint Military Training Center for a Modified Record Fire Range. “I am pleased that funding for the Youngstown Air Reserve Station and Camp Ravenna was included in this year’s NDAA. This funding will give our Airmen and Soldiers the training facilities necessary to remain combat ready and complete their missions.” said Congressman Ryan. “Each and every day, the men and women stationed in Youngstown and Camp Ravenna sacrifice for our safety and it is our job to give them the resources they need to succeed. I am proud to have supported our men and women in uniform and will continue to work to ensure these vital funds get to YARS and Camp Ravenna.” The FY16 National Defense Authorization Act Conference Report provides discretionary base budget authority for the Department of Defense (DOD) and defense-related activities of the Department of Energy at post-sequester levels. The bill authorizes approximately $515 billion in discretionary base budget authority, including roughly $496.4 billion for the Department of Defense base budget and $18.6 billion for defense-related activities of the Department of Energy.
11.05.2015	Washington, DC –The U.S. House of Representatives adopted an amendment by Congressman Tim Ryan to the six-year highway reauthorization bill (DRIVE Act). The amendment ensures states have the discretion to identify the most cost effective emission reduction technologies, including alternative fuel vehicles. Congresswoman Grace Napolitano (D-CA) cosponsored the amendment. The amendment addresses one specific provision in the highway bill that modifies how Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality (CMAQ) funds can be used in regions exceeding pollution standards. The purpose of the CMAQ Program is to fund transportation projects or programs that will contribute to the compliance or maintenance of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS). Without this amendment, the highway bill’s language could have restricted the states’ ability to identify the most effective emission reduction technologies and effectively limit their options to only diesel retrofits. “Communities across the country are striving to improve air quality and reduce congestion, and the CMAQ program is a critical tool to achieve our goals. The Ryan-Napolitano Amendment ensures that states will have the discretion they need to find innovative creative solutions to reduces emissions—including vehicles that run on clean natural gas, propane or electricity,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. "Natural gas vehicles offer immediate benefits to improve air quality and the CMAQ program has been a valuable tool for communities across the country to achieve this goal. NGVAmerica applauds Rep. Ryan for his amendment which gives states new flexibility in utilizing CMAQ funds to select the best fuels and solutions to meet their individual challenges," said Matthew Godlewski, President of NGVAmerica. “The CMAQ program, and the alternative fuel vehicles deployed through it, have been effective tools in improving air quality and reducing congestion. EDTA supports Rep. Ryan’s amendment to ensure that State DOTs and metropolitan planning organizations continue to have the flexibility to employ the most effective alternative fuel solutions, including electric drive, to reduce P.M. and other pollutants,” said Genevieve Cullen, President of the Electric Drive Transportation Association (EDTA). "Propane autogas is an important part of helping Americans lessen pollution associated with motor fuels. NPGA is thrilled that Rep. Ryan’s common sense proposal was adopted to broaden the technologies available to the marketplace to reduce pollution associated with Diesel engines," said Phil Squair, Senior Vice President, Public and Governmental Affairs of the National Propane Gas Association.
11.04.2015	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan today responds to the U.S. Department of Education’s announcement that they are placing a temporary hold on funds and additional conditions on the Ohio Department of Education’s grant funding due to financial and academic irregularities of Ohio’s charter school program. The U.S. Department of Education has put in place a temporary “route payment” status on the Charter Schools Program State Educational Agencies (CSP SEA) funds awarded to Ohio Department of Education (ODE) under the FY 2015 grant competition. This will enable ODE to drawdown funds for this project only with the approval of an appropriate Department official. View the U.S. Department of Education letter here. “It is difficult to ask the federal government to withhold money that could—in theory—be put to good use, but the U.S. Department of Education did the right thing to slow down the process and ensure that these funds go to the children who need them the most. There has to be high accountability and transparency when it comes to how we educate our children, and I am pleased to see that the U.S. Department of Education has announced increased level of oversight on the implementation of Ohio’s $71 million charter school grant,” said Congressman Ryan. “The State of Ohio will now see a new level of scrutiny that will make sure that these education dollars are spent properly, which is what our children deserve. The U.S. Department of Education will withhold the money until Ohio provides an overview of the recent changes, including new personnel, the implementation of the charter reform legislation and the response to additional auditing.” On October 1, 2015, Congressman Ryan urged the U.S. Department of Education to do just this, and place additional oversight and stricter restrictions on this grant awarded to Ohio. Find more information on Congressman Ryan’s letter to U.S. Department of Education here. On October 5, 2015, Congressman Ryan sent a letter to request Ohio's original application for the grant to gain a better understanding of Ohio's goals for the funds. Learn more about Congressman Ryan's request to view the grant application here. On October 8, 2015, Congressman Ryan joined the Ohio Democratic Delegation in urging the Department of Education to seek more clarification about Ohio'a application and seek more oversight for the funds to charter schools in Ohio. Learn more about the letter here. On October 21, 2015, Congressman Ryan also introduced the Charter School Accountability Act to increase transparency and oversight of the U.S. charter school system – including the 123,000 Ohio students attending charter schools. Learn more about the Charter School Accountability Act here.
11.03.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan is announcing that the Ohio Housing Finance Agency (OHFA) made $13 million available from the U.S. Treasury’s Hardest Hit Funds for 12 Ohio land banks – including Mahoning, Trumbull and Stark Counties which will each receive $500,000. The Neighborhood Initiative Program (NIP) aims to stabilize property values by removing and greening vacant and blighted properties in targeted areas in an effort to prevent future foreclosures for existing homeowners in those neighborhoods. Local land banks acquire and find productive uses for vacant, abandoned or tax-foreclosed properties. “I am pleased to announce that our local land banks have been rewarded for their hard work and commitment to excellence,” Congressman Tim Ryan said. “These funds allow our local land banks to continue improving quality of life in Northeast Ohio by fighting blight and creating sustainable neighborhoods.” “Mahoning County Land Bank’s leadership in the Neighborhood Initiative Program already has made a positive impact for residents,” said Debora Flora, Executive Director of the Mahoning County Land Bank, said. “We are grateful for these additional resources, which will bolster our efforts to restore safety and confidence in our neighborhoods.” "This allocation gives a huge shot in the arm to TNP and the TCLRC's established effort to increase the quality of life in the neighborhoods of Trumbull County,” said Matt Martin, Executive Director of Trumbull Neighborhood Partnership. “We have torn down over a hundred houses through this program already and greened a dozen lots. We have a ways to go and this will help us take another huge step forward" “The Trumbull County Land Reutilization Corporation is extremely proud that our working relationship with the Trumbull County Treasurers Office, the Trumbull County Prosecutors Office and Trumbull Neighborhood Partnership has rated the Trumbull County Land Bank as a top performer in the Neighborhood Initiative Program, which has enabled our program to receive an additional Program Reallocation Award of $500,000.00,” Trumbull County Treasurer Sam Lamancusa said. This is the fourth round of NIP funding. Recipients qualified by showing progress in acquiring vacant and blighted properties. Funds were recycled from land banks that have not met minimum property acquisition requirements. OHFA was allocated $570.4 million of Hardest Hit Funds by the U.S. Department of the Treasury in 2010, and $79 million of those funds have been approved for use by the NIP. Hardest Hit Funds were released following the housing crisis to assist state governments in their efforts to help struggling homeowners in the 18 states hardest hit by the crisis. State Housing Finance Agencies have until the end of 2017 to utilize these funds. The twelve counties receiving an increase in funding through NIP are: Ashtabula County Land Reutilization Corporation $500,000 Clark County Land Reutilization Corporation $500,000 Columbiana County Land Reutilization Corporation $500,000 Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization Corporation $6,075,000 Central Ohio Community Improvement Corporation (Franklin) $500,000 Hamilton County Land Reutilization Corporation $500,000 Lucas County Land Reutilization Corporation $2,300,000 Mahoning County Land Reutilization Corporation $500,000 Montgomery County Land Reutilization Corporation $500,000 Richland County Land Reutilization Corporation $500,000 Stark County Land Reutilization Corporation $500,000 Trumbull County Land Reutilization Corporation $500,000
10.29.2015	Warren, Ohio — Congressman Tim Ryan today is announcing $2,406,229 to be awarded to Trumbull County Action Program in Warren, Ohio to fund Head Start services. Head Start promotes school readiness by enhancing the social and cognitive development of low-income children through the provision of comprehensive health, educational, nutritional, social and other services. “I’m pleased to announce that the Trumbull Community Action Program has received this important funding,” Congressman Ryan said. “Head Start’s mission to provide social services to low-income children gives our children the support and tools they need to succeed. This program is critical to so many in our community and across the nation and I am happy that these funds are going to such a good cause.” This grant is part of the Head Start program through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). The funds are budgeted to support the program from November 1, 2015 through October 31, 2016.
10.29.2015	Warren, OH — Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) and State Representative Sean O'Brien (Bazetta) will hold a press conference at 11:00a.m. on Friday, October 30, at Congressman Ryan’s office, 197 West Market St., Warren, Ohio, 44503 to recap their recent research and trade mission to Cuba. The lawmakers will discuss future trade opportunities within Cuba and detail how a cultural exchange of ideas and innovative practices would benefit both Ohioans and Cubans. They will be joined by Dr. Milton Sanchez-Parodi of Vista Trade Group, who helped organize the trip, as well as local business leader Russ Sewell, CEO of Quality Switch in Newton Falls and one of the trip participants. “Our visit to Cuba reaffirmed the vast opportunities available to our business community, and I stand ready to continue working with the Cuban government and our public and private sector to ensure Northeast Ohio will benefit from the lifting of this decades-long embargo,” said Congressman Ryan. “I am excited about the possibilities that lay ahead and look forward to helping foster and grow a robust business relationship between our region and Cuba.” Congressman Ryan and Rep. O’Brien also explored future trade opportunities in meetings with U.S. Ambassador to Cuba Jeffrey DeLaurentis, Cuban National Assembly Member Dr. Jose Luis Toledo Santander, and Josefina Vidal Ferreiro, Director General of the United States Division of the Cuban Ministry of Foreign Affairs to discuss future economic opportunities between Ohio and Cuban businesses. In addition, Mahoning Valley business leaders participated in high-level talks with Cuban officials from various sectors of the economy to discuss how Ohio businesses can foster economic partnerships with the island nation. “The impetus of this mission was to share ideas and to develop trade opportunities for Ohio businesses,” said Rep. O’Brien. “While in Cuba, Congressman Ryan and I traveled to a local hospital and school to witness some of the innovative strategies being employed by Cuban doctors and educators. Through our meetings, we hope to foster partnerships that will mutually benefit Ohio and Cuba both economically and culturally. We have a lot to learn and share with each other. I am excited to see how this partnership develops.” While this month’s mission provided a launching pad for potential business investment opportunities that exist under current law, further cooperation between Ohio and Cuba will likely require future negotiations and fully lifting the U.S. embargo of Cuba—a decision that rests in the hands of Congress.
10.29.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement after voting in favor of the Bipartisan Budget Agreement (HR 1314): I am relieved that cooler heads have prevailed today and Republican leadership agreed to put politics aside and fund the government for the next two years. This agreement will provide the security and stability that our country has been looking for over the past few years from Congress. I hope the new Republican leadership follows in these footsteps and works with Democrats to help solve the major issues that have been plaguing our nation for far too long. For years I have worked to bring an end to sequestration and give the much-needed relief to important programs in Ohio and across the nation, and I am happy that Republican leadership has finally agreed to increase spending for critical domestic and defense initiatives. We should not be balancing the budget on the backs of the most vulnerable – children, seniors, and the disabled – and this legislation is a step in the right direction. With this budget, Congress is able to avert a major increase in Medicare Part B premiums and deductibles for millions of seniors next year. This agreement also prevents a 20 percent cut in disability benefits for millions of individuals at the end of 2016, while extending the solvency of Social Security Disability Insurance. At the same time, I am pleased this agreement increases the debt limit of the United States until March 15, 2017, reaffirming the full faith and credit of our country. This legislation will create 340,000 jobs next year alone and provides the certainty the business community and our nation need to grow the economy and move our nation forward.
10.27.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan strongly supported the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank’s (Ex-Im Bank) charter today, which expired on July 1, 2015. “I was furious when Republican leadership allowed the Ex-Im Bank to expire earlier this year and have worked tirelessly to reauthorize this important part of the U.S. economy. These past months of uncertainty have put American companies at a devastating disadvantage in global markets – and in the case of Cincinnati, Ohio, it meant GE would not move its headquarters, and the jobs and capital that come with a move of that caliber, to the city,” said Congressman Ryan. “The Ex-Im Bank has supported 350 Ohio businesses and 1.3 million jobs nationally since 2007. Yet knowing the critical role this institution plays in allowing American businesses to compete globally, the Republican leadership refused to hold what they knew would be a successful vote until their hand was forced. This should not be the way we run our country.” The Tea Party wing of the Republican Party celebrated shutting down this 81-year-old institution and was only reauthorized because 42 Republicans joined 176 Democrats (including Congressman Ryan) in signing a discharge petition – a legislative maneuver to force a vote on specific legislation. In September 2015, reports arose that General Electric (GE) decided not to move its headquarters to Cincinnati, Ohio, due to the opposition of the Export-Import Bank by Governor Kasich and Republican members of Ohio’s congressional delegation. In response, Congressman Tim Ryan urged Jeffrey Immelt, Chairman and CEO of General Electric to reconsider Cincinnati and the state of Ohio for its corporate headquarters. View the letter here.
10.26.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today in response to the House Republican Party’s 61st vote to repeal the Affordable Care Act and another attempt to defund Planned Parenthood – both of which were included in a budget reconciliation package to fund the government: Today’s vote was yet another in a long line of examples of the Republican Party refusing to lead. Today Republicans voted to repeal the Affordable Care Act for the 61st time and defund Planned Parenthood yet again. Our nation is speeding towards the brink of a fiscal cliff and government shutdown, but instead of actually addressing these imminent economic catastrophes, Congressional Republicans have decided to vote on a measure that they know full well will never become law or move the United States forward. The American people deserve better from their leaders.
10.21.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement in response to Vice President Joe Biden’s announcement that he will not run for President of the United States: I cannot imagine how difficult this decision was for Vice President Biden. He is an extraordinary public servant who has made it his life’s mission to speak out on the issues important to the nation and be a voice for hard working Americans. I respect his choice to spend time with his family. While he would have been a powerful candidate, there is no doubt that he will continue to have a strong influence on the direction of the country. I look forward to working with the Vice President in helping to shape our nation for future generations.
10.21.2015	Washington, DC – During a news conference call today, U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and U.S. Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH-13) outlined bicameral legislation that would increase the amount of accountability, transparency, and community involvement in Ohio’s charter schools and help ensure a high-quality education for every child. Ohio is home to nearly 400 taxpayer-funded charter schools that educate approximately 123,000 students. “Our children pay the price for the mismanagement of charter schools,” Brown said. “This bill would help ensure a high-quality education for every child. By including some of these measures in the Every Child Achieves Act, the Senate already sent a strong, bipartisan message that all our schools need to be held accountable—it’s time for the House to follow suit.” “There is no doubt that Ohio’s current charter school system is a mess,” Ryan said. “Our children deserve better. I introduced the Charter School Accountability Act to increase transparency and oversight of the U.S. charter school system – the 123,000 Ohio students attending charter schools, and their parents, should never have to worry if they are getting the education they are owed. We must learn from the Ohio Department of Education’s mistakes and ensure charter school programs around the country make student success their top priority.” Today, Congressman Ryan introduced the Charter School Accountability Act in the U.S. House of Representatives. Earlier this year Senator Brown introduced the Senate version of the legislation – parts of which were included in the Senate-passed Every Child Achieves Act, legislation to reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Reauthorization Act. In July, the executive director of the Ohio Department of Education’s Office of Quality School Choice and the Office of Community Schools, resigned after admitting to deliberately leaving out failing grades of online charter schools. Despite these allegations, the U.S. Department of Education (ED) awarded the Ohio Department of Education a $71 million dollar grant this month. The legislation would strengthen oversight of these funds in order to prevent fraud and abuse and to ensure that all children who attend a charter school receive the education they deserve. Specifically, the Charter School Accountability Act would: Improve accountability by strengthening transparency and disclosure measures for charter schools. It would require both independent financial audits and public disclosures about important financial information, like charter documents, performance agreements between the school and its authorizer, the school’s program and mission, student discipline policies and processes, and annual student and teacher attrition rates. The bill also requires disaggregated data on information on disciplinary actions, student recruitment, admission, and retention. Increase state educational agencies’ charter school accountability measures. The legislation would require that states have performance standards for charter school authorizers, data on charter school closures, denials of renewals, and canceled charters. States must also have the authority to suspend or revoke a charter school’s authorization based on poor performance or violating policies. Additionally, states must have clear conflict of interest laws for school employees and establish fiduciary duties for officers, directors, managers, and employees of charter schools. Require charter schools to have parent and community buy-in. The legislation would ensure charter schools solicit and consider input from parents and community members on how to implement and operate charter schools. This bill also requires that entities receiving federal funds submit plans and descriptions detailing community aand parent involvement in the planning, opening, and operation of charter schools. For traditional public schools applying to convert to charter school status, the bill requires that there is demonstrated support of the conversion by two-thirds of the families attending the school and two-thirds of the school staff. It also calls for charter school authorizers to provide impact statements and reports on the role charter schools have on the overall schools system and provide information on student enrollment trends. The bill is supported by the National Education Association (NEA) and the American Federation of Teachers (AFT). According to a report from Stanford University’s Center for Research on Education Outcomes (CREDO), students at Ohio’s charter schools lose 43 days of math instruction and 14 days of reading instruction compared with traditional public schools in the state.
10.09.2015	WASHINGTON, DC — U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH—13) and State Rep. Sean J. O’Brien (Bazetta) will hold a press conference this upcoming Tuesday, October 13th at 9:00am at the Youngstown Business Incubator to announce their upcoming trip to Cuba this month to meet with Cuban officials and study ways to strengthen Ohio’s economic ties with the island nation. Joining O’Brien and Ryan on the research mission will be Atty. Luis M. Alcalde of Kegler, Brown, Hill & Ritter and Vista Trade Group, and several northeastern Ohio business leaders. “Given the assets of the Mahoning Valley, it makes perfect sense for us to go to Cuba and explore the economic opportunities that will benefit the businesses and people here in northeastern Ohio,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “ Our manufacturing expertise and agricultural sector can provide the Cuban people with great products made right here in our State. I look forward to meeting with officials from the Cuban government and businesses to educate them on the wonderful resources that Northeast Ohio can offer and provide to the Cuban economy for the future.” “This research mission allows us to develop mutually beneficial relationships that will grow our economy,” said O’Brien. “Ohio can provide the infrastructure, agriculture and technology development that Cuba needs, while our state can benefit from Cuba’s proficiency in healthcare. This trip will build a strong foundation for Ohio enterprise within Cuba and open doors of opportunity for trade both under current regulations and once the trade embargo is fully lifted.” “This mission trip is nothing short of historic,” O’Brien added. “In entering into economic and legal discussions, we are positioning Ohio far ahead of the national curve. As talks continue and relations begin to normalize, Ohio will be in a tremendous position to build upon an important economic relationship with an emerging actor in the global economy.” In addition to economic and legal research, the Ohio delegation will explore the Mariel Special Development Zone to explore Cuba’s state-run economy and foreign investment law. The mission group will also research Cuba’s private sector economy and meet with U.S. Embassy officials in Havana. This mission marks the first time in at least 55 years that a group of Ohioans will discuss trade with Cuban officials, and is one of the first trips of its kind in the country to be undertaken since the recent “thaw” in U.S.-Cuba relations.
10.09.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement on his vote to lift the ban on the U.S. export of crude oil. Congressman Ryan voted in favor of this legislation (HR 702), which passed the House of Representatives by a vote 261 – 159. This legislation is now awaiting action in Senate.“Lifting this ban will be an economic boom for Ohio and the United States; creating 16,000 jobs and almost $3 billion in investment in our state alone. This common sense solution will put more money in the pockets of hard working Americans by lowering gas prices by 2 to 12 cents a gallon,” said Congressman Ryan. “Removing the ban is not only vital to our economy, but also our national security. As a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, I understand the geopolitical impact this legislation will have and for me it is clear – we should be giving consistent and reliable energy to our allies in Europe and around the world so they have an alternative to only doing business with volatile actors in the Middle East and Russia.” Congressman Ryan spoke on the House Floor today in support of lifting the ban: Play
10.09.2015	COLUMBUS/WASHINGTON, D.C.—State Rep. Sean J. O’Brien (Bazetta) and U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH—13) will hold a press conference this upcoming Tuesday, October 13th at 9:00a.m. at the Youngstown Business Incubator to announce their upcoming trip to Cuba this month to meet with Cuban officials and study ways to strengthen Ohio’s economic ties with the island nation. Joining O’Brien and Ryan on the research mission will be Atty. Luis M. Alcalde of Kegler, Brown, Hill & Ritter and Vista Trade Group, and several northeastern Ohio business leaders. “Given the assets of the Mahoning Valley, it makes perfect sense for us to go to Cuba and explore the economic opportunities that will benefit the businesses and people here in northeastern Ohio,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Our manufacturing expertise and agricultural sector can provide the Cuban people with great products made right here in our State. I look forward to meeting with officials from the Cuban government and businesses to educate them on the wonderful resources that Northeast Ohio can offer and provide to the Cuban economy for the future.” “This research mission allows us to develop mutually beneficial relationships that will grow our economy,” said O’Brien. “Ohio can provide the infrastructure, agriculture and technology development that Cuba needs, while our state can benefit from Cuba’s proficiency in healthcare. This trip will build a strong foundation for Ohio enterprise within Cuba and open doors of opportunity for trade both under current regulations and once the trade embargo is fully lifted.” “This mission trip is nothing short of historic,” O’Brien added. “In entering into economic and legal discussions, we are positioning Ohio far ahead of the national curve. As talks continue and relations begin to normalize, Ohio will be in a tremendous position to build upon an important economic relationship with an emerging actor in the global economy.” In addition to economic and legal research, the Ohio delegation will explore the Mariel Special Development Zone to explore Cuba’s state-run economy and foreign investment law. The mission group will also research Cuba’s private sector economy and meet with U.S. Embassy officials in Havana. This mission marks the first time in at least 55 years that a group of Ohioans will discuss trade with Cuban officials, and is one of the first trips of its kind in the country to be undertaken since the recent “thaw” in U.S.-Cuba relations.
10.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Amidst reports that certain charter schools in Ohio are misspending taxpayer dollars and falsifying data, members of the Ohio delegation, led by U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-OH), called on the U.S. Department of Education (ED) to strengthen accountability and transparency for Ohio’s charter schools. In a letter to ED Secretary Arne Duncan, Brown and U.S. Reps. Tim Ryan (D-OH-13), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH-9), Marcia Fudge (D-OH-11), and Joyce Beatty (D-OH-3), called on him to clarify how ED ensured that falsified data was not used to evaluate an Ohio grant application and to take steps to ensure that the funding awarded to Ohio will be used appropriately. “There is no denying that Ohio’s charter school oversight system is broken. Parents should not be the only ones worrying if their children are getting the education they deserve – our state government has the responsibility to ensure that Ohio students are not being underserved by their schools. I look forward to seeing the U.S. Department of Education’s plan to ensure these funds are used to improve education for Ohio children,” said Ryan. “Parents and taxpayers deserve to know that our classrooms are providing students with a quality education,” Brown said. “The fraud we’ve seen from some charter schools and state officials engage is unacceptable. The Department of Education must strengthen oversight and ensure that this federal funding is used to benefit charter school operators that are working hard to make sure all children who attend receive the education they deserve.” “Ohio’s education system benefits immensely from this level of federal support. However, directing federal funds to the state’s troubled charter school system raises important questions and more than a few eyebrows as it appears to lack proper oversight or accountability,” said Kaptur. “With a few important exceptions such as Breakthrough Schools in Cleveland, Ohio’s charter system overall has a record of misusing funds and abusing the public’s trust. It is my fervent hope that the U.S. Department of Education will reevaluate the distribution of federal support to Ohio schools to ensure that they are spent responsibly and appropriately on properly educating Ohio’s school children.” “A lack of transparency and meaningful oversight has failed many of our state’s charter school students … that cannot continue,” said Fudge. “As a member of the House Education & Workforce Committee, and Ranking Member of the Early Childhood Elementary & Secondary Education Subcommittee, mending our state’s charter school system is one of my top priorities. We must ensure Ohio’s children get a quality education and ultimately benefit from these funds.” “High-quality schools are central to building and sustaining our communities, including charter schools. I expect the U.S. Department of Education and the Ohio Department of Education will be accountable with these federal funds so that Ohio’s students receive the education that they deserve,” said Beatty. In their letter, the delegation urged ED to increase oversight of charter schools and to restrict these funds from being used to finance a takeover of Ohio public school districts. The members also praised Ohio’s several high-quality charter schools and urged ED to ensure that grants are only awarded to charter school operators with proven records of success. In July, David Hansen, the executive director of the Ohio Department of Education’s Office of Quality School Choice and the Office of Community Schools, resigned after admitting to deliberately leaving out failing grades of online charter schools. Despite these allegations, the U.S. Department of Education (ED) awarded the Ohio Department of Education a $71 million dollar grant last week to expand charter schools in Ohio. The full letter is below: October 7, 2015 The Honorable Arne Duncan Secretary Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20202 Dear Secretary Duncan: Last week, the Ohio Department of Education was awarded a $71 million dollar grant as part of the United States Department of Education’s (USDOE) Charter Schools Program. As you know, the Ohio charter school sector has been beset by so many problems, especially in the for-profit and online sector, that charter school advocates have referred to Ohio as the “Wild, Wild West” of charter schools.[1] This atmosphere of lax regulation has now cast a pall over this grant award. In July 2015, the executive director of the Ohio Department of Education’s Office of Quality School Choice and the Office of Community Schools, David Hansen, resigned after acknowledging that he manipulated charter school data. Mr. Hansen prepared Ohio’s grant application, and there have been allegations that Ohio’s grant application was based on false or misleading assertions by the Ohio Department of Education. Following the grant award, Ohio’s Auditor of State Dave Yost noted that he was “shocked” that Ohio received the grant the given the state’s poor track record at ensuring that charters do not misspend tax dollars.[2] According to a review by the Akron Beacon Journal, Ohio charter schools misspend public money almost four times as often than any other type of public sector agency.[3] We accordingly urge you to take steps to ensure that this funding is spent appropriately and that it is used to help improve the poor performance of many charter school operators in the state. In order to better understand that process by which this grant was awarded we would appreciate a response to the below questions by November 30, 2015. 1) Was the USDOE aware of Mr. Hansen’s manipulation of Ohio charter school data during the grant review process? What steps were taken to independently verify that this data was not part of the review process? 2) Despite long standing concerns regarding charter school performance and accountability in Ohio, the USDOE’s Technical Review Form for this grant states that, “Ohio has established high and exacting accountability expectations of authorizers (including evaluation against standards) and, inferentially, schools.” What is the basis for this statement? What steps did the Department of Education take to independently verify assertions made in Ohio’s application for this grant program? 3) How many of the peer reviewers who reviewed this application came from charter school advocacy organizations? What are the backgrounds of the reviewers? 4) How are often are these special conditions attached to charter school grant award? Were special conditions attached to any other awardees this year? How do the conditions attached to this award compare to those attached to other grant awards? 5) Ohio’s efforts to increase accountability in the charter school sector have long been stalled in the state legislature. Is the USDOE directing that grant funds be used to improve oversight of Ohio’s charter schools? 6) According to recent reports, Ohio education officials filled out the grant application intending to direct money to charter school startups in “academically distressed areas.” Only Youngstown and Lorain currently fit this description. Is the Department of Education prepared to take any steps to ensure that these funds are not used to finance a state takeover of these school districts? In Ohio and across the nation there are concerns about how some charter schools are spending taxpayer dollars and educating students. As you work to exercise oversight over the Charter Schools Program, we urge you to strengthen charter school accountability and transparency in order help prevent fraud and abuse and to ensure that all children who attend a charter school receive the education they deserve. Finally, there are a number of high-quality charter schools in Ohio. These schools, like Breakthrough Schools in Cleveland and KIPP in Columbus, do an excellent job of educating students and should be commended for their efforts. We urge you to place restrictions on this grant funding to ensure that funds: 1) are only provided to charter school operators with a proven record of high performance and 2) are not used to finance a takeover of Ohio public school districts. We appreciate your attention to this matter and look forward to your response. Sincerely,
10.08.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today urged the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) to provide relief to the line pipe industry and its workers so that they can continue to compete now and into the future. The following testimony was submitted to the ITC regarding to the ongoing antidumping (AD) and countervailing duty (CVD) investigations on imports of Certain Welded Line Pipe from Korea and Turkey. Congressman Ryan was unable to appear at the final injury hearing today (October 6, 2015) and ask that this letter be entered into the hearing record. View PDF here. October 5, 2015 The Honorable Meredith Broadbent Chairman U.S. International Trade Commission 500 E Street SW Washington, DC 20436 Re: Certain Welded Line Pipe from Korea and Turkey Investigation Nos. 701-TA-524-525 and 731-TA-1260-1261 (Final) Dear Chairman Broadbent, I write with regard to the ongoing antidumping (AD) and countervailing duty (CVD) investigations on imports of Certain Welded Line Pipe from Korea and Turkey. I am unable to appear at the final injury hearing on October 6, 2015 and ask that this letter be entered into the hearing record. Last year I wrote to the Commission in support of this investigation as you prepared for the preliminary conference. At that time I expressed my views about the important role that the steel and steel pipe industry plays in our nation’s economy. The petitioners in this investigation represent the majority of domestic steel pipe manufacturers in this country and include two of my constituents in the district, Energex and TMK IPSCO. Over the past few years, Ohio has become one of the top steel producing states, but this position will be threatened if we continue to allow foreign countries to create an unfair playing field. My state needs these secure, well-paying jobs to help revive our community and region. Earlier this year the Commerce Department issued affirmative preliminary AD and CVD decisions and I understand that final margins will be announced on October 6, 2015. The outcome of this investigation will determine what the future will hold for the domestic steel line pipe industry. A negative ruling can lead to bankruptcies, plant closures, and the loss of thousands of jobs. Unfortunately since the time of filing these cases the industry has been forced to make difficult decisions and the surge in imports from Korea and Turkey have continued. This has resulted in a record number of plant idling, layoffs, furloughs and closures in the industry. You will hear from the domestic industry leaders about how severe this import crisis has been on the industry and its workers and why it is important that they receive relief from these unfair trade practices. This steel pipe product is a critical component to our nation’s energy infrastructure and companies in Ohio and across the country are prepared to serve this sector of the economy. However, as I know too well, year after year these companies are fighting off the imports that carve away at the backbone of this country’s manufacturing sector. Frankly, these practices have to stop and the only solution is to ensure that the trade laws provide the results needed to ensure that domestic line pipe producers can compete in the global arena. Our country’s economy has been strengthened by the contributions made by American manufacturers and workers. This is true in my state of Ohio, where multiple generations of steelworkers have worked to be part of the American dream. In fact, I have met many of these workers and their families over the years and I know how much they rely on the ability to be part of an industry where everyone plays by the rules. These workers are the fabric of this nation’s highly skilled and committed workforce that make products that are vital to this nation’s economic growth. This is true for the line pipe industry and its workers that serve the energy sector. Ohio has some of the most talented and highly productive workers in the world, and all they have ever asked for is a level-playing field. Your decision can take us one step closer to making that happen. I ask that you continue to support American workers and do everything in your power to find that these imports undermine and threaten the best interests of U.S. industries. I do hope that the Commission will take action to ensure that the line pipe industry and its workers receive the relief necessary to compete now and into the future. Thank you for the opportunity to provide my comments in support of relief for the industry and its workers. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
10.06.2015	Akron, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan announces $6 million in federal funds to scientists from the University of Akron, Huston Methodist Research Institute and Texas A&M University from the U.S. Army Medical Research and Materials Command to advance their work in this limb-salvage technique. Soldiers wounded by gunshots and improvised explosive devices (IEDs) may soon be treated with a novel limb-saving procedure. The surgery involves a cylinder-shaped polymeric shell that stabilizes the site of injury while the missing bone regenerates. “The University of Akron and Matthew Becker’s remarkable work will one day help our returning wounded warriors receive innovative limb-saving procedures. This treatment will change the lives of thousands of Americans who selflessly put themselves in harm’s way in service to our nation. As a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, I am proud to have been able to assist in bringing this important funding back to our community and look forward to seeing this project come to fruition,” says Rep. Tim Ryan. The UA team led by Matthew Becker, professor of polymer science, has shown unprecedented results in bone regeneration during a two-year pilot study. Their investigation involved the use of a biodegradable polymer scaffold that bridges the injured bone site, stabilizes the area of missing bone and stimulates bone regrowth in it. The shell is filled with decellularized collagen developed at Houston Methodist Research Institute. “This is an ambitious effort to repair large bone defects caused by IEDs and to reduce limb loss in wounded soldiers,” Becker says. He explains that the fractured ends of a broken bone are inserted into opposite sides of the tube-shaped scaffold where new bone forms. The scaffold, or shell, has an osteoconductive effect that generates new bone growth, stabilizes the injury site quickly, and induces limb healing and function. The polymer scaffold “would have been a game-changer in civilian accidents like the Boston Marathon bombing,” says Becker, who anticipates that initial materials will be ready for military trials in wounded soldiers by next spring. A scenario would look something like this: A soldier in the Middle East endures a traumatic IED or gunshot injury. He or she is then flown to Germany for a CAT scan to characterize the injury. Then, while en route to the United States for the limb-saving procedure, a scaffold customized according to the patient’s CT results is prepared for the limb salvage surgery. “This could be a transformative advance,” Becker says, noting that the device and procedure have the potential to spare injured military members — those with enough remaining bone and soft tissue — from limb amputation. Becker’s team developed the polymer-based scaffold while researchers at Houston Methodist Research Institute conducted preclinical trials. Texas A&M scientists studied the biomechanics of the newly developed limbs in these studies. With the new award, the polymer synthesis will be scaled up with the assistance of Akron Polymer Systems and the finished shells for use in humans will be molded by Cook Biotech located in West Layfaette, Ind.
10.06.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today urged the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) to provide relief to the line pipe industry and its workers so that they can continue to compete now and into the future. The following testimony was submitted to the ITC regarding to the ongoing antidumping (AD) and countervailing duty (CVD) investigations on imports of Certain Welded Line Pipe from Korea and Turkey. Congressman Ryan was unable to appear at the final injury hearing today (October 6, 2015) and ask that this letter be entered into the hearing record. View PDF here. October 5, 2015 The Honorable Meredith Broadbent Chairman U.S. International Trade Commission 500 E Street SW Washington, DC 20436 Re: Certain Welded Line Pipe from Korea and Turkey Investigation Nos. 701-TA-524-525 and 731-TA-1260-1261 (Final) Dear Chairman Broadbent, I write with regard to the ongoing antidumping (AD) and countervailing duty (CVD) investigations on imports of Certain Welded Line Pipe from Korea and Turkey. I am unable to appear at the final injury hearing on October 6, 2015 and ask that this letter be entered into the hearing record. Last year I wrote to the Commission in support of this investigation as you prepared for the preliminary conference. At that time I expressed my views about the important role that the steel and steel pipe industry plays in our nation’s economy. The petitioners in this investigation represent the majority of domestic steel pipe manufacturers in this country and include two of my constituents in the district, Energex and TMK IPSCO. Over the past few years, Ohio has become one of the top steel producing states, but this position will be threatened if we continue to allow foreign countries to create an unfair playing field. My state needs these secure, well-paying jobs to help revive our community and region. Earlier this year the Commerce Department issued affirmative preliminary AD and CVD decisions and I understand that final margins will be announced on October 6, 2015. The outcome of this investigation will determine what the future will hold for the domestic steel line pipe industry. A negative ruling can lead to bankruptcies, plant closures, and the loss of thousands of jobs. Unfortunately since the time of filing these cases the industry has been forced to make difficult decisions and the surge in imports from Korea and Turkey have continued. This has resulted in a record number of plant idling, layoffs, furloughs and closures in the industry. You will hear from the domestic industry leaders about how severe this import crisis has been on the industry and its workers and why it is important that they receive relief from these unfair trade practices. This steel pipe product is a critical component to our nation’s energy infrastructure and companies in Ohio and across the country are prepared to serve this sector of the economy. However, as I know too well, year after year these companies are fighting off the imports that carve away at the backbone of this country’s manufacturing sector. Frankly, these practices have to stop and the only solution is to ensure that the trade laws provide the results needed to ensure that domestic line pipe producers can compete in the global arena. Our country’s economy has been strengthened by the contributions made by American manufacturers and workers. This is true in my state of Ohio, where multiple generations of steelworkers have worked to be part of the American dream. In fact, I have met many of these workers and their families over the years and I know how much they rely on the ability to be part of an industry where everyone plays by the rules. These workers are the fabric of this nation’s highly skilled and committed workforce that make products that are vital to this nation’s economic growth. This is true for the line pipe industry and its workers that serve the energy sector. Ohio has some of the most talented and highly productive workers in the world, and all they have ever asked for is a level-playing field. Your decision can take us one step closer to making that happen. I ask that you continue to support American workers and do everything in your power to find that these imports undermine and threaten the best interests of U.S. industries. I do hope that the Commission will take action to ensure that the line pipe industry and its workers receive the relief necessary to compete now and into the future. Thank you for the opportunity to provide my comments in support of relief for the industry and its workers. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
10.05.2015	
10.05.2015	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today in response to United States Trade Representative Trans-Pacific Partnership “Deal in Principal” announced today in Atlanta: I am deeply disappointed in today’s announced deal on the Trans-Pacific Partnership. All we have to do is look at the shuttered factories across Ohio to know what past trade deals have done to our communities. This broad and overarching 12-country deal makes up 40% of the world’s GDP and gives corporations wide-ranging powers to challenge federal law. Free trade without fair trade threatens manufacturing, innovation and inevitably leads to hundreds of thousands of American jobs being shipped overseas. Time and time again, we have seen how secretive trade agreements destroyed economic wellbeing in our state and across the nation. Almost on a daily basis, I am confronted with stories from my constituents whose lives has been negatively impacted by past trade agreements. All these hardworking Americans ask for is a level playing field so they can get the compensation they deserve – but TPP does not live up to these basic standards.
10.05.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan requested a copy of the original grant application from the United States Department of Education today that resulted in a $71 million in federal funds for the Ohio charter school system. Congressman Ryan made this request with intention to gain a better understanding of the focus and goals for the money. View the text of the letter below or the PDF here. On October 1, 2015, Congressman Ryan urged the Department of Education to place stringent restrictions on this disbursement – more information can be found here. October 5, 2015 The Honorable Arne Duncan Secretary United States Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue, SW Washington, D.C. 20202 Dear Secretary Duncan: Last week, the Ohio Department of Education was awarded a $71 million grant for its charter school system. I have already expressed in a previous letter my concern regarding this allocation and urged your Department to place stringent restrictions on the disbursement. As Ohio moves forward in how to implement this award, I would like to request a copy of the original grant application to gain a better understanding of the focus and goals for the money. As a member on the House Appropriations Committee, one of my key duties is to promote accountability in the budget and be a careful steward of my constituents’ tax dollars. However, Ohio’s charter schools are currently going through a period of uncertainty and need proper oversight and transparency to ensure success for Ohio’s children. The grant application will allow me to recognize and understand how the Ohio Department of Education plans to use this money and how it will impact the schools in my district. Thank you in advance for the time and attention you will give this matter. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
10.02.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan urged Governor John Kasich today to include Trumbull and Mahoning Counties in the State of Ohio’s request of a time limit waiver for Supplemental Nutrition Aid Program. View the PDF here. October 2, 2015 The Honorable John R. Kasich Governor, State of Ohio Riffe Center, 30th Floor 77 South High Street Columbus, OH 43215 Dear Governor Kasich, I am writing to express my strong disappointment in your decision to exclude many eligible areas, including Youngstown and Warren, in your request of a time limit waiver for Supplemental Nutrition Aid Program. It is disheartening to know that this waiver does not include almost 70 percent of those men and women who lost their food aid in the last two years. As you are aware, the Supplemental Nutrition Aid Program (SNAP) stipulates that waivers may be requested to extend the time limit for adults who are not elderly, disabled or parents with custody of minor children during time of economic recession. A city or county is eligible if its unemployment rate during 2013 and 2014 was at least 20 percent above the national average of 6.8 percent, this would make Youngstown, Warren and Trumbull County eligible for this aid. As public officials we should be doing everything in our power to make sure the people we represent never go hungry. Ohio is currently ranked 3rd in the nation for families forced to skip meals or eat less because they don’t have the money or resources to put food on the table. In Mahoning Valley alone, 92,000 people are food insecure, meaning that 1 in 4 children in the area are experiencing food insecurity. There is no reason why these areas should not be included in the waiver to extend time limits and give these people who are struggling the flexibility and resources necessary to not go hungry. I strongly encourage you to reconsider extending the waiver to include all Ohio constituents living in eligible areas. It is my belief that no person should go hungry, and by making these changes we can help the lives of many Ohioans. I stand ready to provide you with any additional information you might require. Thank you in advance for the time and attention you will give this matter. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
10.01.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan urged the United States Department of Education Secretary Arne Duncan to put in place stringent restrictions on the disbursement of the $71 million recently awarded to the State of Ohio for its charter school system. View the PDF here. October 1, 2015 The Honorable Arne Duncan Secretary United States Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue, SW Washington, D.C. 20202 Dear Secretary Duncan: I am writing today to urge you to put in place stringent restrictions on the disbursement of $71 million your Department recently awarded to the State of Ohio for its charter school system. My district is home to many charter schools that are dedicated to improving the lives of their students. However, I have strong reservations about the current oversight procedures of the charter school program in Ohio and how the State will use these federal funds. Ohio Department of Education School Choice Director, David Hansen, was forced to resign in July due to his mishandling of evaluations of charter-school sponsors. Furthermore, the Ohio House and Ohio Senate still have to pass a final version of the charter school reform legislation. As Ohio Department of Education responds to these ongoing changes to the current system, I call on the U.S. Department of Education to work with the State of Ohio to make sure the proper oversight and transparency are in place to ensure accountability and success before federal taxpayer funds are distributed to an Ohio program that has so far failed in providing effective oversight. There is no denying that Ohio’s charter school oversight system is not working. Earlier this month, Ohio Auditor Dave Yost said that the Ohio’s charter schools were part of a “broken system” and that the state needed “real reform”. Parents should not be the only ones worrying if their children are getting the education they deserve – our state government has the responsibility to ensure that Ohio students are not being underserved by their schools. The federal Charter Schools Program was created to raise awareness about charter schools and expand the number of high-quality charter schools available to students. Mr. Secretary I know that you and I agree that federal funds must be usefully applied to effective programs and not given to a “broken system.” I stand ready to provide you with any additional information you might require. Thank you in advance for the time and attention you will give this matter. I look forward to hearing what measures you will put in place to prevent these federal funds from going into a charter school system rife with oversight problems. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
09.30.2015	Washington, DC – Ohio’s Democratic Congressional Delegation today urges Speaker John Boehner to act upon many of the outstanding issues that Congress still needs to pass – highlighting his unique opportunity to do so without regard to those in the Republican Caucus who choose to engage in obstructionism instead of governance. View PDF here. September 30, 2015 The Honorable John Boehner Speaker U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 2015 Dear Speaker Boehner: As your fellow Ohioans, we want to express our appreciation for your years of service to our country and the State of Ohio. While we have not always agreed on the path forward for our nation, we respect your dedication to keep the government functioning during a time of great uncertainty. With the announcement of your resignation, you have been given a unique opportunity to act upon many of the outstanding issues that Congress needs to pass without regard to those in your Republican Caucus who choose instead to engage in obstructionism. We call on you—and stand ready to work with you—to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank. The Export-Import Bank plays a critical role in U.S. trade by allowing American companies to compete in foreign markets. It has supported 350 Ohio businesses and 1.3 million jobs nationally since 2007. Democrats will work with you to pass a long-term transportation and infrastructure funding bill. The current piecemeal approach to funding our transportation and infrastructure programs has cost America over 900,000 jobs – specifically more than 97,000 manufacturing jobs. America requires a robust and improved transportation system to help compete in this global economy. Sequestration took $284 million out of Ohio’s budget in 2013, negatively impacting local communities, Head Start programs, public health programs, and other important social services. If we do not remove these caps, funding cuts will be felt all throughout Ohio from feeding the underprivileged to research funding at Ohio’s public universities. We urge you to work with Democrats in Congress, Senate leadership and the Obama Administration to undo the harmful austerity imposed by sequestration. We also ask that you allow a vote to reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund. The LWCF fund is set to expire this week. This important fund has supported billions of dollars in revenue around the country and supports more than 6 million jobs – while working to preserve our state and nation’s natural resources. Lastly, we urge you to allow a vote on the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative Act. The GLRI Act provides authorization for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative—a results-driven program that strategically targets the biggest threats to the Great Lakes. We urge you to work with your fellow Republican and Democrat colleagues to move forward on these issues. We appreciate the time and effort you will give to this important request and look forward to working with you to pass and enact these imperative measures. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress Marcy Kaptur Member of Congress Joyce Beatty Member of Congress Marcia Fudge Member of Congress
09.30.2015	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan today announces $420,000 for the Youngstown Neighborhood Development Corporation (YNDC) from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Community Economic Development Opportunity for the YNDC REVITALIZE project. Since its inception, the REVITALIZE project uses effective strategies developed by YNDC to stabilize neighborhoods through strategic reinvestment. Repurposing vacant property and engaging and employing residents in the process have created dozens of jobs and have turned formerly distressed neighborhoods into communities where opportunity and choice now exist. “Over the last five years, this project has proven to be effective in addressing our vacant property crisis. Through this funding, YNDC will be able to continue to repurpose vacant property, strengthen the housing market and improve quality of life in neighborhoods across Youngstown – all while creating jobs in the Valley,” said Congressman Ryan. “I applaud YNDC and its partners for their hard work and commitment to improving our community – I stand ready to do everything in my power to continue bringing these types of federal resources back home.” In April of 2015, Congressman Ryan voiced his support for this program and urged the Department of Health and Human Services to give this project strong consideration and to approve this funding. Read the full letter here.
09.30.2015	Washington, DC – Representatives Tim Ryan (OH-13) and Nita Lowey (NY-17) introduce the Gluten in Medicine Identification Act, which makes it easier to identify gluten in pharmaceutical products. This legislation requires drugs intended for humans use labels contain a statement identifying the source of any ingredient constituting or derived from a grain or starch-containing ingredient. “People need to be able to trust that the medicine they are prescribed will improve their health, not worsen it,” said Representative Ryan. “Celiac disease is a growing issue in our country and those suffering have the right to know if their medicine contains ingredients that are adverse to their health. I am proud to introduce legislation that will help prevent the serious health risks and frustrations that Americans suffering from this disease are forced to deal with on a daily basis. These men and women are simply asking for the information they need to protect their health and wellbeing, and as Members of Congress we owe them this clarity.” “Americans deserve to know what is in their food and drugs. Providing uniform standards for food and drug labeling will make a world of difference to the quality of life for people with celiac disease. I wrote the Food Allergen Labeling and Consumer Protection Act because I wanted to help millions of people coping with food allergies and related health challenges. We now need clear labels on drugs that contain gluten, so millions of Americans can have peace of mind that the positive effect of their medicine isn’t counteracted by ingredients harmful to them," said Representative Lowey. “With FDA labeling requirements for gluten-free foods now secured, Celiac Disease Foundation (CDF) is pleased to support Representative Tim Ryan and Congresswoman Lowey’s Gluten in Medicine Disclosure Act,” said Marilyn G. Geller, Chief Executive Officer of Celiac Disease Foundation (CDF). “The celiac disease community should be able to take both prescription and non-prescription medicines with as much confidence as possible that it will improve our quality of life. Without this legislation, that confidence is missing.” According to the Mayo Clinic, celiac disease has increased as much as four times in the last decade. Celiac disease is an immune-mediated chronic inflammatory disorder triggered by the ingestion of gluten or wheat grain products, affecting primarily the small intestine. The Food Allergen Labeling Consumer Protection Act of 2004 required packaged food labels to identify all ingredients containing wheat and other allergens, but this important distinction is missing from medicine labels. The lack of information regarding gluten in medicine is troubling for people who suffer from this disease. The standard treatment for celiac disease is the elimination of gluten-containing products, including wheat, barley, or rye sources. For some individuals, failure to avoid these sources can cause life-threatening complications. Unfortunately, this can be nearly impossible when it comes to the presence of gluten in medicine. The lack of proper labeling to inform the average consumer or pharmacist about the presence of gluten can cause confusion, delay in taking the medicine, and unintentional digestion of gluten.
09.25.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement on the resignation of Speaker John Boehner: There is no doubt that over the years, my Ohio colleague, Speaker Boehner and I have disagreed on the direction of our nation, but I have always believed that he tried to do what was best for the United States of America and the State of Ohio. I like him and I respect what he tried to do to bring compromise and unity to the Congress. Unfortunately his attempts fell on deaf ears because from day one, his Speakership has been hobbled by a deeply divided Republican Party and an extremist group of Tea Party members who are determined to prevent the government from operating. Speaker Boehner stepping down is sadly a victory for the Tea Party, but a more conservative leadership will not solve any of America’s problems and will only further lead our nation down the wrong path. This reflects the complete chaos of the current Republican party. Our country and its’ citizens deserve better. I wish Speaker Boehner all the best in his next endeavor.
09.24.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan, Chairman of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus, made the following statement in response to the 2014 Ohio Drug Overdose Preliminary Data Report released today by the Ohio Department of Health. The data shows that unintentional drug overdoses caused the deaths of 2,482 Ohio residents last year. This is the highest number of deaths on record from drug overdose and reflects a 17.6 percent increase compared to 2013 when there were 2,110 drug overdose deaths. “I am heartbroken to hear how many Ohioans lost their lives last year to substance abuse, unfortunately this epidemic only continues to grow in our state. Last year in Summit County 56 people died from heroin overdose – and in just one week in Trumbull County, 7 people died from overdose,” said Congressman Ryan. “Addiction is a disease, and the people suffering need care just like anyone else who gets sick in this country, yet only 1 out of 10 Americans who suffers from substance abuse gets treated. It is critical that we get serious about this issue and work together to begin to stem the tide. We cannot afford to do nothing.” The increased illicit use of a powerful opioid called fentanyl was a significant contributor to this rise in drug overdose deaths. Fentanyl has been observed being mixed with other commonly abused drugs, such as heroin, resulting in increased deaths between 2005 and 2007, and it seems to be reemerging in the U.S. Drug reports about fentanyl based on law enforcement drug seizures increased by 300 percent in the U.S. from the second half of 2013 to the first half of 2014. This increase was especially pronounced in the South, Northeast and Midwest. Most often used to treat patients with severe pain, fentanyl is a Schedule II synthetic narcotic that in its prescription form is estimated to be 30 to 50 times more potent than heroin and 50 to 100 times more potent than morphine. The 2014 Ohio Drug Overdose Preliminary Data Report can be found here.
09.24.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to the Address to Congress by Pope Francis: Today I was in the presence of a holy and pious man who is calling us to be more concerned for others than for ourselves. Pope Francis called upon all Americans to be more aware of what our current policies are doing to the most vulnerable people not just in our country, but around the world. We as legislators were called to ensure that what we do here is for the common good of all, especially for those men and women who need it the most. The Holy Father challenged all Americans to adhere to the Golden Rule: To treat others as we would like to be treated. This small change in behavior can help us renew our commitment to each other and to the common good of all mankind. Pope Francis stands in stark contrast to the political tone that we see in our country today. Using the examples of four Americans, Abraham Lincoln, Martin Luther King, Jr., Dorothy Day and Thomas Merton, we were called to be defenders of liberty and to follow their example for creating a better future. Our response to the problems of the present must be one of hope and healing, peace and justice. Our work—and the work of people around the world, is to restore hope – right wrongs—and promote the well-being of all individuals. It is my hope that Pope Francis’ visit to the United States, and especially this historic address to Congress, will encourage Congress to work together in pursuing a "culture of care" and “restoring dignity to the excluded.”
09.22.2015	Akron, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan announces $906,511 to the Akron International Chemical Workers Union to support the development of model programs for the training and education of workers engaged in activities related to hazardous materials and waste generation, removal, containment, transportation and emergency response within the Department of Energy (DOE) Nuclear Weapons Complex. This funding was made available through the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS). “I applaud the Akron International Chemical Workers Union for securing this funding to implement the necessary training programs to ensure workers in our community are safe and secure. I will continue to fight for investments for our communities that will help hardworking Americans get the training they need to do their jobs efficiently and effectively,” said Congressman Ryan. The major objective of this solicitation is to prevent work related harm by assisting in the training and education of workers in the DOE nuclear weapons complex. Safety and health training will transmit skills and knowledge to workers in how best to protect themselves and their communities from exposure to hazardous materials encountered during hazardous waste operations, facility decommissioning and decontamination, hazardous materials transportation, environmental restoration of contaminated facilities or chemical emergency response. Proper use of resources will result in federal and contractor employees who are highly skilled and capable of carrying out our critical missions in a safe and reliable manner consistent with recognized standards of excellence.
09.22.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan is announcing $7,327,433 for Ohio Police Departments to fund 58 new police officers, with $625,000 to Austintown, Barberton and Boardman Police Departments. These funds were made available through the U.S. Department of Justice’s COPS Hiring Program. “I am pleased to announce that these funds will allow our communities to hire additional law enforcement officers and ensure the protection and security of our families and friends," said Congressman Tim Ryan. "At a time when our local municipalities are continuing to be squeezed by budget cuts in Columbus and Washington DC, it is still important that our towns have the protection they need. The positive impact these funds have on our communities, highlights how disappointing it was that next year’s funding bill for the Department of Justice included NO funding for the COPS Hiring Program. We must do more to make sure our neighborhoods are safe.” Austintown: $125,000 (1 Officer Funded) Barberton: $250,000 (2 Officers Funded) Boardman: $250,000 (2 Officers Funded) Approximately $107 million in grant funding was appropriated for this initiative through the FY 2015 Appropriations Act – Congressman Ryan is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. The COPS Hiring Program is designed to advance public safety through community policing by addressing the full-time sworn officer needs of state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies nationwide. This program provides funds directly to law enforcement agencies to hire new or rehire career law enforcement officers and to increase their community policing capacity and crime prevention efforts.
09.22.2015	Washington, DC – Representatives Tim Ryan and Paul Tonko, Co-Chair and Vice-Chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus made the following statements in recognition of National Alcohol and Drug Addiction Recovery Month: “I am pleased to commemorate National Alcohol and Drug Addiction Recovery Month, which demonstrates that recovery from addiction is possible. It is hard to escape the current news reports of the growing heroin and prescription drug abuse epidemic that we are experiencing across the country. But those who are suffering from addiction should be reassured that recovery is possible and that it can be successfully treated when given access to the right services,” said Rep. Ryan. “As Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus, I know how important it is to make sure every person who wants help receives quality and affordable treatment for substance abuse. As a community we must come together to educate and raise awareness about addiction issues in hope of decreasing the negative stigma that continues to exist today. I would like to extend all my hope and support for those who are continuing to struggle with substance abuse as they move forward on this difficult journey.” “September is a month to reflect on the progress we have made to ensure recovery from addiction is possible in every corner of our nation – but it is also a time to take stock of the hurdles that await us. As we work to bring awareness to emerging challenges and advance prevention and treatment in the addiction community, I look forward to working with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to provide the resources that individuals, families and health care professionals need to live healthy and rewarding lives. This National Alcohol and Drug Addiction Recovery Month, let’s advertise our victories as well as where we’ve fallen short – so that we may inspire those struggling to overcome their challenges and turn past failures into future success,” said Rep. Tonko.
09.22.2015	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan announces $76,772 for the Liberty Fire Department. This Operations and Safety Grant was made available through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Department of Homeland Security. “This is great news for the firefighters working to protect our community,” said Congressman Ryan. “It is imperative that we make safety a necessity when it comes to the firefighters who put their life on the line every day. These types of federal grants are important to ensure that local fire departments have the resources they need to keep our community safe. I will continue to fight to bring these grants to Northeast Ohio.” The primary goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service organizations. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders to obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards.
09.18.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement after voting against the Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015 (HR 3134): I am extremely disappointed that Congressional Republicans have yet again prioritized politics over governing. Today’s actions to defund Planned Parenthood are a slap in the face and a harmful assault on the 2.7 million women and men across the country and 56,939 in Ohio rely on these centers for women’s heath exams, lifesaving cancer screenings, sexually transmitted infection (STI) testing and treatment, birth control and advice on family planning. The Akron Planned Parenthood alone sees 7,100 patients a year, most of whom are young and poor. Akron’s clinicians administer 3,400 pregnancy tests, write 2,900 prescriptions for birth control and provide 13,200 screenings for STIs. Under NO circumstances should we be politicizing an organization that does so much for those most in need right here in our community. Ohio’s infant mortality rate is 23% higher than the national average, with 6 infant deaths per 1000 births among white families and 13.8 deaths per 1,000 births among black families. These statistics are tragic, and there is no question that we need to do more for the reproductive health of our state. Congressional Republicans should be ashamed of themselves today.
09.15.2015	Tallmadge, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan announces $119,552 for Shelter Care, Inc. in Tallmadge, Ohio. This grant will fund the Street Outreach Services program, which addresses the needs of runaway, homeless and street youth by providing outreach services to help young people leave the streets and transition to a safe living arrangement. “The number of homeless youth in Ohio has more than doubled over the last decade, and if we do not act that number will continue to grow,” said Congressman Ryan. “I am happy to support the work of Shelter Care and congratulate them on receiving these important funds.” This funding was provided through the Department of Health and Human Services Administration for Children and Families – Family and Youth Services Bureau.
09.15.2015	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan today urged Jeffrey Immelt, Chairman and CEO of General Electric to reconsider Cincinnati and the state of Ohio for its corporate headquarters. Congressman Ryan sent the following letter after reports arose over the weekend that General Electric decided not to move its headquarters to Cincinnati due to the opposition of the Export-Import Bank by. Governor Kasich and Republican members of Ohio’s congressional delegation. Mr. Jeffrey Immelt Chairman and CEO General Electric 3135 Easton Turnpike Fairfield, Connecticut 06828 Dear Mr. Immelt, I am deeply disappointed by news reports that General Electric will not move its headquarters to Cincinnati because of the opposition to the Export-Import Bank by Ohio’s Governor and Republican Members of our Congressional delegation. I assure you that these elected officials’ position does not reflect the majority of leaders in our great state. I am disappointed that Speaker John Boehner, while supporting the reauthorization, cannot convince enough members of his own party to be able to pass this important initiative. Many leading Democrats, Republican officials and private sector business owners all support the reauthorization of this agency – as well as other policies that benefit American exporters. The Export-Import Bank plays a critical role in U.S. trade by allowing American companies to compete in foreign markets and has supported 350 Ohio businesses and 1.3 million jobs nationally since 2007. I was deeply disappointed when the Export-Import Bank authority lapsed due to the failure of Congress to extend the bank’s charter. This has put American companies at a devastating disadvantage in global markets. The Export-Import Bank is an important part of the U.S. economy that we simply cannot do without. I respectfully ask General Electric to reconsider Cincinnati for its corporate headquarters. While Cincinnati is not in my district, having GE's headquarters there would make a huge impact in Southwest Ohio and throughout our state. And should GE specifically want to be located in a Congressional District represented by a Member of Congress that supports the Export-Import Bank, I would welcome the opportunity to show you the thriving technology companies, research institutions, extensive manufacturing supply chain and high quality of life in Ohio’s 13th Congressional District. Respectfully, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
09.15.2015	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to the United States Department of Energy’s announcement to end Piketon uranium enrichment project’s contract: I am deeply disappointed by the Department of Energy and this decision that will be devastating to the Piketon community and will put hundreds out of work in southeastern Ohio. As a member of the Appropriations Committee I supported the inclusion of $100 million in funding for the American Centrifuge Project next year, which passed the House but never got a vote in the Senate – unfortunately current funding is set to run out at the end of the month. I will continue to work with the Ohio business community to do everything in our power to ensure that the Piketon facility can continue to do its important work and transition to operate commercially.
09.10.2015	Washington, DC— Congressman Tim Ryan announces that Ohio’s 13th Congressional District has received $61,000 in federal funds to purchase 182 Bulletproof Vests. This grant was made available through the United States Department of Justice’s Bullet Proof Vest Partnership Program. “I’m proud this funding is coming back home and giving our law enforcement officers the protection they need to continue safely serving our community,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “These men and women put their lives on the line day in and day out, and it is our responsibility to give them the equipment they need so that they can do their job safely.” Fiscal Year 2015 Bulletproof Vest funds for the 13th District of Ohio: YoungstownAmount: $12,205.99 Vests: 30 WarrenAmount: $5,648.23 Vests: 20 Warren TownshipAmount: $2,020.19 Vests: 6 Austintown TownshipAmount: $3,709.71 Vests: 10 KentAmount: $2,268.91 Vests: 8 AllianceAmount: $2,154.02 Vests: 6 BarbertonAmount: $8,424.10 Vests: 22 Lordstown VillageAmount: $1,416.85 Vests: 4 Cuyahoga FallsAmount: $3,111.37 Vests: 13 Weathersfield TownshipAmount: $5,294.11 Vests: 14 Fowler TownshipAmount: $4,784.80 Vests: 14 Windham VillageAmount: $2,115.73 Vests: 10 Liberty TownshipAmount: $3,123.33 Vests: 9 Champion TownshipAmount: $2,489.09 Vests: 8 Bazetta TownshipAmount: $1,936.23 Vests: 5 StruthersAmount: $560.05 Vests: 2 TallmadgeAmount: $348.45 Vests: 1 The Bulletproof Vest Partnership (BVP), created by the Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Act of 1998 is a unique U.S. Department of Justice initiative designed to provide a critical resource to state and local law enforcement. Since 1999, the BVP program has awarded more than 13,000 jurisdictions, a total of $393 million in federal funds for the purchase of over one million vests (1,197,348 as of December, 2014). BVP is a critical resource for state and local jurisdictions that saves lives. Based on data collected and recorded by BJA staff, in FY 2012, protective vests were directly attributable to saving the lives of at least 33 law enforcement and corrections officers, in 20 different states, an increase 13.7% over FY 2011. At least 14 of those life-saving vests had been purchased, in part, with BVP funds.
09.10.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan announces today $195,616 in federal funding to the Ohio Department of Education/Office for Child Nutrition (ODE/OCN) to collaborate with statewide partners to provide technical assistance and training to schools seeking recognition under the Healthier US School Challenge: Smarter Lunchrooms initiative through their Buckeye Healthy Schools Workshop. ODE/OCN will also award sub-grants to schools to develop recipes for the Buckeye Healthy Schools Recipe Challenge. “For the past three decades, childhood obesity rates in America have tripled, and today, nearly one in three children in America are overweight or obese. Increasing fresh and local food in our schools and training our school food service professionals to serve healthy, appealing meals to our students is crucial for addressing our nation’s obesity and diabetes epidemics, especially in children. Good eating habits start at a young age and it is our job to ensure that our young people know how to keep themselves healthy,” said Congressman Ryan. “We are pleased that Ohio is one of 19 states to receive a fiscal year 2015 USDA Team Nutrition training grant. This grant is an exciting opportunity to improve the nutrition and health of Ohio’s school-age children and children in child care settings. Through this grant, the Ohio Department of Education will provide school food service professionals with vital training and resources needed to serve students healthy and appealing meals. It will also enhance the nutrition expertise of child care providers, so they can help our youngest children develop healthy eating habits,” said Tim English, Regional Administrator for USDA’s Food and Nutrition Service. In addition, ODE/OCN will develop a Healthy Cuisine for Child Care Culinary Lab to train eight child care trainers and six chefs. These trainers and chefs will then provide 21 regional hands-on labs for child care providers. This funding was made available through a United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) program that awarded $8 million in grants to help school nutrition professionals better prepare healthy meals for their students. Approximately $2.6 million dollars in grants will support the implementation of new national professional standards for all school nutrition employees who manage and operate the National School Lunch and School Breakfast Programs, and $5.6 million will go to help states expand and enhance food service training programs and provide nutrition education in school, child care, and summer meal settings. Congressman Ryan is dedicated to providing children with healthier food options at schools. In the 114th Congress, he introduced the Salad Bar in Schools Expansion Act (HR 2627). This legislation encourages the USDA to help schools set up a salad bar program, and directs the Secretary to establish and implement a plan to promote the use of salad bars in schools. Salad bars have proven to be one of easiest ways for school food authorities to meet school lunch nutrition standards and allow children to make their own choice regarding their daily meals. This legislation has been endorsed by the United Fresh Produce Association, Coalition for Healthy School Food, Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, the American Heart Association, The Ohio State University, American Diabetes Association, Ohio Produce Growers and Marketing Association, the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, Real Food for Kids, U.S. Apple Association, National Potato Council, and the National Watermelon Association.
09.09.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in support of the Iran Nuclear Agreement: I was honored to travel to Israel during my time in Congress and saw firsthand the constant threat the people of Israel are faced with each and every day. I will never forget standing on the borders of the country, looking out and gaining a deeper understanding of the dangers and risks that exist. Iran’s nuclear capability is a matter of life and death for Israel; and for that reason, this agreement has rightly been a passionate issue for so many in the United States and across the world. It is with this understanding that I approached my decision on the Iran Nuclear Agreement. Since its announcement, I have taken the time to carefully review the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), hear from my constituents, receive classified briefings and discuss both sides of this agreement with officials and experts. This deal is not perfect and I have not arrived at my decision lightly, but after careful consideration, I believe this agreement is our best available option to prevent Iran from building a nuclear weapon, stringently monitor any nuclear activities with an independent, respected international agency and implement this deal with the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Russia and China as our partners. Most importantly for me, because I don't trust Iran, supporting this deal strongly positions America should Iran violate this agreement and continue to pursue a nuclear program. If we give diplomacy a chance, and Iran violates the agreement, we will have the support and backing of the international community. There is now a bright line and should Iran cross it immediate sanctions will return to their economy from all of these countries and, if needed, incur the wrath of the international community led by the United States. This approach puts us on the moral high ground and aligns us with the other large and powerful countries of the world. I am convinced that this is the smartest approach for our country. And from my position on the Defense Appropriations Committee, I stand ready to aggressively monitor Iran's compliance and make sure we are prepared to firmly and immediately respond to violations of the agreement. I am also convinced that if this agreement fails there will be no deal at all, which is why I will vote against legislative attempts to undermine this important deal. It is instructive to look at what happens should this deal fall through. America would be blamed by the world community for sinking the deal, the stiff sanctions would be removed and Iran would immediately restart its dangerous nuclear weapons program without anyone in the entire world monitoring their progress. In a matter of months America, probably acting alone, would have to take military action to stop Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. We would have lost the moral high ground because we didn't try diplomacy and the support of the international community would wane. Not trying diplomacy puts us in a bad strategic position, moves us closer to military action and all but assures that, if necessary, we would be combating Iran with a very small coalition. I spent much of my career in Congress dealing with the mess that was created by the U.S. going alone into the Iraq war: the lives lost, the veteran suicide rate, and the trillions in national debt we accumulated and passed to our children. I do not want to make that mistake again. I want to try to make peace and only choose war as a last resort. I was pleased to see that this agreement included an extension of Iran’s “breakout period,” the time it would take to acquire the material necessary to construct a nuclear weapon. It is currently believed to be between two and three months, and this agreement will extend that period to one full year, allowing the United States and the international community to better respond to a potential threat. Furthermore, the JCPOA commits Iran to a stringent and comprehensive monitoring system that allows the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to monitor Iran’s centrifuge facilities. The additional transparency and understanding will grant the international community access and a timely verification process regarding Iran’s actions. Without a deal this process will not exist. I have close friends on both sides of the issue, and they are people of high integrity and hold a deep concern for the greater good. I have a great deal of respect for those who are concerned about this deal, but in my judgement, this agreement gives the United States and the international community the best opportunity to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. I know firsthand how important the United States’ relationship with Israel is when it comes to both our nations’ national security. That is why I was reassured that the JCPOA preserves the continuation of sanctions arising from Iran’s non-nuclear activities, including their support of terrorist organizations and their numerous human rights abuses. We need to make sure these sanctions stay in place and others are adopted to make it even more difficult for money to get to these terrorist groups. There is no simple way to negotiate an international agreement or crack down on Iran’s nuclear program. I wish it was as easy as some bloviating politicians make it seem. After many years of diplomacy from both Secretaries of State Clinton and Kerry, two presidents, and the international community, this is our best chance for an agreement. We needed the assistance and support of the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Russia China, the United Nations, and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to accomplish this historic accord. Without the increased sanctions from these nations and the international community, Iran would never have come to the negotiating table and agreed to limit their growing nuclear program, which continued to grow even under the existing sanctions. Currently, Iran has over 19,000 centrifuges, most of these came while only the U.S. had sanctions on them. It was when the international community ramped up sanctions that production ceased. It's always better for a group of friends to surround a bully. The international community understands the importance of bringing Iran to the table to help create a deal that will not only limit Iran’s nuclear program but provide the transparency and verification necessary. But before we put American blood and treasure at risk, we need to give international diplomacy a chance to succeed. I am convinced that this deal is the best way forward to prevent Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons, ensuring the safety of Israel, and clearing the way for future interactions between the United States and Iran. Let's put America in the smartest and best position to deal with a regime we don't trust and to bravely lead a uncertain and fearful world.
09.04.2015	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan announces $940,000 per year, for the next four years, to the State of Ohio for prescription drug overdose prevention from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC). This funding has been made available through the new Prescription Drug Overdose Prevention for States program (PDO PfS). Ohio is one of 16 states funded to scale up interventions to address and reverse the prescription drug overdose epidemic that is causing harm to individuals, families, and communities throughout the United States. “Each day I turn on the news and hear another devastating story about a life taken too soon because of heroin or prescription drug abuse,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “I applaud this move to expand and enhance prevention. If we don’t address the causes, there will be no way to treat those suffering here in Ohio and across the nation. Prescription drug abuse is at an epidemic level in our state and it is clear that we need to do everything we can to begin to stem this dangerous tide.” For the next four years, CDC will award Ohio $940,000 per year to advance prevention on multiple fronts, tailoring interventions to fit the existing need within each state. States will be funded to: Enhance prescription drug monitoring programs Put prevention into action in hard-hit communities, by educating providers and patients about the risk of prescription drug overdose Work with health systems, insurers, and providers to help them make informed decisions related to prescribing pain medication Respond to new and emerging drug overdose issues through innovative projects, such as developing a new surveillance system or communications campaign The PDO PfS program is an important step toward helping states address this growing national epidemic. Since 1999, overdose deaths involving prescription opioids have quadrupled. More than 16,000 people died from prescription opioid overdoses in 2013. Heroin deaths have also been on the rise, with more than 8,000 overdose deaths involving heroin in 2013—a nearly three-fold increase since 2010. The amount of opioids prescribed and sold in the United States has increased four-fold since 1999, but there has not been an overall change in the amount of pain that Americans report. PDO PfS was a competitive announcement and in launching year one of this program, CDC was able to fund 16 out of the 34 states that applied. With the proposed increase of $48 million included in the President’s FY 2016 Budget request, CDC would stand equipped to expand this program to all 50 states for a truly national response to this troubling epidemic. If you’d like more information about CDC’s Prescription Drug Overdose activities, please see www.cdc.gov/DrugOverdose. Ohio Representatives Tim Ryan, Marcia Fudge and Marcy Kaptur introduced the Breaking Addiction Act of 2015 earlier this year to give states the flexibility to use federal Medicaid matching funds for mental health treatment. Click here to read the Breaking Addiction Act of 2015. Visit https://www.cms.gov/(link is external) to learn more about the new guidance and service delivery opportunities.
09.04.2015	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan announces $175,000 to the Youngstown Business Incubator (YBI) from the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) for the purchase of additive manufacturing and post-processing equipment. The total project cost of $350,000, with Youngstown State University providing cost-sharing funds in the amount of $175,000. “The Youngstown Business Incubator is the #1 university-affiliated incubator in the world for a reason. The amazing work being done at YBI is continuing bring energy and investment into our community and giving our young people opportunity to come back to live, work and raise their families right here at home,” said Congressman Ryan. “I congratulate YBI and YSU on their continued success and I am proud to stand with them as they lead Youngstown’s manufacturing renaissance.” The machines will be located in YBI’s Tech Block Building Five, the former Vindicator Building in downtown Youngstown, Ohio where they will be used to serve client firms operating in the advanced manufacturing sector and for YSU student education and training purposes. The equipment is expected to help create nine new jobs and leverage $500,000 in private investment. YBI received a $3 million award from the Economic Development Administration in September of 2014 to fully renovate the former Vindicator Building. Congressman Tim Ryan wrote a letter of support to the U.S. Department of Commerce on May 28, 2014 for this project and its funding. Read the full letter here. In Steptember of 2014, YBI was ranked the #1 University Affiliated Incubator in the World by the UBI Index of Stockholm Sweden.
09.04.2015	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan announces $3,533,003 from the National Science Foundation for a Northern Ohio collaborative research program. Case Western Reserve University, Kent State University, the University of Akron, the University of Toledo, Youngstown State University, Bowling Green University and Cleveland State University will collaborate to create the Northern Ohio Alliance for Graduate Education and the Professoriate (NOA-AGEP): A Racially and Ethnically Inclusive Graduate Education Model in Biology, Chemistry and Engineering (BCE). These alliance schools will also partner with Central State University and Tuskegee University. “I applaud these universities for collaborating to create a graduate education model that works for all Northern Ohio students,” said Tim Ryan. “Education is the foundation of our nation’s future. Every dollar we spend on education is a direct investment in our economy and the next generations of Americans.” Breakdown of Award Distribution: Youngstown State University: $167,079 Kent State University: $200,000 University of Akron: $272,045 Case Western Reserve: $2,365,540 Cleveland State University: $239,975 Bowling Green University: $200,000 University of Toledo: $288,164 This project was created in response to the NSF's Alliances for Graduate Education and the Professoriate (AGEP) program solicitation (NSF 14-505) for the AGEP-Transformation (AGEP-T) track. The AGEP-T track targets strategic alliances of institutions and organizations to develop, implement, and study innovative evidence-based models and standards for STEM graduate education, postdoctoral training, and academic STEM career preparation that eliminate or mitigate negative factors and promote positive practices for underrepresented minorities (URMs). The NOA-AGEP project will develop, implement, and study a model to improve URM student participation, preparation, and success in BCE graduate education, and to prepare them for entry into the professoriate. This AGEP-T project will uniquely contribute to foundational knowledge about the recruitment, retention and graduation of doctoral URMs in BCE. The emphasis on inclusive graduate education, an "umbrella" of supports for graduate students, and extensive diversity training for BCE faculty and staff offers an exceptional opportunity for a regional group of universities with low URM STEM doctoral student enrollment to investigate the promotion of inclusive policies, practices and initiatives. The lessons learned as this project progresses, and the ultimate results from the work, will provide information that will be beneficial to educators, administrators and policymakers, as well as the general public.
09.04.2015	Kent, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan announces $722,044 in National Science Foundation (NSF) to Kent Displays Inc. in Kent, Ohio. These funds will be used to develop eWriter devices for classroom use as a sustainable paper replacement technology and an effective tool for student-teacher interaction. “I congratulate Kent Displays Inc. on receiving this award and their commitment to our community by developing this cutting edge technology right here in Portage County,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. The eWriters provide a paper-like writing experience and electronically capture, store, and transfer handwritten text and images. For education, eWriters introduce a sustainable paper replacement technology at a lower cost than other classroom technologies. The eWriters enable handwritten student work to be wirelessly uploaded to teachers and to virtual whiteboards. Positive societal impacts come from improved teaching methods and student-teacher interactions, particularly for high quality science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) pedagogy, where handwritten notes are advantageous. The most immediate societal benefit of educational eWriters is significant reduction in paper usage, carbon footprints, and costs for schools. Multidisciplinary methods will be used involving researchers in education, liquid crystal display technology, engineering, and software development to successfully achieve project objectives. Experts in the application of technology in education will develop and evaluate eWriter usage strategies for improved instruction and student performance depending on grade level and teaching style. This new type of education technology has tremendous and far reaching impacts in areas of pedagogical techniques, flexible electronics, liquid crystal and polymeric materials, and environmental sustainability. The anticipated results are a suite of eWriter devices and systems to be deployed in K-12 and post-secondary education. The lead organization will commercialize these new products into educational markets leveraging existing sales and marketing infrastructure.
09.02.2015	Kent, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan is announcing $357,000 from the Center for Mental Health Services of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for Project AWARE to be awarded to Kent State University for a three-year research grant. “Kent State University understands the importance of providing mental health services to their students, faculty and staff,” said Congressman Ryan. “I want to commend Drs. Deric Kenne and Rebecca Fischbein and the Mental Health and Recovery Board of Portage County for their commitment to this important work. “Project AWARE Kent is a collaborative effort between Kent State University, the Mental Health and Recovery Board of Portage County and behavioral health agencies within the Kent community,” said Dr.Deric Kenne, the Associate Director of the Division of Drug Research at Kent State University. “It will add to an ongoing effort to improve University and community response to mental health and substance abuse issues through education and awareness.” This award from the Department of Health and Human Services will provide funding to train a team of university and community professionals to provide the Mental Health First Aid program to more than 700 Kent State University students, faculty and staff over the next three years. Individuals receiving the Mental Health First Aid program will learn how to identify and assist students who are struggling with mental health or substance use disorders or experiencing a mental health crisis. The Center for Mental Health Services works to strengthen the mental health system in the United States by assisting states to improve and increase the quality and range of their treatment, rehabilitation, and support, and makes it easier for people to access mental health programs.
08.19.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Ryan is announcing today over $1 million for area fire departments. This funding was provided through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Department of Homeland Security. The Alliance Fire Department has received $875,455 for vehicle acquisition. The Champion Township Fire Department has received $88,515 for operations and safety. The Jackson Volunteer Fire department has received $82,190 for operations and safety. “This is terrific news for the Alliance, Champion Township and Jackson Fire Departments,” said Congressman Ryan. “It is critical that we ensure the health and safety of our firefighters and first responders – these brave men and women are going into harm’s way to protect our communities. It is our responsibility to have their backs. I will continue to make available additional funding for our local governments so that firefighters and first responders can continue to safely serve our communities.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public – as well as that of first-responder personnel. The funds obtained by these fire departments are part of round 11 of the competitive FY 2014 AFG announcements. The AFG will award approximately $304.5 million in competitive grants to fire departments, non-affiliated EMS organizations, and state fire training academies during FY 2014.
08.19.2015	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement in response to the death of former Congressman Louis Stokes: Congressman Lou Stokes loved life and loved his family. He loved Cleveland, and he loved the political process. He was a giant of a man who embodied a quiet dignity that still inspires me today to do more for those who don't have a voice. When I was appointed to the House Appropriations Committee, it was Congressman Stokes who advised and counseled me on how to make my position work for the people of Ohio. It was not his responsibility to take the time to help a young Congressman, but everywhere you look you will find stories like mine where he went out of his way to help those in their time of need. Congressman Stokes was a man of great accomplishment, but he remained a selfless public servant. Today we celebrate his life and accomplishments and I am thankful that I had the good fortune of crossing paths with such a magnificent man.
08.11.2015	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement in response to the devaluation of the Chinese yuan: The action taken yesterday by the Chinese government to devalue their currency makes it even more difficult for American manufacturing and will cost American workers good paying jobs. China has a long history of unfairly undermining American manufacturing, and this action will help them dump their products in the world market. I have actively joined colleagues from both parties in urging the United States to take immediate action against the Chinese currency manipulators. I have led the battle to make the Department of Commerce impose countervailing duties to offset the impact of currency manipulation on U.S. industry. I have proposed that unfair currency manipulation be considered a cause of action in the World Trade Organization. President Obama must hold China accountable. I strongly urge that when he meets next month with Chinese President Xi Jinping that the issue of currency manipulation be at the top of his list of issues for discussion. We must send a strong message to China that they cannot manipulate their currencies at the expense of the American economy. I will continue this fight and do everything I can to keep American manufacturing the backbone of our nation.
08.03.2015	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to President Obama and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) released final version of the Clean Power Plan, which will create national standards to limit carbon pollution from power plants for the first time: “We know climate change is a dangerous and growing threat to our children, our families and our national economy. As extreme weather continued to increase in strength and consistency it is even more important that we act now – we cannot afford to wait any longer to reduce our carbon pollution and begin to stem this tide. The Clean Power Plan is an opportunity to strengthen our communities and economy by investing in clean energy technologies and increasing our efficiency.”
07.31.2015	Kent, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan Announces $313,000 in National Science Foundation research grants to be awarded to Kent State University. “I applaud Kent State University for securing these federal grants. Advancements in education and scientific research are crucial for us to grow as a nation – and I am proud these investments are being made right here in our backyard,” said Congressman Ryan. “These well-deserved grants only further highlight Kent State’s outstanding academic and research record.” Kent State University has received the following two federal grant awards through the National Science Foundation: "Sensing, Imaging, Tuning and Creating Nanomaterial Chirality using Liquid Crystal Phases" project will receive $235,000.00. "EarthCubeIA: Collaborative Proposal: Building Interoperable Cyberinfrastructure (CI) at the Interface between Paleogeoinformatics and Bioinformatics" project will receive $78,000.00.
07.30.2015	Washington, DC – Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Dave Joyce (R-OH) were joined today by a bipartisan group of 13 Members of Congress to urged the United States Trade Representative Michael Froman to include enforceable currency obligations in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). Numerous TPP partners have been identified as currency manipulators, altering exchange rates in their favor to gain advantage over other nations within the agreement, including the United States. “Currency manipulation has cost the United States millions of jobs and that number is continuing to rise every day. It is critical that we put an end to this unfair practice. We know that if we fix currency manipulation, our nation will create 2.3 to 5.8 million jobs right here at home – but as it stands now, this agreement only exasperates the problem,” said Rep. Ryan (D-OH). “We have seen the destructive impact other trade agreements inflicted on hardworking American families, and without an effective policy dealing with currency manipulation, the economic wellbeing of hundreds of thousands of Ohioans and millions across the country will be devastated by this agreement.” "The 800 pound gorilla in the room when it comes to our economy is China and it's blatantly unfair practice of manipulating currency. We all know if US workers and American companies are given a level playing field, we can compete anywhere in the world,” said Rep. Joyce (R-OH). Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH) and David Joyce (R-OH) are joined by Representatives David McKinley (R-WV), Brian Higgins (D-NY), Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Walter Jones (R-NC), Paul Tonko (D-NY), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Alan Grayson (D-FL), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Donna Edwards (D-MD), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Gene Green (D-TX), Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ), and Rosa DeLauro (D-CT). You can view the letter to United States Trade Representative Michael Froman here.
07.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Tim Ryan (OH-13), Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) and Marcia Fudge (OH-11) applaud new guidance from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) for states to improve access to treatment for individuals suffering from substance abuse disorders (SUDs). The new rules allow states to design and test innovative mental health service delivery programs and apply for funding under Medicaid. “The heroin epidemic in the United States is growing. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), heroin-related deaths nearly doubled between 2011 and 2013, with more than 8,200 people dying in 2013 alone. More than 980 of these were Ohio residents. As a nation, we should be doing everything we can to save American lives. While there is still much work to be done, I applaud the new guidance from CMS. Allowing states increased flexibility to test Medicaid coverage for substance use treatment is a giant step in the right direction,” said Rep. Fudge. “Addiction is a disease, and the people suffering from it deserve the same opportunities for care that are available to anyone else who gets sick in this country. Treatment is also the most efficient and cost-effective way to help families and communities respond to addiction, especially as rates of heroin and synthetic drug overdose, prescription drug abuse, and other forms of addiction continue to rise in our region and across the country. This announcement from CMS paves the way for Ohio and all states to address this growing public health concern,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Day in and day out, I hear tragic stories of families and communities broken apart by drug use and am left heartbroken every time. Unfortunately in Ohio, only 1 in 10 people in need of treatment have access to it. That is why I applaud this move to increase opportunities and develop innovative treatment solutions to begin to stem the tide of this growing epidemic we face in Ohio and all across the United States,” said Rep. Ryan. Representatives Fudge, Kaptur and Ryan introduced the Breaking Addiction Act of 2015 earlier this year to give states the flexibility to use federal Medicaid matching funds for mental health treatment. Click here to read the Breaking Addiction Act of 2015. Visit https://www.cms.gov/ to learn more about the new guidance and service delivery opportunities.
07.29.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Ryan is announcing today $47,555 for the Barberton Fire Department. This funding was provided through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Department of Homeland Security. “This is terrific news for the Barberton Fire Department and Fire Chief Kim Baldwin,” said Congressman Ryan. “It is critical that we ensure the health and safety of our firefighters and first responders – these brave men and women are going into harm’s way to protect our communities, it is our responsibility to have their backs. I will continue to make available additional funding for our local governments so that firefighters and first responders can continue to safely serve our communities.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public – as well as that of first-responder personnel. The funds obtained by Barberton Fire Department are part of round 11 of the competitive FY 2014 AFG announcements. The AFG will award approximately $304.5 million in competitive grants to fire departments, non-affiliated EMS organizations, and state fire training academies during FY 2014.
07.28.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan announces $2,058,844 to the International Chemical Workers Union in Akron, Ohio from the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences for hazardous waste health and safety training. “I applaud the Akron International Chemical Workers Union for securing this funding to implement the necessary training programs to ensure workers in our community are safe and secure. I will continue to fight for investments for our communities that will help hardworking Americans get the training they need to do their jobs efficiently and effectively,” said Congressman Ryan. This funding was made possible through the National Institute of Environmental Health Science Multi Union National Worker and Worker-Trainer Health and Safety Training Program and be available during the grant budget period from August 1, 2015 through July 31, 2016.
07.27.2015	Warren, Ohio -- Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement on the on going Brookfield oil spill clean-up: Since news broke of the Brookfield oil spill, I have received continued EPA updates regarding clean-up operations, and am assured that this situation is being taken seriously and proper actions have gone into effect to ensure damages are mitigated and rectified. I am continuing to closely monitor this situation as it develops.
07.24.2015	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today on Brookfield Oil Spill: “I was informed today by the United States Environmental Protection Agency that an estimated 1700 gallons of oil was spilled into a creek that empties into the Shenango River. I have been assured that the appropriate officials have been notified and are responding accordingly. I will continue to closely monitor this serious situation as it develops. My office will be looking into what exactly has happened, making sure this it is properly cleaned up and steps are taken by state officials to ensure this doesn't happen again."
07.22.2015	Congressman Ryan (OH-13) announced a $247,905 grant for the Coitsville Volunteer Fire Department. This funding was provided through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Department of Homeland Security. “This is terrific news for Coitsville Volunteer Fire Department and Chief Chris Manack,” stated Congressman Ryan. “Ensuring the health and safety of our firefighters and first responders is paramount, as they are critical to protecting our communities. I will continue my attempts to obtain additional funding for our local governments to allow these firefighters and first responders to continue serving to their optimal ability across northeast Ohio.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grants program awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public – as well as that of first-responder personnel. The funds obtained by Coitsville Volunteer Fire Department, which are a part of round 9 of the competitive FY 2014 AFG announcements, will support the department with vehicle acquisition to serve the community of Lowellville. The AFG will award approximately $304.5 million in competitive grants to fire departments, non-affiliated EMS organizations, and state fire training academies during FY 2014.
07.15.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement ahead of Governor Kasich’s signing of Ohio House Bill 70, which includes the amendment that would strip local control from the Youngstown City Schools: There is no doubt that Youngstown City Schools, like many other school districts in Ohio, are currently struggling under the high rates of poverty and drastic state and federal budget cuts. Youngstown has lost millions of dollars through Governor Kasich’s plan to gut local government funds, the very money that helps keep our neighborhoods safe and free from the things that make educating our kids more difficult. Instead of focusing on how the State of Ohio can support a community to help improve our public schools, Governor Kasich and the Republican Ohio Legislature rushed this over reaching plan through the legislative process. And furthermore, this debate ignored the most important people in the process – the students, parents and teachers in our community who are most affected and who deserve to have their voices and concerns heard before this plan moves forward. By ignoring these various groups, the Governor has lost the trust of the community. I have heard from countless families and teachers who are concerned about the future of education here in the Valley. There is no doubt in my mind that public education and public school teachers are the backbone of the American education system and vital to the American economy. Ending public education in Youngstown is not the answer. This plan will never succeed unless our teachers feel cared about and supported, not blamed for every problem faced by our community; and unless our students feel safe and can learn in a stable environment, where all the adults are working together, not tearing each other apart. That is why I call upon the State Legislature and Governor Kasich to reconsider.
07.15.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement after voting in support of the Highway and Transportation Funding Act, which is a short-term extension of the Highway Trust Fund for 5 months – the Highway Trust Fund was set to expire at the end of July of this year: It is with regret that I voted in favor of this legislation. Time and again, the Republican leadership faces critical deadlines and forces Congress to kick the can down the road. Our country’s our bridges are unsafe, our infrastructure is failing and roads are crumbling – and a five-month extension doesn’t solve our problems. These short-term extensions don’t allow us to make the critical updates and improvements our country so desperately needs. I could not stand aside and allow this funding to expire, which is why I voted in favor of the measure. We need a long-term, innovative solution for our failing infrastructure. That is why I joined my Democratic colleagues in introducing the GROW AMERICA Act, a long-term transportation bill that authorizes a six-year plan to rebuild America’s infrastructure. Our legislation would add nearly two million jobs to the our economy, while cracking down on American companies that move their mailing addresses overseas to avoid paying taxes. This legislation would allow us to finally bring America’s infrastructure into the 21st century. I call on Republican leadership to stop governing by crisis and allow a vote on the GROW AMERICA Act.
07.15.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan announces today that Kent State University receives $443,212, Eastern Gateway Community College receives $230,666 and Stark State College receives $231,103 from the United States Department of Education under the Student Support Service Program. “I applaud Kent State, Eastern Gateway and Stark State for securing this important funding, and I am happy that this investment will go to such a good cause. Through this grant, low income, underserved students participating in these programs will receive the hand-up they need to be successful at their college or university and in their careers after graduation. Everyone deserves the opportunity to a higher education, no matter their gender, race, income or background,” said Congressman Ryan. Kent State University’s funding will go toward the implementation of a TRIO Student Support Services (SSS) Project from 2015 through 2020. The Project will identify and serve 300 disadvantaged students annually whose prospects for degree completion will be greatly impacted through intensive academic and personal intervention – with the goal of increasing the six-year graduation rate of its participants. The object will endeavor to increase participant success rates to equal or exceed that which would be expected without the intervention. Specifically, the objectives are increasing the persistence rate from 72.6% to 81%, good academic standing from 65% to 76%, and six-year graduation from 42.1% to 55%. Eastern Gateway Community College’s funding will go towards giving 160 low income students advising, priority registration, intensive personal, non-cognitive, financial aid, and academic counseling; emotional support and role modeling from SSS staff and mentors; individual and group tutoring; career exploration and guidance; workshops to gain college, life, and financial skills; exposure to the world of four-year colleges and universities and the new, exciting world of music, drama, history, and culture. In addition, their Pell-recipient participants who meet SSS participation requirements will receive a portion of Grant Aid to offset the expense of college. The objectives of this grant are: 60% of participants will persist from one academic year to the next; 75% will maintain good standing at EGCC/JCC, 25% will graduate within four years, and 15% will transfer to a four-year university or college with an associate degree or certificate. Stark State College’s funding will go to a TRIO Student Support Services (SSS) Program to serve 160 eligible students, two-thirds of whom will be low-income and first-generation or students with disabilities; one-third, low-income or first-generation students; and at least one-third, low-income students with disabilities. The objectives of this grant are: 65% of participants will persist from one-academic year to the next or graduate and/or transfer from a two-year to a four-year institution; 70% of all participants will meet the performance level required to staying in good academic standing at SSC; 20% of new participants will graduate with an associate degree or certificate within four years; 15% of new participants will transfer with an associate degree or certificate and transfer to a four-year institution within four years.
07.14.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today applauded the International Trade Commission’s (ITC) determination that tires manufactured in China and sold in the United States are being subsidized by the Chinese government, leading to the loss of thousands of good-paying jobs for American tire workers. I applaud the ITC for their positive determination in support of American workers. This decision once again proves that American jobs are being jeopardized each and every day by China’s unfair trading practices. There is no question that we have the most productive and highest quality workforce in the world, but it is critical that they have a level playing field – we can no longer allow China to manipulate the system to their advantage,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Our nation owes the United Steelworkers a debt of gratitude for initiating this case.” “We applaud the ITC for their decision in issuing an affirmative final determination for tariffs on Chinese tires being illegally dumped and subsidized into the U.S. market. The outcome in the USW’s pursuit of this case will not only help protect USW members and their families but also helps protect the jobs and futures of the tens of thousands of workers employed within the U.S. tire industry,” said Leo W. Gerard, International President of the United Steelworkers. Anti-dumping and countervailing duty laws provide U.S. businesses and workers with an opportunity to seek relief from market disruptions caused by dumping and unfairly subsided imports into the United States. In November of 2014, Congressman Tim Ryan, joined by twenty-five of his Congressional colleagues, urged U.S. Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker to move quickly to “provide relief that will restore fair trade to the tire sector in the long- term and that will address the surging imports presently facing the industry.” A copy of the letter to Secretary Pritzker is available here.
07.14.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan makes the following statement today in response to the announcement of the Iran Nuclear Deal: “I applaud President Obama and Secretary Kerry for their leadership throughout the negotiations of this historic nuclear deal. The uncertainty and lack of transparency over the last three decades in regards to Iran has created a dangerous and volatile situation for the region and the world. I have always believed that the best option to ensure Iran cannot and does not obtain or develop nuclear arms comes through diplomacy. “As Congress begins the process of evaluating this agreement, I will review the details with great care. I will continue to study the details, speaking to experts, diplomats and parties that may be impacted by this deal. “I have a clear understanding of the dangerous role Iran plays today in an unstable region. There is no doubt that their past actions are concerning, and I will weigh this deal with the knowledge that every step must be verified and that enforcement provisions are reliable, realistic and firm. “As a member of the Appropriations Defense Subcommittee, my support will rest upon whether this agreement will make our country safer, make our allies in the region more secure, and make the world more stable. While no deal will be perfect, we must ensure Iran will be prevented from building nuclear weapons. We must weigh the strength of this agreement against what the world looks like without a deal or a situation where the United States is forced to act unilaterally, without the support of the nations currently involved in this negotiation. My vote on this agreement will not be made lightly."
07.12.2015	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today in advance of the Obama Administration’s potential Iran Nuclear Deal announcement: “I am pleased to learn we might soon have a deal announced, and I am hopeful that we will finally make some real progress on this issue after more than a decade of uncertainty. But as a member of the Appropriations Defense Subcommittee, I will closely examine any deal to ensure Iran will be prevented from building nuclear arms and a new influx of revenue will not be created for terrorist organizations.”
07.10.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan voted today in favor the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act (HR 6), which passed the United States House of Representatives by a vote of 344-77. This legislation provides the National Institute of Health (NIH) $8.75 billion in mandatory funding over the next five years and provides updates and resources to the Federal Drug Administration (FDA). “The 21st Century Cures Act provides the NIH and the FDA with much needed funding for the next five years; ensuring that our nation will remain on the cutting-edge of scientific innovation and discovery. This legislation modernizes clinical trial regulations, encourages the development of next generation treatments, and streamlines how the FDA approves new drugs and devices to reach in need patients more quickly. Funding these critical programs is not only important for the health of our nation, but it is also important for our economy. We know that for every $1 of NIH funding generates $2.21 in local economic growth, supporting 402,000 jobs in 2012 alone,” said Congressman Ryan. "H.R.6, the 21st Century Cures Act, offers exciting promise to those living with multiple sclerosis (MS),” said Samantha Villella, District Activist Leader for the National Multiple Sclerosis Society. “It implements reforms and secures funding levels, which will expedite the speed of research and the development process for disease treatments. It also establishes a much-needed data collection system, which will help researchers better understand the incidence and prevalence of multiple sclerosis. My Mom was diagnosed with MS in 2008 and my sister in 2014, so the passage of this bill brings me much optimism that someday soon we will have a world without MS"
07.10.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH), U.S. Rep. Jim Renacci (R-OH), and U.S. Rep. Pat Tiberi (R-OH) announced today that they have introduced the Preparing More Welfare Recipients for Work Act (H.R. 2991). This bipartisan legislation was introduced to strengthen the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families Program (TANF) and would encourage states to engage more recipients in activities that lead to self-sufficiency, as well as simplify the current work participation requirement each state must meet. “We know that it is important to give a hand-up to needy families here in our state and across the nation, and this legislation takes steps to strengthen a program that is already helping so many. Providing expanded opportunities for job training, vocational and secondary education and extended time for job searches are common sense solutions that will help those most in need in our communities lift themselves out of poverty,” says Ryan. “States need flexibility to help welfare recipients become self-sufficient. Current TANF work requirements can discourage states from engaging those with the least experience or education because they need greater help to prepare for employment. Our bill simplifies these rules so states will be encouraged, and rewarded, for helping more welfare recipients prepare for work through education, find jobs, and escape poverty. As the first in my family to graduate college, I understand the importance and value of education throughout all aspects of life. While our effort is to help recipients get back to work, we also need to enable them to gain the skills required for success,” says Renacci. “These commonsense reforms streamline and simplify complicated work requirements, leading to higher enrollment in work or job training programs. Providing families more options and a wider variety of tools to become self-sufficient will lead to longer term success. I’ve been a longtime advocate for TANF and anticipate working with my colleagues to improve the program,” says Tiberi. Rep. Jim Renacci (OH-16) and Rep. Pat Tiberi (OH-12) sit on the House Ways & Means Committee. Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13) sits on the House Appropriations Committee.
07.10.2015	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement on the 2016 Lordstown-built Chevrolet Cruze: I would like to congratulate the entire General Motors team on the reveal of the All-New 2016 Chevrolet Cruze. It is a sleek design that is impressive and functional in today's car market. The event marks another great day for the people of the Mahoning Valley and we are proud to be the home of the Chevrolet Cruze. I commend GM management, designers, engineers and most importantly the hard working men and women of the United Auto Workers who put their passion and sweat into their craft and build world class automobiles. I look forward to many years of continued success at the GM Lordstown Complex.
07.10.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Congressman David Joyce (R-OH) today introduced a resolution to designate each May 30th as National Bartter Syndrome Day. This designation would give much needed attention and increase awareness for the one million people worldwide affected by Bartter Syndrome and their families working though the difficulties associated with this little known disease. Bartter Syndrome is a group of very similar kidney disorders that cause an imbalance of potassium, sodium, chloride, and other molecules in the body. This legislation was inspired by 12 year old Ethan Hoffman from Warren, Ohio who suffers from Bartter Syndrome and with his family, has met with Congressman Ryan to brief him on the importance of increasing awareness for this disease. “It is my hope that by introducing this resolution, we will begin to increase awareness and attention to this disease that affects so many here in Ohio and across the world. I am hopeful that with continued effort and awareness we can increase funding for research and find an eventual cure,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “I commend the Hoffman family and especially Ethan for their hard work and relentless advocacy, and for bringing the hardships and scope of this disease to my attention. I hope the House of Representatives will move quickly to pass this important resolution” “I’m proud to join Tim in introducing this resolution to raise awareness for Bartter Syndrome,” said Congressman David Joyce. “It is my hope that each May 30th will bring more attention to the struggles that each affected family faces, and the need for more research so that we can treat, and ultimately cure, this rare disease.” “Our son Ethan has an incurable rare genetic kidney disorder which causes premature birth and detrimental symptoms that can lead to cardiac arrest without treatment,” said Liliya Hoffman, Chairwoman of the Bartter Syndrome Foundation. “At 12 years old Ethan has become an advocate for his disease and it is his mission to make May 30th ‘National Bartter Syndrome Awareness Day’ to reach out to the newly diagnosed and educate the general public on this life-threatening chronic disorder and ultimately find a cure.” In most cases, the antenatal form of Bartter Syndrome, which begins before birth is often life-threatening. This form is characterized by abnormally high levels of amniotic fluid surrounding the fetus, premature delivery, and salt loss. The other form of Bartter syndrome begins in early childhood and tends to be less severe, causing individuals to experience symptoms such as fatigue, muscle weakness, growth delay, and developmental delay.
07.09.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement after today’s Fiscal Year 2016 Agriculture Appropriation mark-up and vote: “As of today, half of all Americans and a quarter of teenagers are diabetic or pre-diabetic. For the first time in our history, we are raising a generation of Americans who will live sicker and die younger than their parents. Yet once again, when faced with the opportunity to make the country healthier, my Republican colleagues on the Appropriations Committee voted to turn their back on the American people. “Through this legislation, they are continuing to give unnecessary handouts to large agricultural producers while preventing dietary guidelines from being properly updated and weakening our nutrition labeling standards. This bill continues to incentivize already cash-strapped schools to not comply with sodium and whole grain standards in school lunches while prioritizing special interest tobacco companies. “We need to stop incentivizing the production and consumption of unhealthy foods. For that reason, I was pleased to see the inclusion of language to study the importance of putting salad bars in our schools. We need to increase consumption of fruits and vegetables that will help keep our children healthy.” Congressman Tim Ryan introduced the Salad Bar in Schools Expansion Act in June of 2015, which contains similar language included in the Agricultural Appropriation’s bill.
07.09.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement today after voting against the Elementary and Secondary Education Reauthorization Act (H.R. 5): I agree that the Elementary and Secondary Education Act was long overdue for an update, but this bill fails to make the critical improvements our schools desperately need to ensure our students are getting the best education possible. This legislation freezes funding at the Fiscal Year 2015 level, which effectively represents over $800 million in education cuts due to sequestration I am disappointed that this bill does not take steps to narrow the achievement or opportunity gaps, nor give our children access to a well-rounded education that includes physical education, music and the arts. It cruelly diverts funding from low-income school districts to wealthier districts. This bill is moving our education system backwards, and is not properly preparing our children for their futures. Although I clearly did not support this legislation and voted accordingly, I was happy to see the inclusion of language that would promote the teaching of social and emotional learning (SEL) skills in our schools. The number one indicator of success in schools is a student’s ability to regulate themselves—and we need to emphasize it in our school curriculum.
07.08.2015	Washington DC – Congressman Ryan (OH-13) announced nearly $550,000 in grants for the City of Niles and Paris Township Fire Departments. This funding was provided through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Department of Homeland Security. The City of Niles Fire Department received $400,000 and Paris Township Fire Department received $137,142. “This is terrific news for Niles and Paris Township,” said Congressman Ryan. “Ensuring the health and safety of our firefighters and first responders is paramount, because they are in turn ensuring the health and safety of everyone in our communities. I will continue working to obtain additional funding for our local governments to support the brave men and women serving across northeast Ohio.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grants program awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public – as well as that of the first-responder personnel. These funds, which are a part of round 9 of the competitive FY 2014 AFG announcements, will support both fire departments in acquiring new vehicles to serve their respective communities. To date, an appropriation of $680 million in grants through the AFG program has been approved for FY 2014.
07.07.2015	Washington, DC – Representatives Tim Ryan (OH-13), David Joyce (OH-14), Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) and Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) applaud the inclusion of language in the Department of Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriation bill to evaluate the need for a Great Lakes algal bloom coordinator. Harmful algal blooms in the Great Lakes affected over a half million Ohioans last year. Lake Erie supports over 117,000 fulltime jobs and provides drinking water to approximately 3 million Ohioans. This language would encourage the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to evaluate whether the Great Lakes Federal Interagency Task Force should designate a coordinator to work with federal, state, tribal, and local governments. “I’m proud that we are one step closer towards having a much needed coordinator within the EPA to defend our fresh water from harmful algal blooms,” said Rep. Ryan. “Our state’s abundance of fresh water is a vital resource and strategic advantage, and it’s our duty as Ohioans to ensure Lake Erie and the Great Lakes are able to continue to thrive. We must do everything in our power to combat these harmful algal blooms that threaten the health and well-being of our state.” "This is a crucial step forward for the Great Lakes. As we get into the thick of summer it's timely that we are doing everything we can to ensure we protect and preserve this national treasure, a source of drinking water for 40 million people," said Rep. Joyce. “The recent heavy rainfall in Northern Ohio has raised the stakes even more on our efforts to monitor and track harmful algal blooms in Lake Erie. This complex and multi-agency undertaking would benefit from the appointment of a Great Lakes algal bloom coordinator. With our top experts reporting an increasing threat of algal blooms later this summer, the urgency and importance of this kind of coordination and accountability will only continue to grow,” said Rep. Kaptur. “We have made significant strides to improve the water quality of Lake Erie and the Great Lakes, but we must do more,” said Rep. Fudge. “Lake Erie is a lifeline for our state, supporting a multi-billion dollar economy and supplying drinking water for many. We must do all that we can to ensure Ohioans have safe, clean water and continued economic growth.” "Toxic algae season is upon us and it is more critical than ever that federal, state, local, international, and tribal entities work together to limit the amount of fertilizers, manure, and human sewage flowing into Lake Erie. A federal coordinator within the EPA would enhance and coordinate these efforts," said Kristy Meyer, Managing Director of Agricultural, Health & Clean Water Programs at the Ohio Environmental Council. "We need an organized approach to ensure no community ever again goes a day without water because of toxic algae." Representatives Tim Ryan, David Joyce, Marcy Kaptur and Marcia L. Fudge introduced similar legislation in April of 2015 to require the Administrator for the EPA to appoint a coordinator for issues relating to harmful algal blooms in the Great Lakes, and for other purposes (HR 1923).
07.02.2015	Akron, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan today announces $486,000 in federal funds to be awarded to SUMMA Health Systems for nurse education and retention. This grant will help SUMMA meet its future staffing needs. It is estimated that by 2022, the United States will need more than one million new nurses. “Right now the United States needs more nurses and this grant will help SUMMA train quality nurses and keep them working,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “I congratulate the leadership of SUMMA Health System for taking the steps necessary to secure this funding.” This award is funded through the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), an agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. It is the primary Federal agency for improving access to health care by strengthening the health care workforce, building healthy communities and achieving health equity. HRSA’s programs provide health care to people who are geographically isolated, economically or medically vulnerable.
07.01.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement in support of President Obama’s proposals to update overtime rules for American workers: “Economic prosperity depends on a middle class with money in their pockets. Our overtime rules were long overdue for an update. President Obama’s proposals will make a real and positive impact for workers across the United States, increasing overtime pay for over 160,000 Ohioans and five million Americans. American workers should be paid for the work they perform - if you put in a hard day’s work, you should expect good American wages and benefits, and a better life for your kids. This overtime rule is an important step in rebuilding the middle class and I commend the President for his bold actions to make the economy work for all Americans.”
07.01.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today released the following statement regarding the expiration of the Export-Import Bank’s charter at midnight tonight: "Instead of standing with American manufacturing, businesses and workers, Congressional Republicans are allowing the Export-Import Bank’s charter to expire at midnight tonight. Since 2007, the Export-Import Bank has supported 15,300 jobs in Ohio and 1.5 million jobs nationwide. "As American businesses are facing increased competition on the global market, now is not the time to shut down this critical resource. Allowing the Export-Import Bank to shutdown is bad for businesses, bad for workers and bad for our nation. I call on Congressional Republicans to come to their senses and end this destructive cycle of economic uncertainty."
06.29.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan is calling on Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff, who is visiting the United States this week, to return Claudia Hoerig to our country to stand trial in the murder of her husband Karl in Newton Falls,OH in 2007. President Rousseff is coming to the United States looking for export opportunities, which should be tied to positive actions in the Hoerig case. “If President Rousseff is looking to do business with the United States, we need to look for assurances from her that Brazil will be a real trading partner and not harbor criminals who commit crimes against American citizens,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “The Hoerig family has waited over eight years for justice to be done. I will continue this fight, and President Rousseff needs to know that we will not rest until Claudia Hoerig is returned to stand trial.” Congressman Ryan recently introduced two bills in the U.S. House of Representatives, the Karl Hoerig Foreign Aid Suspension Act (HR 2784) and the End Immunity for Brazilian Criminals Act (HR 2785). Both bills are in response to the death over eight years ago of U.S. Air Force Reserve Major Karl Hoerig, who was murdered by his wife Claudia Hoerig. He was a decorated combat pilot, with nearly 200 combat missions in Iraq and Afghanistan. He was also a loved father, brother and son. An autopsy revealed he was shot in the back of the head while tying his shoes. Before Karl’s body was found, Claudia used Karl's status as a commercial airlines pilot to flee via a free plane trip to her native Brazil, where she remains to this day.Hoerig is returned to stand trial.” Unfortunately, the United States continues to provide Brazil with foreign aid and continues to issue visas to Brazilian citizens to come into this country. These pieces of legislation would stop providing monetary aid to a nation that does not support reciprocal extradition (HR 2784), and stop allowing individuals to come into our country who can kill or commit other crimes and flee to Brazil with immunity (HR 2785). Congressman Ryan has written several letters over the years to Brazilian and American authorities requesting assistance in bringing Claudia Hoerig to justice. Although she revoked her Brazilian citizenship to become a U.S. citizen 14 years ago, Brazil has still failed to live up to their international obligations to allow her to be brought to justice. Though U.S. policy is to extradite to Brazil persons facing charges in that country, Brazil’s policy is to refrain from extradition of its nationals. As a result, despite being officially wanted for murder in the United States, Claudia Hoerig lives in Brazil, without the fear of being extradited.
06.29.2015	Washington DC - Congressman Tim Ryan makes the following statement on the United States Supreme Court Obergefell v. Hodges that states cannot ban same-sex marriage: “The promotion of fairness and justice is a hallmark of who we are as Americans. All men and women deserve to be able to love and marry whomever they choose and today’s decision will go down in history as a win for equality for all Americans. Marriage rights should not depend on what state you live in or who you love, but the understanding that all men and women should be treated equally. Today love won.”
06.29.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan announces $2.1 million in federal funds to the Western Reserve Port Authority to make updates and improvements to the Youngstown-Warren Regional Airport. This funding was made available through the United States Department of Transportation for the purposes of constructing the taxiway, expand apron, installing guidance signs, and installing runway signs and runway incursion markings. “This is great news for the Valley. I am proud that the Youngstown-Warren Regional Airport has received this critical funding for updates and improvements. I will continue working to bring these types of resources back to our community.”
06.25.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan voted today to support Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA), providing $450 million to train workers who have lost jobs due to free trade agreements. This legislation also included a provision in the bill that extends the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC), through 2019 and provides a refundable tax credit equal to 72.5 percent of the cost of qualified health coverage for those workers who receives a trade adjustment allowance, who are eligible for the alternative trade adjustment assistance program, or who is over age of 55 and receives pension benefits from the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. “I remain deeply disappointed with the outcome of the Fast Track debate and stand firm in my belief that we should not be passing laws that will result in massive job losses. Unfortunately, after the passage of Fast Track authority, there was no doubt that our workers will need an assistance package moving forward. That is why I voted in favor TAA and HCTC, which together will help mitigate the negative effects of both past and future trade agreements,” said Congressman Ryan. “These programs are critical for workers and retirees who have suffered because of bad trade agreements and pension reductions. While this has been a long and difficult process, I will continue the work to ensure that trade agreements, including the Trans-Pacific Partnership, do not jeopardize the livelihood of American workers.” The bill ensures training assistance for up to 117 weeks, giving all workers the opportunity to receive long-term training, and provides an additional 13 weeks of training for workers completing a degree or an industry-recognized credential. TAA allows various training options, including opportunities for part-time and pre-layoff training. The Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC), is a refundable tax credit equal to 72.5 percent of the cost of qualified health coverage paid by an individual who receives a trade adjustment allowance, who is eligible for the alternative trade adjustment assistance program, or who is over age of 55 and receives pension benefits from the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
06.25.2015	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan makes the following statement on the United States Supreme Court King v Burwell case, ruling that federal subsidies for the Affordable Care Act are legal in states that did not build their own marketplace: Today’s decision means 161,000 Ohioans and 6.4 million Americans will be able to keep their health care. It is clear that the Affordable Care Act ensures that everyone in the United States has the right to access affordable, quality health coverage– regardless of who they are or where they live. I applaud the Supreme Court for making the right decision and prioritizing our nation’s health. I vow to continue working to improve and expand this law, which gives so many the care they need and so deeply deserve.
06.24.2015	Congressman Tim Ryan today voted against advancing the Fiscal Year 2016 Labor, HHS, and Education Appropriations Bill in the Appropriations Committee. This bill eliminates many federal programs, including 27 education programs. It also includes language that rolls back advancements in women’s health coverage, worker protections, and collective bargaining. This bill hurts efforts to improve schools and public health by reducing Title I funding for low-income schools, eliminating Title X family planning, reducing teen pregnancy prevention programs, and allows employers to deny coverage of any health services to which they have a moral objection. “For the first time in six years members of the Appropriations Committee were given an opportunity to markup a Labor, HHS, Education bill, but unfortunately the end product was a major disappointment. I voted against this bill for a simple reason—it moves our country backwards when it comes to the education, health and labor protections for Americans,” said Congressman Ryan. “This bill fails to address the health issues that we face. Instead, Congress should be making strong investments in child nutrition, physical activity, and programs that improve the wellbeing of our children.” This bill would increase the amount of people without health care coverage by 381,000 over the next few years, prohibit the use of funds to implement or administer the Affordable Care Act (ACA), and cause young children to lose access to high quality early education.
06.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This morning, Congressman Ryan, Senator Bernie Sanders (I-VT) and Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) announced legislation to be introduced in the House and Senate to restore pension guarantees for thousands of retired union workers, undoing pension cuts that were included in a spending bill during the 2014 lame-duck Congress. They were joined by union leaders, pension advocates and retirees. “Workers in this country are profit creators. Their work directly impacts any given company’s ability to earn a profit,” said Rep. Ryan. “Pensions are not ‘benefits’ given as a gift from employer to employee, they are payment for work that was already done. Workers and employers reach an agreement to be paid a lower salary in order to receive their pension at a later date. And when these pensions are cut or dissolved, it is a clear breach of contract and workers are being robbed. It’s that simple.” “Hard-working retirees should not ever have to doubt their retirement security,” Sen. Sanders said. “We made a commitment 40 years ago to workers in this country that companies will never renege on a pension promise. We need to restore that commitment.” “Our pension system has allowed senior citizens to enjoy the fruits of years of hard work and receive the payouts they worked for a lifetime to earn,” said Rep. Kaptur. “However, 1.5 million pension participants, including current retirees, are in multi-employer pension plans that are in danger of running out of money soon through no fault of their own. Our legislation will restore anti-cutback rules so that retirees are protected from having their earned benefits cut- restoring a 40 year principal that retirees pensions should never be on the chopping block-- while also providing relief for participating employers. I encourage my colleagues to support this measure and correct the misstep that was included in the last-minute Omnibus funding bill last year.” For more than 40 years, U.S. law prevented ongoing pension plans from cutting retiree benefits unilaterally. Last year however the laws governing multiemployer pension plans were changed as part of the 1,600 page Omnibus spending bill Congress passed to avoid a government shutdown. As a result, workers that gave up raises and other benefits to get a pension are now vulnerable to losing as much as 60 percent of their hard-earned benefits. More than 10 million Americans currently rely on multiemployer pension plans.
06.18.2015	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed Trade Promotion Authority or Fast Track. This legislation does not include Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA), so it will go back to the Senate for consideration. “I am deeply disappointed that the House passed Fast Track today. Living in Northeast Ohio, I have watched bad trade deals after bad trade deal decimate working families in our state and across the nation. When I see the devastating impact of these trade deals, I can’t figure out how anyone thinks they work for our country. By giving this President Fast Track authority, Congress and the American people will have no power to improve or impact these trade deals that affect the economic wellbeing of hundreds of thousands of Ohioans and Americans across the country. “As we stand, Fast Track is still a long way from becoming law. I remain committed to doing everything in my power to block this Administration and Congress from passing Fast Track or a trade agreement that will cripple manufacturing and ship jobs overseas.”
06.16.2015	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to the Food and Drug Administration move to eliminate trans-fat from American food products over the next three years: “Our country is sick, two-thirds of Americans are overweight, and half are obese. Since just 1960, the average weight of the American woman has increased by 26 pounds and a man by nearly 30 pounds, we have a massive problem. You only need to look through a few food labels at the grocery store to see just how unhealthy our food has become in recent years. That is why I’m pleased that the FDA has taken this real step towards making our nation healthier by eliminating trans-fat from our food," said Congressman Ryan. “This ruling helps reverse the trend of poor dietary habits, but we can do more. I have introduced two pieces of legislation that will increase nutrition education and encourage healthier eating and lifestyle choices. We can no longer ignore the problem, and together we can start to make a difference and save the lives of thousands of Americans.” Congressman Tim Ryan has introduced two pieces of legislation aimed to improving the health of Americans. The Salad Bar in Schools Expansion Act (HR 2627) would provide the necessary training and technical assistance for schools to set up salad bar programs, so that children have access to healthier and more nutritious lunches. Very few children eat the daily amount of fruits and vegetables recommend by national health authorities, but this can be rectified – research indicates that school salad bars increase children’s consumption of a wide variety of fruits and vegetables. And the Expansion of Nutrition’s Role in Curricula and Healthcare (ENRICH) Act (HR 4427), which creates a grant program for U.S. Medical Schools and Osteopathic Colleges to establish integrated nutrition curriculum program. This three year grant program would highlight the role that nutrition and diet play in prevention and management of obesity and cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and cancer.
06.16.2015	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in opposition to extending the deadline to reconsider a critical component to the Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) or Fast Track Legislation, the new deadline is July 30, 2015. “All we have to do is look at the shuttered factories across Ohio to know what past trade deals have done to our communities. I will not apologize for doing everything in my power to stop this new trade from happening. We know that the Trans-Pacific Partnership—a 12-country multilateral trade agreement that makes up 40% of the world’s GDP – will destroy the economic wellbeing of hundreds of thousands of Ohioans and Americans across the nation. Free trade without fair trade threatens manufacturing jobs, innovation and inevitably leads to hundreds of thousands of American jobs being shipped overseas. I am pleased that American workers rather than Wall Street won the first battle last week, and today’s actions prove that the President and House Republicans do not have the support they need to grease the wheels for the next NAFTA-style trade agreement. I will not stand by and allow this bad deal to go unchallenged,” said Congressman Ryan. Congress needs to pass Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA), an worker assistance and job training program, which includes Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) to complete Fast Track, and this has become the final road block to giving the President and future Presidents Fast Track authority on trade deals. Fast Track increases the President’s power and removes Congress’s authority to amend or influence trade deals, including the sweeping Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). Congressman Ryan remains a vocal opponent to Fast Track authority and the Trans-Pacific Partnership, and although he fundamentally supports Trade Adjustment Assistance and the Health Coverage Tax Credit accompanying it, he will not cast a vote that advances Fast Track. “As a long-time supporter of TAA and HCTC, I was disappointed that House Republicans used these important programs as a pawn in the long road to passing Fast Track and TPP. I am committed to opposing any future trade agreements that will hurt American workers and manufacturing, and unfortunately that means taking difficult votes. Now is the time to stop unfair trade and to do so it is critical that we stop the passage of TPA. I look forward to keeping the dialogue open on how we can pass TAA and HCTC without jeopardizing the livelihood of thousands of workers in the state of Ohio and around the country," said Congressman Ryan.
06.15.2015	Akron, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan is announcing that $45 million in federal funds has been allocated to the Development Fund of Western Reserve Inc. to support economic development projects that will create quality jobs and provide commercial and community goods and services to residents throughout the organization’s 18-county service area in Northeast Ohio. “This funding will be instrumental in forming strong public-private partnerships that will spur economic development and growth in underserved, low-income urban and rural communities throughout Northeast Ohio. These business and real estate investments will bring jobs and opportunities to our communities most in need. I applaud the Development Fund of Western Reserve for all their hard work to secure this funding and I will continue to advocate on their behalf in Washington,” said Congressman Ryan. “The Development Fund of the Western Reserve now has the opportunity to fund economic development projects in Akron, Youngstown, Wooster and other areas in northeastern Ohio,” said Chris Burnham, President of the Development Finance Authority of Summit County. “We look forward to deploying the credits as rapidly as possible to bring private investment capital to projects in NE Ohio communities that otherwise cannot proceed.” Areas served: Ashland County, Ashtabula County, Carroll County, Columbiana County, Geauga County, Holmes County, Huron County, Lake County, Lorain County, Mahoning County, Medina County, Portage County, Richland County, Stark County, Summit County, Trumbull County, Tuscarawas County, and Wayne County. This award is funded through the United States Department of Treasury’s New Markets Tax Credit Program (NMTC Program), which was established by Congress in 2000 to spur new or increased investments into operating businesses and real estate projects located in low-income communities. The NMTC Program attracts investment capital to low-income communities by permitting individual and corporate investors to receive a tax credit against their Federal income tax return in exchange for making equity investments in specialized financial institutions called Community Development Entities (CDEs).
06.12.2015	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today after he voted against Trade Promotion Authority or “Fast Track”. The House of Representatives blocked TPA or “Fast Track” from advancing to the President’s desk: “Over the last twenty years, I have watched one trade agreement after another decimate working families. By passing fast track trade authority, Congress would give all of our negotiating power to this and future Presidents and surrender any ability to ensure future trade agreements will work for Ohioans. By passing Fast Track, Congress and the public will be left behind on the pending Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement and we will have no power to improve or impact this deal that will affect the economic wellbeing of hundreds of thousands of Ohioans and Americans across the country. “In Ohio, I watched steel mills close; sat in union halls listening to families coping with the outsourcing of their jobs; and saw communities nearly destroyed from loss of industry. We know what NAFTA did to our community here in Ohio and throughout the United States, and the effect it still has today. For these reasons, I voted against Fast Track and actively encouraged my colleagues in the House to defeat this measure. I could not stand by and support a bill that will allow the Administration to ignore Congress and pass a trade agreement that will cripple manufacturing, stop innovation and ship hundreds of thousands of American jobs overseas.” To watch Congressman Ryan's floor speech during today's Fast Track debate click here
06.12.2015	Washington, DC – Congressmen Tim Ryan (OH-13) and Michael Turner (OH-10) are today announcing $10 million in funding for additive manufacturing innovation research program based at Wright Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio. The program was created last year to equip the United States Air Force with the technology and expertise to use 3D printing and other emerging manufacturing techniques to fabricate low-volume replacement parts for weapons systems at a lower cost than can be achieved through current defense procurement processes. Ohio is a leader in the field of additive manufacturing with Youngstown State University and the University of Dayton Research Institute already working together on ways to increase the use of additive manufacturing in the military. Northeast Ohio is also home to America Makes (formerly known as the National Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute).“Additive manufacturing is transforming every sector of our national economy and it is clear that Ohio is leading the way,” said Congressman Ryan. “I’m proud to assist in the funding of this program that will ultimately help grow manufacturing jobs in our State and across the nation, while at the same time reduce costs for the Defense Department.”“I am proud to be a leader on this program that continues to support Ohio manufacturing capabilities and taps into the talent at Wright Patterson Air Force Base. This is just one example of how bipartisan initiatives can expand opportunities and continue to bring jobs to Ohio and assist the Defense Department,” said Congressman Mike Turner. Congressman Ryan, a member of the House Defense Subcommittee on Appropriations was able to obtain $10 million for the program in the Fiscal Year 2016 Defense Appropriations Bill, which passed the House Appropriations Committee on June 11, 2015. Congressman Turner, a member of the House Armed Services Committee was able to include authorizing language into the Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for this program. Both the NDAA bill and the FY 2016 Defense Appropriations Bill must still be passed by the Senate and signed by the President.
06.11.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan voted today in favor of the Fiscal Year 2016 House Defense Appropriations Bill which passed the House of Representative by a vote of 278-149. “I am proud to vote in favor of this legislation which will have a direct and positive impact in our community – including opportunities for YSU, America Makes and the Youngstown Air Reserve Station. This legislation reflects our commitment to the men and women who selflessly serve our nation in the Armed Forces by giving them the tools and training they need to protect our nation and benefits they so deeply deserve,” said Congressman Ryan. Congressman Ryan, a member of the House Defense Subcommittee on Appropriations, helped secure $10 million in funding for an additive manufacturing innovation research program based at Wright Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio – allowing Youngstown State University, America Makes and the University of Dayton Research Institute to continue working together on ways to increase the use of additive manufacturing in the military. Ryan also secured $10 million last year for the same program. Further, Congressman Ryan inserted language into the report accompanying the bill which seeks to provide more federal funding for Air Force Reserve Specialized Missions—of which the 910th Airlift Wing is one. This legislation provides $490.2 billion in discretionary funds for the base budget for the Department of Defense and $88.4 billion for the Overseas Contingency Operations funding.
06.10.2015	Kent, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan announces today that the Kent Fire Department has been awarded a federal grant from the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). The fire department will receive over $35,000 to go towards enhancing safety operations, training, and improving necessary emergency equipment.“Firefighters and first responders put their lives on the line every day, and I am pleased the Kent Fire Department has received this funding which will enhance their services,” said Congressman Ryan. “Our emergency response teams need the best equipment available and this funding will help them serve our local communities better and ensure their own safety.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) is intended to ensure that fire departments and other non-affiliated EMS response services are granted assistance for the resources they need to assist communities and defend themselves from fires and other hazards. Operations and Safety grants can be used for wellness and health programs, professional training, critical personal protective equipment, facility upgrades, and supplies. In 2014, the AFG awarded over $300 million to first-responder organizations and has provided billions of dollars overall to these organizations since its creation in 2001.
06.09.2015	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today on his opposition to the FY 2016 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations: “I stand in staunch opposition to this legislation that freezes or cuts critical transportation investments and housing programs that assist vulnerable families in Ohio and across the nation. "There are 70,000 bridges in the United States that are structurally deficient and one-third of our roads are in poor or mediocre condition. The numbers don’t lie. Communities all around the country are dealing with crumbling infrastructure that is urgently in need of improvements and repairs. "America’s infrastructure is what allows our private businesses and our economy to thrive. Everyone in our community – from business leaders, teachers, law enforcement, and our families and friends – rely on these public investments daily. These are things we may take for granted, but they make life in America what it is today – and this legislation only perpetuates the deterioration of our most critical infrastructure needs.”
06.09.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan (Oh-13) is announcing a $495,910 federal grant for the Consortium for Advanced Hybrid Manufacturing–Integrating Technologies (CAM-IT). This consortium, which was established with the assistance of Youngstown State University and North Carolina State University, will be the first develop a comprehensive roadmap for integrating additive and subtractive metal manufacturing technologies in order to accelerate the adoption of the technology. This combined method is more commonly referred to as “hybrid manufacturing”. “YSU continues to be leader in the field of advanced manufacturing and together with YBI and America Makes they have made Youngstown the focal point of this emerging and transformational technology,” said Congressman Ryan. “This grant will ensure that American manufacturing continues to be a world player by helping U.S. manufacturers develop tailored plans to integrate additive manufacturing into their production methods.” The award will allow Youngstown State University to bring together individual stakeholders to collaborate on the accelerated adoption of precision Additive Manufacturing metal parts. The program will enhance advanced manufacturing capabilities, improve the efficiency and reliability of Additive Manufacturing (AM) processes, develop workforce training and education requirements; and further develop the supply chain for hybrid manufacturing. According to Dr. Guha Manogharan, Assistant Professor, Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering at YSU, “The advanced manufacturing community in the US will greatly benefit from improved processing capabilities that produce complex functional parts through this hybrid approach”. CAM-IT will also provide U.S. manufacturers with shorter lead times and more affordable low-volume production. The project also will bring together stakeholders with the skills necessary to accelerate technical development in both additive and hybrid manufacturing. Before the start of this project, there was no widely used system for integrating additive and subtractive manufacturing processing methods. The project builds upon two successful partnerships between YSU and the Youngstown Business Incubator to support the adoption of additive manufacturing technology in industry.
06.03.2015	Congressman Tim Ryan today joined 60 of his House colleagues in writing a letter to Speaker Boehner and Leader Nancy Pelosi, calling on them to ensure that the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) legislation is fully funded and does not use cuts to Medicare to pay for the TAA program. “I am, and always have been, an ardent supporter of the Trade Adjustment Assistance program and firmly believe it must be fully funded—but cutting Medicare to pay for it is wrong for our seniors, wrong for our workers and wrong for the nation,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “TAA is critical to supporting displaced workers, but it is inexcusable to do so at the expense of more than 50 million seniors.” In addition to the 61 signers of the letter, the letter is endorsed by the AFL CIO, AFSCME SEIU, The Alliance for Retired Americans, Communications Workers of America, The National Committee to Preserve Social Security & Medicare, and Social Security Works. The full letter can be viewed here.
06.03.2015	Washington, DC – Representatives Tim Ryan (OH-13), Sam Farr (CA-20) and Frederica S. Wilson (FL-24) introduce the Salad Bar in Schools Expansion Act. With more than 30 million children eating school meals each day and approximately 30 percent of America’s youth overweight, we must do more. As Congress currently debates the reauthorization of child nutrition programs, opponents of current school nutrition standards are trying to repeal the requirement that school meals contain at least ½ cup of fruits and vegetables. Research shows that the current standard increases consumption of fruits and vegetables and decreases food waste. In addition, salad bars have been recognized as a highly successful, cost-effective strategy to help schools comply with federal regulations. This legislation establishes a new program to provide training, technical assistance and placement of salad bars in elementary, middle and high schools across the country. “Currently, one-third of the children in the United States are overweight or obese, putting them at risk for heart disease, Type 2 diabetes and other chronic diseases. As a parent, I understand the importance of teaching our children how to eat healthier, and it is our responsibility to help reverse this dangerous trend. Salad bars have proven to be an effective and affordable way to make school lunch more nutritious.” said Rep. Tim Ryan. “Healthy options in the lunchroom fuel success in the classroom. There is no better way to ensure that success than through the Salad Bars in Schools program which has a provided more students with access to fresh fruits and vegetables. Investing in our children’s future starts with expanding this great program to even more schools,” said Rep. Sam Farr. “As a lifelong educator and longtime school principal, I know that salad bars are an innovative way for children to get the healthy, nutrient-rich foods they need to learn and grow. In all my time as a school principal, I have never seen my students more excited about lunch than when we brought in a salad bar. I am excited to be working with Congressman Ryan and Congressman Farr to introduce the Salad Bars in Schools Expansion Act and ensuring it is included in the reauthorization of the Child Nutrition Act,” said Rep. Frederica S. Wilson. “United Fresh Produce Association supports the introduction of the Salad Bar in Schools Expansion Act and thanks Congressman Ryan for his leadership. This bill will enhance students access to fresh fruits and vegetables at school lunch and help to transform school food environments. Salad bars are an effective strategy to increase fruit and vegetable consumption, introduce kids to a wide variety of fruits and vegetables, and one of the easiest ways for schools to successfully implement healthier school lunch standards,” Tom Stenzel, President and CEO, United Fresh Produce Association. “Instead of lining up our kids for pepperoni pizza, let’s make sure salad bars encourage them to choose fruits, vegetables, and beans every day,” said Colin Schwartz, Director of Government Affairs, Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine This legislation has been endorsed by the United Fresh Produce Association, Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, the American Heart Association, The Ohio State University, Ohio Produce Growers and Marketing Association, the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, Real Food for Kids, U.S. Apple Association, National Potato Council, National Watermelon Association, the Western Growers, California Fresh Fruit Association, Florida Fruit and Vegetable Association, Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, Grower-Shipper Association of Central California, New York Apple Association, Texas Citrus Mutual, Texas International Produce Association, and the Texas Vegetable Association. Full text of legislation can be viewed here.
06.03.2015	
05.26.2015	This Memorial Day, set time aside to pay tribute to the courageous men and women who lost their lives in the service of our great nation. Through these patriots’ sacrifice, we still enjoy the liberty and equality that come with living in the United States of America. So as we spend time with friends and family at barbeques, ballgames and backyard gatherings let us also reflect upon those veterans who dedicated their lives to defend and preserve the enduring freedoms that are often taken for granted. Even in difficult times, we remember that through their ultimate sacrifice, America remains strong and continues to be a beacon of hope. Sincerely,
05.26.2015	Washington, DC - Representatives Tim Ryan and Glenn “GT” Thompson today introduced the “Veteran Wellness Act,” bipartisan legislation that will improve Veteran Service Organizations’ (VSO) ability to promote good health among our nation’s veterans. Veterans across the country turn to these organizations to participate in a wide variety of programs to build and cultivate a community of support among fellow veterans. These facilities are a place of comfort and familiarity for thousands of men and women and their families. The legislation would expand upon what these organizations are currently doing and create a greater number of opportunities for veterans to access wellness programs and therapies. “As we approach the end of Mental Health Month and Memorial Day, we reflect on the sacrifices these men and women have made for our country and democracy. There is no doubt that our veterans and returning soldiers deserve a greater level of assistance and care than what is already available to them,” said Rep. Tim Ryan. “By increasing our veterans’ access to integrative therapies and wellness activities, they will have a better chance of getting and staying healthy in both mind and body. This legislation has the support of both the American Legion and the National Guard Association of the United States and should be passed as quickly as possible so these men and women can receive the health services they need.” “Veteran Service Organizations provide critical resources to those service members transitioning back to civilian life,” said Rep. Thompson. “The Veteran Wellness Act will build upon the existing transitional services made available and offer more options for veterans to access wellness programs and therapies. We owe these brave men and women no less.” “On behalf of more than 2 million members of The American Legion, I express our support for the Veteran Wellness Act. This legislation would assist veterans by facilitating their participation in holistic and alternative wellness programs such as meditation and Tai-Chi within a community environment,” said Michael D. Helm, National Commander of The American Legion. “The American Legion supports the Veteran Wellness Act and applauds Congressman Ryan and Thompson’s leadership in addressing this critical issue facing our nation’s veterans and their families.” The Veteran Wellness Act would create a grant program through the Department of Veteran Affairs for VSOs to assist with the modernization and improvement of their facilities to be used for wellness activities. Grant funding will also be provided to expand the ability of VSOs to offer classes that focus on the wellbeing of a veteran through complementary and integrative therapies.
05.26.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan is announcing a federal grant in the amount of $1,534,367.00 for Ohio North East (ONE) Health Systems, Inc. that will allow the organization to implement a fully integrated service model for their patients that will include medical, dental and behavioral health services. ONE Health Ohio has provided medical and dental services in northeastern Ohio for the past 28 years.“I would like to congratulate Dr. Ron Dwinnels and his staff at ONE Health Ohio for receiving this important grant,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Nearly 44 million adult Americans experience a mental illness in a given year. The numbers do not lie - the need for mental health services in the United States is at a critical point. We need to reduce the barriers to care, and increase access to behavioral health treatment, and I am glad that ONE Health Ohio is leading the charge.” The grant program originated in the Affordable Care Act, which called for mental health service expansion and behavioral health care integration.
05.19.2015	Congressman Tim Ryan today issued the following statement on the passage of the Highway and Transportation Funding Act, which extends the Highway Trust Fund by two months: I voted today in favor of the two-month extension of the Highway Trust Fund, because both our private and public sectors’ success depends on a long-term Highway Trust Fund to ensure our roads, bridges, rail and water lines are safe, secure and ready for business. However, I still believe our country needs a long-term reauthorization bill and this two-month extension of the Highway Trust Fund put forth by House Republican leadership is a clear dereliction of duty. They have apparently decided that multi-year funding for transportation projects and protecting hundreds of thousands of good-paying jobs is no longer worth their time. American businesses and labor groups across the United States have come together and in a united voice called on Congress to pass a long-term transportation bill. Everyone agrees that our country has serious infrastructure needs and without action the American people and businesses will rapidly feel the negative economic impact. Congress needs to enact a multi-year transportation bill that provides the adequate funding and economic certainty our citizens and public sector need. It’s time to do the right thing.
05.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, as new, lower interest rates were announced for student loans for the 2015-2016 school year, Congressman Tim Ryan called on House Republican leaders to schedule a vote on the Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act (H.R. 1434), which Congressman Ryan is a cosponsor. “I call on Speaker Boehner to immediately bring this legislation in front of the House for a vote. The price of college tuition in our country has increased by 1,200% since 1978, and our young people are drowning in the student loans they were forced to take out to cover these astounding costs. It’s common sense that we should allow those with existing student loans to have access to the lower interest rates available to new borrowers. “What kind of future are we creating for our nation if our young people are strapped so much debt coming out of college that it’s impossible to buy a home, start a business or begin investing in their future? This is the reality for the majority of college graduates today, and we need to change this destructive system that is keeping Americans in perpetual debt. Passing this legislation is a small step that can help improve the financial wellbeing of hundreds of thousands in Ohio and across the nation, but it’s critical that we make comprehensive changes to the way we pay for higher education in the United States of America.” This legislation would allow borrowers with high interest rates on their existing student loans in both the public and private markets to refinance these existing loans to lower interest rates. Under the bill, for undergraduate student loans, borrowers could refinance to an interest rate of 3.86 percent. Currently, some borrowers are paying interest rates as high as 7 percent on their existing loans. Students enrolling in class this fall will benefit from lower interest rates, stemming from passage of the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act in 2013, which Congressman Ryan voted in support of the Senate compromise bill which was signed by president Obama in August of 2013.
05.13.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan, member of the Appropriations Transportation and Housing and Urban Development (T-HUD) Subcommittee, today called for full funding of Amtrak in the wake of the tragic Philadelphia Amtrak crash. Congressman Ryan voted in favor of an amendment during full Committee markup of the Fiscal Year 2016 T-HUD bill to provide Amtrak the full $2.45 billion in funding requested in President Obama’s budget. “While it is too early to have a full understanding of the cause of last night’s tragedy, it is the Appropriations Committee and Congress’s responsibility to provide the resources necessary to ensure the safety and reliability of our nation’s railways,” said Congressman Ryan. “Each and every day tens of thousands of Americans rely on Amtrak, and their safety should be our first priority. That is why I am calling on House Republicans do the right thing and reconsider this heartless reduction in funding for Amtrak.” The tragic Amtrak crash in Philadelphia took place just hours before the Appropriations Committee began its markup of the Fiscal Year 2016 T-HUD bill, which would provide a mere $1.14 billion for Amtrak, which is $251 million less than the 2015 enacted level and $1.31 billion less than the President’s budget request, causing Amtrak to defer critical maintenance and capital investment. The amendment failed by a vote of 21-30.
05.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and U.S. Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH-13) today introduced legislation to ensure that veterans, students serving in the armed forces, and their qualifying dependents, can take full advantage of the federal education benefits they have earned for themselves and their families. The Veterans Priority Enrollment Act of 2015 allows veterans using their GI benefits to attain priority enrollment at four-year institutions so that they can finish their degrees before their benefits expire. The bill would not require colleges or universities to change their existing priority enrollment systems. “The men and women who selflessly served our nation were promised an opportunity for higher education with the GI Bill – this legislation will ensure that they can do so without delay and before their benefits expire, said Congressman Ryan. “As we have seen at a similar program at Youngstown State University, it is important to not only train our veterans to be prepared for service, but also give them opportunities to succeed when they return home.” “Just as we invest in and train our men and women during their service, we must do so when they return to their communities,” Brown said. “This bill would ensure that our nation’s veterans can take full advantage of the college education that they’ve earned.” Because veterans have a limited amount of time before their GI Bill education benefits expire, priority enrollment policies – like those available to student athletes – would ensure veterans can complete their course work before funding runs out. Under the Post-9/11 GI Bill, benefits are limited to up to 36 months. If a student veteran is shut out of required course work prior to their benefits expiring he or she may not be able to attain a degree or could be forced to pay tuition and fees out of pocket. Ohio has been a leader on this issue. Under a law passed in June 2014 and enacted in January 2015, all public higher education institutions must provide veterans with priority enrollment for classes.
05.08.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement today after Akron Mayor Don Plusquellic announced his resignation and retirement: “I am deeply disappointed to hear that Mayor Don Plusquellic is resigning as Mayor of Akron. Mayor Plusquellic has been a great partner whose leadership has transformed Akron. He is innovative, a creative problem solver and a passionate advocate. His accomplishments are many. He took calculated risks, tried his best to solve problems and was never afraid to work with leaders from different political parties. I'm sad to see him leave. No one has worked harder, longer, or with greater commitment to public service than Don. I pledge to work closely with the new mayor to continue the great progress that Mayor Plusquellic brought to Akron and Northeast Ohio.”
05.06.2015	Congressman Tim Ryan Applauds the Inclusion of $5 Million for Local Reservoirs in House Appropriations Bill Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan applauds the inclusion of almost $5 million in funding for local reservoirs in the FY2016 House Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill. Lake Berlin was appropriated $2,360,000, Mosquito Creek Lake was appropriated $1,429,000, and Michael J. Kirwan Dam and Reservoir was appropriated $1,201,000. “I’m pleased that this funding was included in this legislation and I was happy to lend my support for these provisions throughout the committee process. These lakes and reservoirs protect out communities from flooding and provide recreational areas for our residents to enjoy. This vital funding will ensure that our local bodies of water have the maintenance and updates they need,” said Congressman Ryan. Congressman Ryan is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and strongly supported these inclusions throughout the committee markup process. This legislation passed the House of Representatives and must pass the Senate and be signed by the President before taking effect. Michael J. Kirwan Dam & Reservoir Michael J. Kirwan Dam and Reservoir is one of the 16 flood control projects in the Pittsburgh district. The project provides floods protection of the Mahoning River Valley and the run Beaver and upper Ohio River. Kirwan has the capability to store the equivalent run-off of 18.30 inches of precipitation from its 80.5 square mile drainage area. The dam is location on the West Branch of the Mahoning river about 12.0 miles above the junction of the branch and the Mahoning river at newton falls, OH. The reservoir is located entirely within Portage County, OH. Appropriated funds will be used to perform operation and maintenance of the dam structure as well as continue activities related to reservoir management operations comprising water management, environmental stewardship, and operation and maintenance of public use facilities. Funds will be further used for repairs to deteriorating recreation facilities. This project supports more than 60 jobs, and has prevented more than $764 million in damage since its completion in 1965. The estimated construction cost of $20 million appears small when compared to these savings. Mosquito Creek Lake Mosquito Creek Lake is a multi-purpose reservoir. This project provides flood protection for the Mahoning River Valley as well as the Beaver and upper Ohio Rivers. Mosquito has the capability to store the equivalent run-off of 29 inches of precipitation from its 97 square mile damage area. The dam is on Mosquito Creek, 12.6 miles upstream from its junction with the Mahoning Rover at Niles, Ohio. The reservoir is located entirely in Trumbull County, Ohio. A feature unique to Mosquito Creek Lake is its use of an uncontrolled natural spillway. The natural spillway is located at the upper end of the lake in a low-lying reach of the Mosquito Creek-Grand River Divide. The elevation of the spillway at the point of divide is such that if an impoundment of flood waters should fill the lake, to an elevation of 904 feet above sea level, the southerly outflow of the lake would be reserved. The outflow would then be discharged through the natural spillway into a tributary of the Grand River which flows north into Lake Erie. Appropriation funds will be used to perform operation and maintenance of the dam structure as well as continue activities related to reservoir management operations comprising water management, environmental stewardship, and operation and maintenance of public use facilities. Funds will be further used for repairs to deteriorating recreation facilities. This project supports more than 160 jobs, and has prevented more than $419 million in damage since its competition in 1944. Mosquito Creek Lake also stores water and releases it downstream during the dry periods to improve water quality and quantity for domestic and industrial use, recreation, esthetics, and aquatic life. Berlin Lake Berlin Lake is a multipurpose reservoir. The project provides flood protection for the Mahoning River Valley as well as for the Beaver and Upper Ohio Rivers. The project has the capability to store the equivalent run-off of 6.9 inches of precipitation from its 249 square mile drainage area. The dam is located on the Mahoning River in Mahoning and Portage Counties, Ohio, about 10 miles upstream from Milton Dam (Non-Federal Project) about 35 miles upstream from Warren, Ohio. The lake is located in Mahoning, Portage, and Stark Counties. Berlin Lake is home to the largest campground in the Pittsburgh District with more than 348 campsites, and it has four boat launch ramps. Visitors can further enjoy hiking trials, picnic areas, electrical hookups, restrooms and showers. Appropriated funds will be used to perform operation and maintenance of the dam structure as well as continue activities related to reservoir management operations comprising water management, environmental stewardship, and operation and maintenance of public use facilities. Funds will be further used for repairs to deteriorating recreation facilities. This project supports more than 300 jobs, and has prevented over $1.7 billion in damage since its completion in 1943. The lake serves as a water supply for the Mahoning Valley Sanitary District.
05.06.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement after voting against the Republican Budget Conference Report, which passed the House of Representatives: “This ‘Work Harder for Less’ budget makes it more difficult for American families to buy a home, afford a college education and retire comfortably. Proving how out of touch Congressional Republicans are with the issues important to average American families, they had the audacity to increase taxes on the middle class by $2,000 in order to pay for a $200,000 tax break for millionaires. Furthermore, this budget cuts necessary programs, like the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), that helps our countries most vulnerable citizens. The State of Ohio has an estimated 340,000 families under the poverty line, now is not the time to turn our backs on the people that need our help the most. Experts project that the Republican budget will destroy millions of jobs and decrease the United States economic growth – Is this really the direction we want to take our country?” Congressman Tim Ryan serves on the House Budget Committee.
05.06.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today on the inclusion of $12.7 million for area bases in the Fiscal Year 2016 House Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill (MILCON/VA) that passed the House of Representatives tonight. The bill appropriates $9.4 million to the Youngstown Air Reserve Station (YARS) to upgrade their Indoor Firing Range and appropriates $3.3 million to the Ravenna Joint Military Training Center for a Modified Record Fire Range. Congressman Tim Ryan sits on the House Appropriations Committee and strongly supported these funding inclusions. “I am pleased that funding for the Youngstown Air Reserve Station and Camp Ravenna was included in this year’s MILCON/VA Appropriations Bill. This funding will give our Airmen and Soldiers the training facilities necessary to remain combat ready and complete their missions.” said Congressman Ryan. “Each and every day, the men and women stationed in Youngstown and Camp Ravenna put their lives on the line for our safety and it is our job to give them the resources they need. I am proud to have supported our Airmen and Soldiers through my position on the House Appropriations Committee and I’ll continue to work to ensure these vital funds get to YARS and Camp Ravenna.” Furthermore, during the House Floor consideration of this legislation Congressman Steve King offered an amendment that would repeal the Davis-Bacon Act. Congressman Ryan voted against this amendment, which repeals a measure passed by Republicans in 1931 to ensure that construction projects were not awarded to contractors who underbid their competition by paying lower wages and refusing to offer healthcare or retirement benefits. Prevailing wage laws are based on surveys of the wages and job benefits in the communities that the projects will be done. “I am appalled by Congressional Republicans continued attack on the wages and benefits of hard working American families. They are unrelenting in their quest to rip what few protections the middle class has left from corporate interests. This economic race to the bottom must come to an end. Our economy is dependent on having a skilled workforce that can earn livable wages and benefits, and it is disgusting that Congressional Republicans want to strip them of their dignity just to ensure that big business can add a little more to their already ballooning bottom-line,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. Studies show that workers in states with prevailing wage laws are more productive, with 13% to 15% higher added value than states without these protections. Further, the Davis-Bacon Act does not protect “union” wages, it simply sets wage and benefit standards for federally assisted construction projects to ensure workers are not exploited.
04.29.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today in response to the International Trade Commission’s (ITC) unanimous renewal of antidumping and countervailing duty orders on oil country tubular goods (OCTG) from China: “I am pleased that the International Trade Commission has agreed to keep in place trade rules that allow our country to stay competitive. This decision proves that China remains steadfast in their attempts to undermine American industries and our workforce, and I will continue to do everything in my power to combat these unlawful attacks. American manufacturing is the backbone of our nation. We have the hardest working, most productive workforce in the world, but they need a level playing field. I am pleased that this ruling allows them to continue to compete globally,” said Congressman Ryan. Full ITC Press Release can be found here.
04.29.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today regarding tomorrow’s United States Supreme Court hearing of Obergefell v. Hodges, a consolidation of six lawsuits from Ohio, Kentucky, Michigan and Tennessee. The namesake of this landmark lawsuit is Cincinnati native Jim Obergefell, who married his partner of 20 years on a Baltimore tarmac in 2013 (same-sex marriage is legal in Maryland). Mr. Obergefell’s husband, John Arthur, died three months later from ALS (Lou Gehrig’s disease), and since Ohio does not recognize same-sex marriage, the state refused to list Mr. Obergefell as Mr. Arthur’s spouse on his death certificate. This action led to this lawsuit that could overturn Ohio’s ban and establish a national right to same-sex marriage. “Mr. Obergefell’s story is just one snapshot of the heartbreak that couples must endure in states across the country that, like Ohio, deny recognition based soley on who or where they chose to marry. I call on the Supreme Court to do the right thing and end these discriminatory LGBT laws and establish a national right to same-sex marriage. It’s clear that marriage is not a state issue, it’s national. When I travel with my wife, our marriage is recognized no matter which state we are visiting. There is no reason the same should not be applied to any Ohioan who chooses to marry outside our state. All of our sons and daughters, brothers and sisters, nieces and nephews, friends and neighbors should be able to live and work with the same rights and benefits as everyone else. I will continue to stand beside all of those fighting for equal rights and benefits under the law,” said Congressman Ryan. The United States Supreme Court will hear arguments on Obergefell v. Hodges tomorrow and release their decision in June.
04.29.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today on the inclusion of $12.7 million for area bases in the Fiscal Year 2016 House Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill (MIL-CON). The bill appropriates $9.4 million to Youngstown Air Reserve Station (YARS) to upgrade their Indoor Firing Range and appropriates $3.3 million to the Ravenna Joint Military Training Center for a Modified Record Fire Range. Congressman Tim Ryan sits on the House Appropriations Committee and strongly supported these funding inclusions. “I am pleased that funding for the Youngstown Air Reserve Station and Camp Ravenna was included in this year’s MIL-CON Appropriations Bill. This funding will give our Airmen and Soldiers the training facilities necessary to remain combat ready and complete their missions.” said Congressman Ryan. “Each and every day, the men and women stationed in Youngstown and Camp Ravenna put their lives on the line for our safety and it is our job to give them the resources they need. I am proud to have supported our Airmen and Soldiers through my position on the House Appropriations Committee and I’ll continue to work to ensure these vital funds get to YARS and Camp Ravenna.” The MIL-CON Appropriations Bill passed the House Appropriations Committee by a voice vote and is awaiting a vote by the full House of Representatives. Youngstown Air Reserve Station: Firing Range Construct indoor firing range to replace existing undersized, outdated and degraded range. Currently, the range does not meet AFI 32-1084 requirements and falls short of Engineering Technical Letter 11-18: Small Arms Range Design and Construction. The current length of 32M (104 FT) is inadequate as it hampers the stations ability to fire critical training weapons such as the M-240, 203 Grenade launcher and 50 Cal. A project to replace the current range would provide year round training, meeting absolute mobility standards to fight the war of terrorism. Candidate for demolition IAW Air Force goals. Camp Ravenna: Modified Record Fire Range The Camp Ravenna Joint Military Training Center Modified Record Fire Range is a multifunctional range to be constructed in fiscal year 2016 at a cost of 3.3 million dollars. The range consists of 16 lanes, each with Stationary Individual Target emplacements at a variety of ranges from 50 meters to 300 meters. The Stationary Individual Target emplacements pop up for a programmed amount of time and then drop if not engaged with a well-aimed shot. The firing program allows for multiple targets to pop up at the same time giving Soldiers a realistic scenario to qualify with their individual weapons and to engage multiple targets at the same time. The actual Soldier firing points are hardened positions with three poured concrete walls to the sides and front with the back open for walk-in access. The Modified Record Fire Range design includes a complete support package of facilities consisting of a range tower, ammunition breakdown building, classroom, operations building with a range storage facility attached, a small dining area and a latrine. The Modified Record Fire Range at the Camp Ravenna Joint Military Training Center will be the second in Ohio giving soldiers in the Northeast part of the state an opportunity to qualify on a pop-up range without traveling to Camp Perry.
04.29.2015	Washington, DC – Representative Tim Ryan (OH-13), Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11), and Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) today introduced H.R. 1988, the BREAKING ADDICTION ACT OF 2015. This legislation addresses a significant barrier to accessing inpatient treatment as our nation grapples with an epidemic of heroin and opiate related deaths. Further, it increases states’ flexibility under their Medicaid programs to cover treatment for substance use disorders (SUDs) in expanded or additional community-based facilities. Under current federal law, a section of the Medicaid statute, known as the institutions for mental diseases (IMD) exclusion, prohibits Medicaid matching payments for services provided in treatment facilities that have more than 16 beds. The Breaking Addiction Act directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to accept applications to waive the IMD exclusion from states that seek to provide comprehensive addiction treatment in their jurisdictions. The bill would specifically facilitate reimbursements to states that cover medical assistance to treat an SUD in an IMD of not more than 60 beds. “Each day I turn on the news and hear another devastating story about a life taken too soon because of heroin or prescription drug abuse. As a country, we must do more to ensure these men and women get the access to the care that is desperately needed, and that means taking a hard look at our current treatment structure. That is why I am proud to join Congresswoman Fudge in introducing the Breaking Addiction Act, which addresses the growing drug crisis and increases access to addiction treatment. Not another day should go by that a person can’t find help due to this outdated system. As Democratic Co-Chair of the Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus, I will continue to urge my congressional colleagues to move this legislation forward and help stem this harmful slide,” said Congressman Ryan. “Only one out of nine Americans who suffers from substance abuse gets treated. Many of these individuals sought care, but were turned away due to a lack of treatment beds. In 2014, 252 heroin-related deaths occurred in Cuyahoga and Summit Counties. This is unacceptable. The Breaking Addiction Act provides the means to save lives in a responsible manner and it does so without adding to the federal deficit,” said Congresswoman Fudge. “Drug addiction is a debilitating disease, and the people who suffer from it deserve the same standard of care available to anyone else who gets sick in this country,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “This legislation is urgently needed as rates of heroin overdose, prescription drug abuse and other forms of addiction are rising at an alarming rate, especially in our region. This budget-neutral approach rises to meet that need by expanding access to mental health treatment and allowing mental health facilities to expand without losing federal support. Members of our community are suffering. This would help them break the cycle of addiction and make our health care system work better for everyone. Let’s get it done.” The Breaking Addiction Act of 2015 replaces and updates legislation introduced by Reps. Fudge and Ryan in 2014. By utilizing waivers that are required to be budget neutral to the federal government, this bill is not only cost efficient but is also expected to result in savings due to system wide reductions in the cost of untreated addiction. See a list of frequently asked questions about the legislation here. Click here to read the text of the bill.
04.29.2015	Ravenna, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan announces today that the Ravenna Fire Department, the Alliance Fire Department, and the Atwater Fire Department have been awarded over $430,000 in grants from the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). The Ravenna Fire Department was granted $113,753, the Alliance Fire Department was awarded $253,455, and the Atwater Fire Department was awarded $64,762. “This is great news for the firefighters working to protect our local community,” said Congressman Ryan. “It is important that we make safety of the utmost importance when it comes to the firefighters who put their life on the line every day. These types of federal grants are important to ensure that local fire departments have adequate funding for the resources they need to keep our community safe. I will continue to fight to bring these grants to Northeast Ohio.” The goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and emergency medical service organizations. Operations and Safety grants can be used for professional training, wellness and fitness programs equipment, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critical equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards.
04.29.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan, along with a bipartisan group including U.S. Representatives Randy Hultgren (R-IL-14), Dan Lipinski (D-IL-03), Vicky Hartzler (R-MO-04), Cheri Bustos (D-IL-17), Matt Salmon (R-AZ-05) and Keith Rothfus (R-PA-12) today introduced the Air Traffic Controllers Hiring Act of 2015, a bill reversing the effects of the Federal Aviation Authority’s (FAA) interim hiring procedures which have passed over the most qualified air traffic controller candidates and raised concerns of safety and transparency. “When it comes to the safety of Americans who put their trust in our airlines, it is crucial that we hire the best and the brightest to serve as our air traffic controllers,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “I have had highly qualified individuals from my own Congressional District who have been pushed aside by a FAA hiring process that is illogical and dangerous. This legislation, which should be passed as quickly as possible, will make sure that FAA hiring procedures are changed and that only the most qualified are hired. I urge Congressman Bill Shuster, the Chairman of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, to hold a hearing examining the FAA’s hiring practices as soon as possible.” “On behalf of the Kent State community, I would like to thank Congressman Ryan and the sponsors of this legislation for advocating on behalf of our many students who are preparing to become the air traffic controllers of tomorrow,” said Dr. Beverly J. Warren, President of Kent State University. “As Ohio's only air traffic control CTI school, we applaud Congressman Ryan for co-sponsoring the Air Traffic Controllers Hiring Act of 2015. This legislation recognizes the important role that CTI schools play in training our nation’s air traffic controllers and keeping our skies safe. We hope that by restoring preferred status for CTI programs and eliminating the use of a Biographical Assessment, the hiring process for skilled controllers will be more efficient and equitable,” said Maureen McFarland, Senior Academic Program Director for Aeronautics at Kent State University. For decades, the FAA has relied on qualified veterans and colleges and universities to prepare air traffic controllers through the Collegiate Training Initiative (CTI), ensuring candidates are well-trained for the position. Last year, the FAA suddenly changed its hiring practices with few details given about how the changes would be implemented and with little advance warning. There are strong signs that the procedures now being used by the FAA have resulted in unjust economic injury to candidates who have been disqualified. Further, many have “aged out” after turning 31 during the application process, thus becoming ineligible for the job for which they were specifically trained. Among other provisions, the bill would restore preferred status for CTI graduates with school recommendations and qualified veterans back into the hiring process. A qualified individual maintaining practical air traffic control experience obtained at FAA air traffic control facilities and civilian installations of the Department of Defense would also receive preferential consideration. Use of the Biographical Assessment would be eliminated and candidates who aged out of the interim hiring process or were deemed unqualified by the Bio Q would have the chance to reapply.
04.29.2015	Washington, DC – Representatives Tim Ryan, David Joyce and Marcy Kaptur today introduced bipartisan legislation to require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to appoint a coordinator to address the issue of harmful algal blooms in the Great Lakes, which affected over a half million Ohioans last year. Lake Erie supports over 117,000 fulltime jobs and provides drinking water to approximately 3 million Ohioans. This legislation will ensure that there is a coordinator at the EPA to work with the appropriate federal agencies and state, local, tribal and foreign governments to address this critical issue affecting the state of Ohio. “I am proud to introduce this legislation that will put a full time coordinator within the EPA to ensure our fresh water is safe from harmful algal blooms,” said Rep. Ryan. “It is our duty as Ohioans to ensure that Lake Erie and the Great Lakes are able to thrive. Ohio’s abundance of fresh water is a vital resource and strategic advantage, and it’s critical that we do everything in our power to combat these harmful algal blooms that threaten the health and well-being of our state.” "The Great Lakes need our full time attention, so it only makes sense that we put someone on the job full time.” Rep. Joyce said "We are talking about drinking water for 40 million people, so we need to keep our eye on the ball. We can’t afford not take this step to ensure our Great Lakes are preserved and protected. “This legislation reflects the kind of long-term strategic planning necessary to track and prevent algal blooms now and in the future,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Assigning a point person not only ensures EPA takes responsibility for our federal algal bloom response, it creates accountability. This is especially important as we move into another algal bloom season and ramp up investments in algal bloom research, tracking and prevention initiatives. I am pleased to work with Representatives Ryan and Joyce to move this proposal forward and I strongly urge my colleagues in the House and Senate to adopt this simple and urgently-needed measure without delay.” This legislation has been endorsed by the Ohio Environmental Council, Freshwater Future, the Alliance for the Great Lakes, the Healing Our Waters-Great Lakes Coalition, and the Ohio Charter Boat Association. "No community can afford to risk even a day without water because of toxic algae," said Kristy Meyer, Managing Director of Agricultural, Health & Clean Water Programs at the Ohio Environmental Council. "Congressman Ryan, Congressman Joyce and Congresswoman Kaptur are right to propose a coordinator within the EPA to coordinate federal, state, local, international, and tribal efforts to limit the loading of phosphorus and other excessive nutrients to our Great Lake waters." "We thank Representatives Tim Ryan, David Joyce, and Marcy Kaptur for introducing this important legislation to create a nutrient coordinator to help us solve the harmful algal crisis in Lake Erie. We applaud this bi-partisan effort to move us forward toward renewed Great Lakes health," said Jill Ryan, Executive Director for Freshwater Future. “Harmful algal blooms threaten the economy and quality of life for communities across the Great Lakes region. The Alliance for the Great Lakes appreciates the bi-partisan efforts of Rep. Tim Ryan, Rep. David Joyce, and Rep. Marcy Kaptur to ensure that government agencies are coordinating to address this critical issue,” said Molly M. Flanagan, Vice President of Policy at the Alliance for the Great Lakes. “We thank Reps. Tim Ryan, David Joyce and Marcy Kaptur for introducing a bill that will strengthen our efforts at stopping farm runoff and harmful algal blooms. We’re seeing results through important efforts like the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, but we know more needs to be done, which is why it’s essential we have an orchestra conductor who can ensure that resources are being invested in the most efficient and effective way possible,” said Chad Lord, policy director with the Healing Our Waters-Great Lakes Coalition. “On behalf of the Lake Erie Charter Boat Association, we’d like to thank Representatives, Ryan, Joyce and Kaptur for their actions to create a Nutrient Coordinator position with the EPA. This position is the missing piece that is needed in the Great Lakes to coordinate the efforts being undertaken in the western Lake Erie basin, including ensuring the coordination and collating of monitoring data,” said Paul Pacholski, President of the Ohio Charter Boat Association.
04.29.2015	Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today in response to the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives joint introduction of Fast Track Trade Promotion Authority: The trade agreements over the last twenty years, beginning with NAFTA, have decimated the middle class in the United States of America. By passing Fast Track, Congress is relinquishing all if its negotiating power and taking away any of our ability to play an active role in making sure this trade agreement works for the American people. It is the responsibility of those elected to Congress to have our ears to the ground and to negotiate on behalf of the interests of our constituents. However, by passing Fast Track we will be giving up our seat at the table and our ability to give our constituents a voice in the debate. Why would we hand over this immense power to the Executive branch? In Northeast, Ohio I have watched as steel mills have closed, I have sat in Union Halls and empathized with families who have lost their jobs due to downsizing, and I have watched communities struggle to recover from a loss of industry. We saw what NAFTA did to our region and across the country, and we saw the rippling affect it had throughout every aspect of our economy. We cannot stand by and allow this Administration to end-run around Congress in order to pass a wide-reaching trade agreement that could prove just as destructive as those that came before it. I stand in staunch opposition to this legislation and I call on the Administration and my Congressional colleagues to reconsider this short-sighted and dangerous trade agreement.
04.21.2015	Washington, DC – Representatives Tim Ryan, David Joyce and Marcy Kaptur today introduced bipartisan legislation to require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to appoint a coordinator to address the issue of harmful algal blooms in the Great Lakes, which affected over a half million Ohioans last year. Lake Erie supports over 117,000 fulltime jobs and provides drinking water to approximately 3 million Ohioans. This legislation will ensure that there is a coordinator at the EPA to work with the appropriate federal agencies and state, local, tribal and foreign governments to address this critical issue affecting the state of Ohio. “I am proud to introduce this legislation that will put a full time coordinator within the EPA to ensure our fresh water is safe from harmful algal blooms,” said Rep. Ryan. “It is our duty as Ohioans to ensure that Lake Erie and the Great Lakes are able to thrive. Ohio’s abundance of fresh water is a vital resource and strategic advantage, and it’s critical that we do everything in our power to combat these harmful algal blooms that threaten the health and well-being of our state.” "The Great Lakes need our full time attention, so it only makes sense that we put someone on the job full time.” Rep. Joyce said "We are talking about drinking water for 40 million people, so we need to keep our eye on the ball. We can’t afford not take this step to ensure our Great Lakes are preserved and protected. “This legislation reflects the kind of long-term strategic planning necessary to track and prevent algal blooms now and in the future,” said Rep. Kaptur. “Assigning a point person not only ensures EPA takes responsibility for our federal algal bloom response, it creates accountability. This is especially important as we move into another algal bloom season and ramp up investments in algal bloom research, tracking and prevention initiatives. I am pleased to work with Representatives Ryan and Joyce to move this proposal forward and I strongly urge my colleagues in the House and Senate to adopt this simple and urgently-needed measure without delay.” This legislation has been endorsed by the Ohio Environmental Council, Freshwater Future, the Alliance for the Great Lakes, the Healing Our Waters-Great Lakes Coalition, and the Ohio Charter Boat Association. "No community can afford to risk even a day without water because of toxic algae," said Kristy Meyer, Managing Director of Agricultural, Health & Clean Water Programs at the Ohio Environmental Council. "Congressman Ryan, Congressman Joyce and Congresswoman Kaptur are right to propose a coordinator within the EPA to coordinate federal, state, local, international, and tribal efforts to limit the loading of phosphorus and other excessive nutrients to our Great Lake waters." "We thank Representatives Tim Ryan, David Joyce, and Marcy Kaptur for introducing this important legislation to create a nutrient coordinator to help us solve the harmful algal crisis in Lake Erie. We applaud this bi-partisan effort to move us forward toward renewed Great Lakes health," said Jill Ryan, Executive Director for Freshwater Future. “Harmful algal blooms threaten the economy and quality of life for communities across the Great Lakes region. The Alliance for the Great Lakes appreciates the bi-partisan efforts of Rep. Tim Ryan, Rep. David Joyce, and Rep. Marcy Kaptur to ensure that government agencies are coordinating to address this critical issue,” said Molly M. Flanagan, Vice President of Policy at the Alliance for the Great Lakes. “We thank Reps. Tim Ryan, David Joyce and Marcy Kaptur for introducing a bill that will strengthen our efforts at stopping farm runoff and harmful algal blooms. We’re seeing results through important efforts like the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, but we know more needs to be done, which is why it’s essential we have an orchestra conductor who can ensure that resources are being invested in the most efficient and effective way possible,” said Chad Lord, policy director with the Healing Our Waters-Great Lakes Coalition. “On behalf of the Lake Erie Charter Boat Association, we’d like to thank Representatives, Ryan, Joyce and Kaptur for their actions to create a Nutrient Coordinator position with the EPA. This position is the missing piece that is needed in the Great Lakes to coordinate the efforts being undertaken in the western Lake Erie basin, including ensuring the coordination and collating of monitoring data,” said Paul Pacholski, President of the Ohio Charter Boat Association.
04.14.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today is announcing his support for the Police CAMERA Act of 2015 (HR 1680), which would build on the effectiveness of the In-Car Camera Incentive Program. By providing resources so that local law enforcement agencies can begin body-worn camera pilot programs this legislation aims to make our streets and communities safer. It would also study the impacts of body-worn cameras on excessive use of force and develop protocols for protecting individuals’ privacy rights. Preliminary evidence shows that in places where police have these types of pilot programs there has been a drop in incidents of excessive use of force and complaints against police. “Police body cameras will help restore trust between our police departments and the people they serve. Studies have found that body-worn cameras reduced the use of force by 50 percent and complaints against police by 90 percent compared to the previous year," said Congressman Ryan. "Passage of this legislation will provide federal resources to our local enforcement agencies and pay up to 75% of the total cost of body-worn cameras. This program will enhance officer safety, increase accountability and hopefully begin the long needed healing process in communities in Ohio and across the nation.” The CAMERA Act of 2015 would establish a pilot grant program through the Office of Justice Programs in the Department of Justice using existing funding to assist state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies with purchasing or leasing body-worn cameras and other implementation costs. Grantees must develop protocols for the safe and effective use of body-worn cameras, including data management and the protection of privacy rights. Grantees must also collect and report data on the use of force and the disposition of complaints against officers. A companion bill, S.877, has also been introduced in the U.S. Senate.
04.14.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan applauds U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn) for introducing the Jesse Lewis Empowering Educators Act to provide teachers powerful tools and training to support students’ social and emotional learning (SEL). The bill is named in honor of Jesse Lewis, who at six years old was tragically killed at Sandy Hook Elementary School. This is the Senate companion legislation for Congressman Ryan’s Academic , Social and Emotional Learning Act, which was introduced in the House of Representatives in February of this year. This legislation would amend the Elementary and Secondary Education Act so that existing professional development funding could be used to train teachers in concepts related to social and emotional learning. “In the wake of personal and national tragedy, Scarlett Lewis looked to the future and began the Jesse Lewis Choose Love Foundation to promote social and emotional learning in schools across the nation. As a father, I understand that our number one priority should be that every child feels safe and secure in school and at home. Social and emotional learning teaches students skills that will help on both fronts,” said Congressman Ryan. “I have seen firsthand what teaching SEL can do for students and their classrooms in Ohio and across the nation. These programs are scientifically proven to help students increase skills in problem-solving, conflict resolution, responsible decision-making and relationship building – these are the tools that will build the foundation for students to perform better academically and throughout their lives. Now is the time to promote programs that create a safer and more secure school culture in America.” "My personal commitment to this vital initiative grew from the horrific, painful days after Sandy Hook, when I sat in Scarlett Lewis’ living room and heard and saw Jesse's awe-inspiring courage and caring through his words and photos. Jesse had emotional intelligence way beyond his years-- gifts of empathy, resilience, self-awareness, confidence and compassion, love and hope-- which we can instill in students nationwide if teachers are given the right tools and training. Countless studies and common sense show that children who learn to manage their emotions, play and interact positively with their peers, and constructively resolve conflicts are less likely to resort to bullying, physical violence and self-destructive behavior, and also perform better academically. In honor of Jesse, and the 25 other beautiful children and talented educators lost at Sandy Hook, this bill provides teachers skills and support to help all students grow into strong and healthy members of society. Qualities of courage and resilience shown by Jesse and other Sandy Hook heroes will help inspire lesson plans for emotional intelligence and personal strength,” said Senator Blumenthal. "We all have to take responsibility for the education and wellbeing of our children. The Jesse Lewis Empowering Educators Act introduces a powerful initiative that will benefit our children physically, mentally and emotionally as well as the future of our country,” said Scarlett Lewis. Since her son's death, Scarlett Lewis has founded the Jesse Lewis Choose Love Foundation, and has become one of the nation's leading advocates for social and emotional learning.
04.13.2015	Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today in response to the U.S. Treasury Department reporting that China’s currency is still ‘significantly undervalued’: “This report proves why Congress cannot give President Obama Fast Track Authority and why we need to seriously reevaluate the Trans-Pacific Partnership," said Congressman Ryan. "China’s continued currency manipulation is costing American jobs. Our country has the most innovative and productive workers in the world, but we need a level playing field if we want to remain competitive. It is time for the Obama Administration to hold China accountable for their illegal actions, instead of passing a broad trade agreement that will only escalate these unfair trade practices.” Full Report can be found here.
04.01.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today voted in support of H.R 2, the Bipartisan Permanent SGR Fix & CHIP Reauthorization Package, which finally will replace the broken Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula, the so-called “doc fix,” a decade long problem. This bill also provides a two year extension of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), a program that will ensure that millions of children will have access to health care when they need it. “I am proud to support this legislation that will provide our doctors with just compensation for their services, and also provide health insurance to children,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “This legislation will improve the quality of care for our seniors and make sure that our children have the access to the health care they deserve. I am also pleased that funding for Community Health Centers (CHC’s) has been included in this bill.While we needed to extend these important programs, I am concerned that a pay-for was not agreed upon and this deal will increase our national deficit. Further I am deeply disappointed that Republicans forced anti-abortion funding language into this legislation." This legislation, supported by a large and diverse group of organizations around the country, will transition Medicare away from a volume-based system toward one that rewards value, ensures the accuracy of payments, and improves the quality of care. The annual uncertainty for seniors and their doctors undermined Medicare and created a lack of confidence. The package also includes key victories for low-income seniors, children and families. This bill puts those problems behind us. Other provisions in the bill provide additional funding for an initiative that helps low-income seniors pay their Part B premiums, and the bill extends funding for the National Health Service Corps and Teaching Health Centers for two more years, providing $620 million for the National Health Service Corps and $120 million for Teaching Health Centers.
04.01.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement after voting against FY2016 Republican Budget: This budget will not help grow our economy, provide high wage jobs for hard working Americans or, ultimately, balance the budget. This budget makes America less competitive, pushes more burdens on to working families and continues to feed the fires of inequality in our society. With all the challenges our families face today, the Republican budget lacks any vision for how to give them opportunity to pull themselves up the economic ladder. It is no surprise that this legislation passed without any Democratic support. Like proposals we’ve seen before, it favors the wealthy and most powerful in our country, once again cutting tax rates for millionaires – providing an average tax cut of $200,000, while increasing taxes on hardworking families by $2,000 per year. Further, this budget reduces financial aid for 260,000 Ohio students, eliminates health care coverage for 234,000 Ohioans, and ends Medicare as we know it – replacing it with a voucher program. This budget shows just how out of touch Congressional Republicans are with what American families really need in their daily lives. The American people deserve a budget that invests in our country and has the foresight to plan for the future. At the end of the day we all want a balanced budget that ultimately helps the American people, but instead we were presented with a partisan budget that makes draconian cuts to many necessary domestic programs.
04.01.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today joined Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) in reintroducing the Paycheck Fairness Act, legislation which would help close the wage gap between women and men working the same jobs. On average, a woman makes just 78 cents for every dollar made by a man. “The United States wage gap has not narrowed at all over the last 25 years. Right now women make 77 cents on every dollar earned by men for equivalent jobs. If we are going to make the American Dream a reality for all Americans, then we need to ensure that women are paid an equal wage for equal work,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Just this week, it was reported that male nurses earn $5100 more a year than females in similar positions. This is inexcusable and we can and must do better.” The Paycheck Fairness Act builds upon the landmark Equal Pay Act signed into law by President Kennedy in 1963. It closes loopholes that have kept the Equal Pay Act from achieving its goal of equal pay by requiring employers to show that pay disparities are truly related to job performance, not gender. It also prohibits employer retaliation for sharing salary information with coworkers. Under current law employers can sue and punish employees for sharing such information. In addition, it strengthens remedies for pay discrimination by increasing compensation women can pursue, allowing them to seek both back pay and punitive damages for pay discrimination. On January 29, 2009, President Obama’s signed his first bill since becoming President, the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, which overturned the 180-day statute of limitations for women to contest pay discrimination. The Paycheck Fairness Act would close the loopholes that allow pay discrimination to continue in the first place and, with Ledbetter, provide employees the rights they need to challenge and eliminate pay discrimination in the workplace.
04.01.2015	Akron, Ohio – Today, in recognition of the five-year anniversary of the Affordable Care Act, Congressman Tim Ryan announced that 16,793 people in the Akron area and 13,673 people in the Youngstown area have signed up for health care coverage on the Health Insurance Marketplace. Nationwide, more than 16.4 million people have gained coverage since the ACA passed. This is the largest reduction in the uninsured in four decades. “On the fifth anniversary of this landmark law, I am happy to report that the Affordable Care Act is working for our community. The 16,000 in Akron and 13,000 in Youngstown who have signed up for coverage are proof of the positive impact this law is having for hardworking Americans, all while helping to reduce health care inflation to its lowest level in over five decades,” said Congressman Ryan. “We can clearly see that because of the Affordable Care Act our family, friends and neighbors are finally able to afford and receive coverage, many for the first time in their lives. Those with pre-existing conditions cannot be denied coverage, young people can stay on the parents plans until they turn 26, and women no longer have to worry about getting charged more because of their gender. I am proud to have voted in support of this law five years ago and I am proud of the good it has done for so many here in Ohio and across the nation. I am not saying this law is perfect, and I stand ready to make adjustments as they are needed – but it is quite clear we are much closer to making access to affordable health care a right for all Americans.” “These historic enrollment numbers show that the American people know the ACA is working for them,” said US Dept. of Health and Human Services Region 5 Director Kathleen Falk. “Thanks to the ACA, people can no longer be denied health insurance because of a preexisting condition, healthcare spending is increasing at the lowest rate in 50 years, and people no longer need to worry about being one illness away from bankruptcy.” As a result of the ACA, the 5 million Ohioans with a pre-existing health condition can no longer be denied health care coverage. Millions of Americans, and almost 3 million Ohioans, who already had insurance have seen their coverage improve because they now have access to preventive services like vaccines, cancer screenings, and yearly wellness visits at no out-of-pocket cost. And since the ACA allows young adults to stay on their parents’ plan until they turn 26, 97,000 young adults in Ohio gained coverage. Nationwide, nearly 11.7 million consumers selected a plan or were automatically enrolled in Marketplace coverage. These enrollments contributed to the 7.1 percent drop in the uninsured rate since the ACA was passed. In Ohio, 234,341 consumers selected plans or were automatically re-enrolled in quality, affordable health insurance coverage through the Health Insurance Marketplace as of February 22, according to HHS. Additionally, eight out of ten Ohioans could select a Marketplace plan for $100 or less per month, and a vast majority of enrollees received an average tax credit of $244.
03.20.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan today voted against S.J. Res. 8, a resolution that makes it tougher for American workers to join unions and participate in union elections. “I am deeply disappointed that Congressional Republicans voted today to strip the rights of working Americans,” said Congressman Ryan. “The continued erosion of union rights in this country is weakening working conditions, middle class wages and the American economy. If workers ask for an election, they should not have to face delay, interference or retaliation – And I will stand with my union brothers and sisters to defend their right to organize. Their voices must be heard.” This resolution overturns a rule adopted by the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) in December regarding “representation case procedures,” which attempts to modernize the Board's election procedures and reduce unnecessary litigation and delay in the election process. The rule allows for electronic filing and transmission of documents, reduces delays caused by frivolous litigation, unifies procedures across the country, requires additional contact information be included in voter lists, and consolidates appeals to the Board into a single process. The rule is aimed at making the election process run more smoothly and predictably, to the benefit of employers, workers and unions. The rule responds to concerns that current procedures are so inefficient that they deny workers a meaningful opportunity to organize. In particular, employers can use a number of tactics such as filing multiple appeals to delay votes and as a result, the average time before workers can vote has now stretched to over 6 months. This resolution would prevent the NLRB from acting as a fully functioning board and continue denying workers a vote for representation. Wronged workers would have nowhere to turn for the enforcement of their rights under the law – and that is exactly its intent.
03.20.2015	Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today in response to the passage of the Fiscal Year 2016 Republican Budget out of the Budget Committee: I am not surprised that it took over 24 hours of backroom deals and arm twisting to finally pass this extremist right-wing budget that was even too draconian for conservative members of the Republican Party. The circus that the Budget Committee process turned into proves that this Republican Budget is wrong for the American people and will move the country in the wrong direction. This resolution shows just how out of touch Congressional Republicans are with what hardworking Americans need in their daily lives. Republicans go out of their way with this proposal to pass the burden on vulnerable Americans – making it harder to buy a home, afford college tuition or comfortably retire. The last government shutdown cost the American people $24 billion, and unfortunately this budget will bring us down the same road if they do not come to their senses and create a commonsense plan to lead our nation forward, instead of continuing to play these dangerous partisan games.
03.20.2015	WASHINGTON—Representatives Tim Ryan (OH-13) and Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) spoke at a joint press conference this morning (audio), along with other Members of Congress, to contest trade data being used by U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) Michael Froman to advocate for major trade agreements like the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). The group sent a corresponding joint letter to Froman. “I am dismayed that a Democratic Administration would mislead our Caucus to believe that we have a trade surplus with our Free Trade Agreement Partners. The data that was presented to us yesterday was distorted. There is a clear track-record of these trade agreements gutting the American workforce and industry, and all we ask for is accurate information during the ongoing debate,” said Congressman Ryan. “Ambassador Froman needs to check his math on America’s trade agreements,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Even with numbers padded heavily with re-exports, our trade imbalances have ballooned with every new trade deal, especially in automotive manufacturing. Those imbalances mean real jobs lost and wages cut for America’s working families. This is not the first time a bad trade deal has been sold to Congress and the American people on a failed promise of increased exports and jobs, but it needs to be the last.” Ambassador Froman has told Members of Congress that the U.S. has a trade surplus with its free trade agreement partners, which is in direct contradiction with U.S. International Trade Commission data showing the U.S. has a large goods trade deficit with its free trade agreement partners. Representatives Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Dan Lipinski (D-IL) and Debbie Dingell (D-MI) also spoke at the event. Trade facts for U.S. and Ohio: The U.S. has a cumulative trade deficit of $9.5 trillion since 1976, equivalent to 47,500,000 jobs lost in the U.S. The U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement has led to an estimated 84 percent increase in the U.S. trade deficit with Korea, equivalent to $12.7 billion and nearly 85,000 jobs lost since its ratification just three years ago. In that time Korea has imported approximately 20,000 U.S. passenger vehicles while they have exported more than 460,000, 20 times more than the U.S. is shipping to Korea. In the two decades from 1994 to 2014 Ohio had a net loss of 323,308 manufacturing jobs, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. At the start of that period, manufacturing jobs accounted for 23.4 percent of all private sector jobs. By 2014 that number had fallen to 14.9 percent. During the same period, 139,321 workers have been certified as having lost their job due to imports or off-shoring under the Trade Adjustment Assistance program, a notoriously difficult program to qualify for. According to a 2011 report from the Economic Policy Institute, 34,900 jobs in Ohio and more than 680,000 in the U.S. have been lost or displaced as a result of the rising trade deficit with with Mexico under NAFTA. A year later the Economic Policy Institute reported that 91,800 jobs in Ohio and more than 2.7 million in the U.S. have been lost or displaced due to our rising trade debt with China.
03.20.2015	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Tim Ryan (OH-D) Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (PA-R) introduced H.R. 1465, the Medical Evaluation Parity for Service Members (MEPS) Act. The bill, which has strong bipartisan support and the support of a large number of military and mental health advocacy groups, will help the military identify behavioral health issues and improve suicide prevention by instituting a mental health assessment for all incoming military recruits. “It is heartbreaking to see the staggering number of veterans who are suffering from PTSD and TBI in our country,” said Congressman Ryan. “Our military makes sure every serviceman and woman is physically fit for duty, and this legislation will ensure that they are also mentally fit. It will also give us a better baseline to measure any potential mental harm they may have incurred during their duty. These men and women put their lives on the line every day in the service of our nation, it is our duty to do everything in our power to guarantee they return home safely, both physically and mentally.” “According to the Department of Veterans Affairs, 22 of our military veterans commit suicide every day — one every 65 minutes, to be precise,” said Congressman Thompson. “The Medical Evaluation Parity for Service Members Act will ensure that service members are mentally fit to serve our nation by establishing a mental health assessment at the time recruits are first joining the military. These brave men and women deserve our complete support and we must do everything that we can to ensure they receive necessary treatment during their service and transition back into civilian life.” “The American Psychological Association has a long-standing commitment to promoting health and well-being among military personnel, veterans, and their families. We support the Medical Evaluation Parity for Servicemembers Act and applaud the efforts of Rep. Thompson and Rep. Ryan to strengthen DoD’s prevention, assessment, and treatment capacities for those wishing to serve our nation, those who are currently serving, and those who have served,” said Heather O’Beirne Kelly, PhD, American Psychological Association Lead for Military and Veterans’ Policy. This bipartisan, bicameral MEPS Act will institute a preliminary mental health assessment at the time recruits are first joining the military. An Army study confirmed the need to address mental health issues in a timely manner, finding that “nearly one in five Army soldiers enter the service with a psychiatric disorder, and nearly half of all soldiers who tried suicide first attempted it before enlisting.” Additionally, the Journal of the American Medical Association found that a large percentage of suicides in the military were individuals who had never been deployed in a combat role. The MEPS Act brings mental health to parity with physical health and will ensure that our incoming troops are both physically and mentally fit to serve. The MEPS Act has a Senate companion bill, introduced by Senators Rob Portman (R-OH) and Martin Heinrich (D-NM). Support for the Medical Evaluation Parity for Service Members (MEPS) Act: Veterans of Foreign Wars, Military Officers’ Association of America, Reserve Officers’ Association, National Military Family Association, Association of the U.S. Navy, the National Guard Association of the United States, the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States, the American Psychological Association, and the American Association of Marriage and Family Therapy.
03.18.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan's statement in response to today’s speech by President Obama in Cleveland, Ohio and his amendment to the FY 2016 House Republican Budget to provide $3.2 billion to establish a Scale-Up Manufacturing Initiative and expand the National Network of Manufacturing Institutes. “Manufacturing is the backbone of the American economy. I applaud President Obama for announcing nearly $500 million in public-private investments to strengthen American manufacturing and for his continued support for building manufacturing innovation institutes across the nation. This initiative follows the success of Youngstown’s AmericaMakes, which was the first pilot institute that laid the groundwork for this program. “President Obama came to Cleveland today for this announcement because he knows our State leads the nation in manufacturing, with Ohio adding 70,000 new manufacturing jobs in the last five years and an economic output of $100 billion last year alone. I support the President’s vision and tonight I am offering an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2016 House Republican Budget to provide $3.2 billion to establish a Scale-Up Manufacturing Initiative and expand the National Network of Manufacturing Institutes. This amendment will ensure that we will remain on the cutting edge of technology and that we will continue to build a better and brighter future right here in Ohio and across this great nation.”
03.18.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today in response to the Republican budget: The Republican budget unveiled today is yet another example of just how out of touch the conservative-wing of Congress has become with the challenges faced by everyday Americans. This budget will make it harder to buy a home, harder to send your kid to college, and harder for our seniors to afford their prescription drugs and medical bills. The Congressional Republicans callously continue to put the squeeze on hardworking families with this proposal, in order to give more tax breaks to the ultra-wealthy and special interest groups. Furthermore, this budget will repeal the Affordable Care Act, a law that has enabled 16.4 million Americans to have health insurance and decreased our nation’s uninsured rate by 35%, the largest drop since the creation of Medicare and Medicaid. It is simply heartless for Republicans to rip the security that health care provides for many American families around the country. This is the same type of budget that shut the government down in 2013 and cost the American people $24 billion. Congressional Republicans should not make that mistake again. They should give up on this extreme, partisan plan, set aside their rhetoric, and work with Democrats to pass a bipartisan budget that can create the framework we need to lead our nation forward.
03.18.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Pat Tiberi (R-OH) today introduced the bipartisan Expansion of Nutrition’s Role in Curricula and Healthcare (ENRICH) Act of 2015, which establishes a $15 million grant program for U.S. Medical Schools and Osteopathic Colleges to create an integrated nutrition and physical activity curriculum program. Currently there is no mandatory requirement for US Medical Schools or Osteopathic Colleges to include nutrition and physical activity in their curriculum. “An understanding of proper diet and exercise is central throughout all of our lives and is critical for future physicians to learn during any medical education – and this legislation is a step toward ensuring each and every medical professional has the expertise necessary to provide the best care possible,” said Congressman Ryan. “With US healthcare expenditures continuing to rise to unprecedented levels, we must do everything in our power to improve preventative health in our nation. We need to raise awareness and reduce our risk of chronic diseases like heart disease, cancer, stroke and diabetes that are plaguing our nation and are directly connected with diet and lifestyle choices." This three-year grant program will allow U.S. Medical Schools and Osteopathic Colleges to establish or expand nutrition and physical activity curriculum in order to highlight the role that nutrition, diet and exercise play in prevention and management of obesity and cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and cancer. Healthcare spending in the United States continues to rise around the nation. Seven out of ten deaths in the United States are now caused by preventable chronic diseases such as heart disease, stroke, and type 2 diabetes where lifestyle factors such as diet and exercise are key factors. Expenditures in the United States on healthcare surpassed $2.3 trillion in 2008, with costs from chronic disease treatment accounting for over 75 percent of national health costs. Raising awareness and increasing nutrition education can help improve many American’s diets and help reduce the risks of these chronic diseases.
03.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan today urged President Barack Obama to focus on passing a multi-year highway bill before pushing his trade agenda. Joining Congressman Ryan on the letter were Congressman Peter DeFazio (OR-4), ranking member on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee; Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), ranking member of the Labor, Health, Human Services, and Education Appropriations Subcommittee; and Congresswoman Louise Slaughter (NY-25), ranking member of the House Committee on Rules.“There are 70,000 bridges in the United States that are considered to be structurally deficient,” said Congressman Ryan. “This is an opportunity to put hundreds of thousands of Americans back to work to improve our country’s infrastructure. There is no doubt it will cost more if we wait. This should be President Obama’s priority—and needs to be completed instead of a controversial and damaging trade agreement.” The letter follows: March 11, 2015 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20502 Dear President Obama: We believe it is imperative for you to focus your efforts on passing a long overdue surface transportation bill before turning your attention to a controversial trade agenda that divides Congress. America requires a robust transportation infrastructure to compete in the global economy. Around the country our crumbling roads, bridges, railroads and sewer systems urgently need improvements and repairs. India and China spend seven to nine percent of their GDP on infrastructure. We spend approximately two percent. If we want to remain the world’s leader in innovation, we need a safe and efficient surface transportation network in the United States. As you said in your State of the Union address, “Twenty-first century businesses need twenty-first century infrastructure - modern ports, and stronger bridges, faster trains and the fastest Internet…Let’s pass a bipartisan infrastructure plan that could create more than 30 times as many jobs per year, and make this country stronger for decades to come.” We agree, Mr. President. You are in a unique position to move transportation legislation forward and give this country’s infrastructure the investment it needs to safely transport people and goods. A long-term, fully funded transportation bill is a priority of both the Chamber of Commerce and several labor unions. We believe you need to capitalize on the support of both sides and announce that you will not pursue TPP until you have a multi-year surface transportation bill on your desk. After the potential passage and signing of any trade legislation, we believe the White House loses leverage to get a highway bill finished. We are pleased that your budget includes a request and funding outline for a six-year transportation reauthorization proposal. The $478 billion is the step in the right direction, and now your leadership is needed to promote this legislation and bring the full force of the White House behind it. Thank you in advance for the time and attention you will give this matter. Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact our offices. Sincerely, _____________________ _____________________ Tim Ryan Peter DeFazio Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________ _____________________ Rosa DeLauro Louise Slaughter Member of Congress Member of Congress
03.16.2015	WASHINGTON—U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in opposition to an open letter signed by Senate Republicans to the leaders of Iran: “The Republican Senators who organized and signed this letter have undermined the security and stability of our nation in their reckless attempt to weaken President Obama personally. In reality, however, they have undermined not one administration, but the Office of the President itself and with it, our nation as a whole. That is something that every American, regardless of how they feel about the ongoing negotiations with Iran, should staunchly oppose. "This President was duly elected and has been given this authority by the American people. Twice. For Republicans to turn this into another crass and politicized "we hate the President battle" just continues to prove that they are unable to maturely govern a nation as great and powerful as ours. "Our Constitution grants every President, and he or she alone, the power to negotiate with foreign countries. The branches of our government were designed this way by our founders to prevent exactly what the authors of this letter have publicly stated is their goal: to sabotage delicate negotiations upon which peace depends. “If these Republican Senators disagree with the ongoing talks between the U.S. and Iran, they are free to pass a law overturning the final deal, which the President can veto. What Congress must not do—and indeed must never do--is attempt to speak to foreign nations in place of the President. We should instead afford President Obama the opportunity to complete these delicate, multilateral talks. Our nation’s power and security depend on it."
03.16.2015	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement today regarding oral arguments for the King v. Burwell Supreme Court hearing: "The intent of the Affordable Care Act is clear that tax credits under the law should be available to every American, regardless of what state they call home. This law is working in Ohio, with the vast majority of Ohioans enrolled in the Marketplace receiving an average tax credit of $247 per month. "This Supreme Court case is just another partisan attempt to tear down a law that is helping millions in Ohio and across the United States. If the right-winged plaintiffs win this case, we would see 8.2 million new uninsured Americans and a tax increase of $28.8 billion in 2016 and $340 billion over the next 10 years. At this point I am baffled at the lengths the Republican Party is willing to go to see this law dismantled and I find it ironic that they are actively trying to make healthcare more expensive for their constituents."
03.03.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today in response to his vote in favor of a six month extension of Department of Homeland Security funding: “While this comes far too late, I am pleased that Speaker Boehner has reached across the aisle to pass a clean extension of the Homeland Security funding bill. My Republican colleagues have proven their inability to lead, with 167 of them refusing to support funding for our nation’s security. When the American people wonder why Congress does not work, they need to look no further than this debate. "I am pleased that this legislation will continue to fund the Department of Homeland Security. Our country is safer when our Border Patrol agents, TSA aviation security screeners and counterterrorism officials are given the funding and respect they deserve. One would have thought that funding our security would have been an obvious priority, yet an extreme group of Congressional Republicans held our nation hostage and played a dangerous political game. They are weakening us as a nation and putting us at risk. We cannot allow them to continue to continue to take our us down this path.”
03.03.2015	Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement tonight in response to the funding of the Department of Homeland Security: "I voted tonight in favor of the seven-day funding of the Department of Homeland Security with the hope that we will fully fund the Department next week. Given the increased hostility around the world and the threats made against our country, it is incomprehensible that an extreme group of Congressional Republicans think it’s appropriate to play politics with our homeland security. "Just when I think they have reached the very height of extremism, they take us one further by threatening the safety of each and every American. They prevent us from passing a transportation bill that would create jobs in every state, block efforts to improve access to health care, and fail to adequately fund military benefits. This group of narrow minded legislators are weakening our country and putting us at risk. It is imperative that we no longer allow them to create a crisis to gain cheap political points."
03.02.2015	Akron, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan is announcing today a $204,750 federal grant for the East Akron Neighborhood Development Corporation to support local NeighborWorks organization efforts to revitalize and sustain their communities, promote and preserve affordable housing for the residents of their service areas, and create and sustain jobs through local NeighborWorks-supported projects and activities in Ohio. “These funds will make a lasting impact on the lives of those in our community who need it the most,” said Congressman Ryan. “This grant will enable East Akron Neighborhood Development Corporation to continue to create jobs, provide housing opportunities and strengthen our neighborhoods – I applaud them for the work they have done over the past 30 years and the work they will continue to do in the years to come.” NeighborWorks America is a public nonprofit organization, established by Congress in 1978 as the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (through Public Law 95-557). It supports and builds the capacity of over 245 local and regional nonprofit partner NeighborWorks organizations, comprised of local, private-sector business leaders, local government representatives, and community residents. For over 35 years, NeighborWorks America has supported local, community based solutions to development and affordable housing issues in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico; in America’s urban, suburban and rural communities. Local NeighborWorks organizations receive financial and grant support, training, technical assistance, technology tools and other services from NeighborWorks® America. In FY 2014, NeighborWorks and the NeighborWorks network assisted over 323,000 families in total, including: 21,000 homeowners created 9,600 quality, affordable rental homes developed 16,600 affordable homes preserved 58,600 homes repaired 118,200 quality, affordable rental homes owned and/or managed 108,500 families and individuals counseled on financial capacity, pre-purchase, post-purchase, or foreclosure issues, and 20,100 training certificates issued
03.02.2015	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan is announcing today a $144,000 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services grant to Compass Family & Community Services of Youngstown for the Daybreak Youth Crisis Shelter. The Daybreak Shelter is a community-based, ten-bed shelter providing a comprehensive safe haven as well as crisis counseling services to runaway, “throwaway” or otherwise homeless youth from ages 11 to 18. Since 1976 thousands of runaway and homeless youth have found a temporary refuge at Daybreak. It is the only program in Mahoning, Trumbull and Columbiana counties that can provide shelter for unaccompanied youth who are below age 18. Daybreak is the only agency that serves homeless youth, enabling them to avoid placement in child welfare custody.“I am happy to support the work of Compass Family and Community Services and congratulate them on receiving this Health and Human Services grant,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. "They provide much-needed services to their clients and the federal financial support is crucial in addressing many of the problems faced in our communities."“Without this funding, the community would not have services for youth who are homeless or unable to safely remain in their homes for many reasons,” said Joe Caruso, Executive Director of Compass Family & Community Services. “Daybreak provides safe, comfortable, effective services for this most vulnerable population.” Compass Family & Community Services has programs that care for people from infancy through their senior years in Mahoning, Trumbull, Columbiana and Jefferson counties. The COMPASS Family of Programs include Sojourner House Domestic Violence Shelter, The Doris Burdman Home, Riverbend Treatment, Daybreak Youth Crisis Shelter, The Rape Crisis and Counseling Center, The Center for Workforce Development, Financial Stability as well as Mental Health Outpatient and Drug and/or Alcohol Addiction services, including prevention, intervention, counseling and treatment.
02.26.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement after the FCC Commissioners voted 3-2 to approve Chairman Wheeler’s proposal on Net Neutrality: President Theodore Roosevelt said, “Above all else, we must strive to keep the highways of commerce open to all on equal terms,” when talking about the regulation of the railroad industry. Today our highway of commerce is the internet, and President Roosevelt’s belief still rings true – we must have an internet that is open to all on equal terms. I commend the FCC for voting today to implement and enforce Net Neutrality protections. More than 4 million Americans weighed in on the debate and voiced their support for Net Neutrality. Reclassifying the internet as a utility will help low-income communities gain equal access to broadband services. This decision allows the creation of clear rules and regulations to ban paid prioritization of content and services across all internet platforms – including mobile broadband, which makes up 63% of all usage. The internet is an indispensable part of American lives and it should be classified in a way that reflects the world we live in today. Recently I joined several of my colleagues in urging Chairman Wheeler and the FCC to support reclassification and I applaud their actions. This move encourages competition and incentivizes the much needed investment into broadband to bring our nation into the 21st century. Congress trusted the FCC to improve and update laws and regulations to keep pace with the speed of progress in the tech industry – and I believe this is the move we need to remain a world leader in technology and innovation.
02.23.2015	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today on the Obama Administration’s proposal to increase retirement security by requiring financial advisers offering employer-sponsored benefit plans to abide by a “fiduciary” standard – protecting clients from back-door payments and hidden fees: “More than 75 million American families are saving for retirement, with many entrusting financial advisors with their investments. We expect that our financial advisors are acting in our best interest and ensuring our future is secure, yet every year, Americans lose $17 billion due to financial advisors who place their own interest above those of their clients. Financial advisors are able to accept backdoor payments from Wall Street and impose hidden fees that together can result in the loss of more than a quarter of retirement savings. “These backdoor deals and hidden fees must end and I applaud the White House for cracking down on practices that are hurting our country’s retirees. After a lifetime of scraping and saving, Americans deserve to have a secure and dignified retirement – and this move will help ensure that working families can have the retirement they worked so hard to earn.”
02.18.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Congressman Mike Turner (R-OH) introduced legislation that would extend the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) for the Delphi Salaried Retirees. With the expiration of the HCTC on January 1, 2014, tens of thousands of families across the country have struggled to pay their health bills. The legislation would restore the HCTC for five years and provide these retirees with the certainty and stability they need. “The Health Care Tax Credit will give relief to thousands of Delphi salaried retirees and dislocated and retired United Steelworkers (USW) who have had their pensions and healthcare significantly reduced through no fault of their own,” said Rep. Ryan. "It is critical that we pass this legislation and ensure that they receive the affordable coverage they deserve, we cannot leave these hardworking Americans behind.” “More than five years ago, 20,000 Delphi Salaried Retirees unjustly lost up to seventy percent of their pensions during the GM bankruptcy,” said Rep. Turner. "For the last year, these retirees have been forced to use up to fifty percent of their remaining pensions to pay for their health care. This legislation would provide much-needed relief for thousands of families who have already lost so much.” In November of 2014, Reps. Ryan and Turner sent a bipartisan letter to House leadership reaffirming their strong support for the passage of an extension of the HCTC as part of a year-end tax extenders bill before the 113th Congress adjourned for the year. In March of 2014, Reps. Ryan and Turner led a delegation of 28 Members and Senators from across the country urging both House and Senate leadership to enact for the extension of the HCTC. In July 2013, Reps. Ryan and Turner introduced legislation that would have provided the Delphi Salaried Retirees and other eligible individuals the choice of continuing within the HCTC program past the program’s termination date, or upon leaving the program.
02.18.2015	Washington, DC – Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) today reintroduced the bipartisan Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), which provides for a robust response to the twin epidemics of opioid and heroin addiction that includes prevention, law enforcement strategies and the expansion of evidence-based treatment. CARA is the first piece of legislation introduced as part of Congressman Sensenbrenner’s over-criminalization package. “As Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus, I understand the damage substance abuse inflicts upon the nation. In my state of Ohio, fatal drug overdoses have been the leading cause of accidental death since 2007. Heroin and opiate addiction is destroying lives, disrupting families and destabilizing communities – it is imperative that we begin to stem this tide. The provisions in this legislation are proven to work and I call on Congress to act now and pass this important legislation,” said Congressman Ryan. “Too many Americans are falling into the addiction trap. It must be addressed effectively and expeditiously. With this legislation, we have an opportunity to build on proven methods that enable law enforcement to respond to this epidemic and support long-term recovery,” said Congressman Sensenbrenner. Original Cosponsors: Tim Ryan (D-Ohio); Tom Marino (R-Pa.); Bobby Scott (D-Va.); David Joyce (R-Ohio); Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.); Steve Chabot (R-Ohio) Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) introduced companion legislation in the Senate. The legislation is supported by more than 90 organizations, including the National District Attorneys Association, the National Association of State Alcohol and Drug Abuse Directors (NASADAD), Faces and Voices of Recovery, the National Council for Behavioral Health, and the Major County Sheriffs’ Association, among others.
02.18.2015	Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement following the announcement of a broad trade case against China at the World Trade Organization, challenging China’s provision of illegal export subsidies to a broad range of industries: “I applaud this move to end certain illegal Chinese trade practices that are harming competitiveness and costing jobs in the United States. As Chairman of the Congressional Manufacturing Caucus, I know that American manufacturing thrives when competing on a level playing field -- and this is the type of strong message our nation must send to China so that we may begin to create a fair and balanced trade system. Further, this challenge protects our businesses and ensures that hardworking Americans will be able to find and keep good paying jobs here at home. “Moving forward, I call on Congress to act swiftly and pass the bipartisan Currency Reform and Fair Trade Act and I call on President Obama to include strong and enforceable currency obligations in any future trade agreements. Research shows that currency manipulation has cost our nation as many as 5 million jobs in the last decade and it is time that we finally put an end to this attack on American workers.”
02.18.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) today was joined by Congressman Dave Loebsack (IA-02), Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53), Congressman Matt Cartwright (PA-17), and Congressman John Yarmuth (KY-3) in introducing the Academic, Social and Emotional Learning (SEL) Act. This legislation supports teacher training in SEL to help young people better handle societal issues thus boosting their academic potential. Students receiving an education that includes SEL programs do better on tests, show greater social behaviors, and less emotional stress. Furthermore, students are far less likely to engage in problem behavior like alcohol and drug use, violence, truancy, and bullying. “I have seen firsthand what teaching social and emotional learning can do for students and their classrooms in Ohio and across the nation,” said Rep. Tim Ryan. “These programs are scientifically proven to help students increase skills in problem-solving, conflict resolution, responsible decision-making and relationship building – these are the skills that will build the foundation for students to better perform academically and throughout their lives. Now is the time to promote programs that create a safer and more secure school culture in America.” “If there's one thing that unites Republicans and Democrats, it’s the belief that America is about both mind and heart--that our great national commitment to citizenship and character are as important as our commitment to competition and growth,” said Tim Shriver, Board Chair of the Collaborative for Academic, Social and Emotional Learning (CASEL). “For too long, schools have been told to separate the head from the heart--to separate the social and emotional development of children from their cognitive learning. We know that's the wrong way to teach and the wrong way to learn. This bill will help our schools get it right by using the best evidence based programs to optimize our children's chances of learning how to be as smart and as good as they can be." “Decades of research show that well-implemented social and emotional learning (SEL) programming improves students’ behavior and academic performance,” said Roger Weissberg, Board Vice-Chair of CASEL. “Recent national polls indicate that educators and parents believe that SEL should be an educational priority. It is critical to provide quality professional development for administrators and teachers so they provide the most beneficial programming for students.” A landmark meta-analysis of 213 SEL programs with a combined sample of more than 270,000 students clearly established the effectiveness of SEL programs across a number of areas critical to the success of students. Students scored 11 percentile points higher on standardized achievement tests, a significant improvement relative to peers not receiving SEL programming. The Academic, Social and Emotional Learning Act builds on this report and a large body of research proving that social and emotional programming has a positive impact on student learning. According to the Center for Disease Control (CDC), students who feel more connected to school are more likely to have positive health and education outcomes and that a close relationship between the emotional welfare and health of the student can create a safer and more secure environment for learning. The CDC recommends that schools “provide students with the academic, emotional, and social skills necessary to be actively engaged in school.” This legislation defines social and emotional learning (SEL) and amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) to allow funding for teacher and principal training and professional development to be used for SEL programming.
02.18.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) joined Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), Congressman Tim Murphy (R-PA) and Congressman Mo Brooks (R-AL) today in introducing legislation to hold currency manipulators accountable. The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act takes aim at currency manipulators by enabling the Department of Commerce to impose countervailing duties to offset the impact of currency manipulation on a U.S. industry. The legislation is identical to the House bill that passed with overwhelming bipartisan support in 2010. Similar legislation is being introduced today by a bipartisan group of Senators. The Peterson Institute estimates that interventions in currency markets by foreign governments have cost U.S. workers as many as five million jobs over the last decade by making it more difficult for U.S. exporters to compete in other countries and by subsidizing their exports. The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act alone is not by itself enough to end the practice of currency manipulation. Over 150 House Members and 60 Senators sent letters to the Obama administration in 2013 urging the inclusion of strong and enforceable currency obligations in the Trans-Pacific Partnership in order to deter our trading partners from manipulating their currency in the first place. A fact sheet on the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act is here. “Currency manipulation and other trade subsidies are costing America jobs and it is time to hold countries accountable for their illegal actions,” said Rep. Tim Ryan. “We have the most innovative and productive workers in the world, but we need a level playing field if we want to remain competitive. This legislation is an important step we must take to ensure American manufacturing can thrive. This bill sends a strong message to foreign governments who manipulate their currencies at the expense of the American worker and when passed it will help create jobs here at home.” “Few actions by foreign governments do more to disrupt free and fair trade and to harm U.S. job growth than currency manipulation,” Rep. Sander Levin said. “Currency manipulation has had a major impact on millions of American middle class jobs. We are sending an unequivocal message today that action is needed to rein in this abuse.” “When it comes to international trade, America is a welcoming nation but we’re not a welcome mat,” said Rep. Tim Murphy. “There must be consequences when foreign governments seek to illegally control currency markets in order to prop up their exporters while American factories close and American workers lose their jobs.” “America’s dependence on foreign suppliers is a growing problem that hurts our nation’s defense industrial base and threatens our security independence,” said Rep. Mo Brooks. “In a time of war, the United States cannot rely on foreign suppliers for either the critical raw materials or finished products needed for our national defense. We in Congress need to empower the American worker and the American economy by using the resources we have here at home. That’s why I am helping to lead a bipartisan effort, through the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act, to protect American manufacturers from damaging and unfair currency manipulation.”
02.18.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement after FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler’s Net Neutrality proposal: I commend Chairman Wheeler’s decision to implement and enforce open internet protections. More than 4 million Americans weighed into the debate and voiced their support for Net Neutrality. Reclassifying the internet service as a utility helps low-income communities gain equal access to broadband services. This proposal allows the creation of clear rules and regulations to ban paid prioritization of content and services across all internet platforms – including mobile broadband, which makes up 63% of all usage. The internet is an indispensable part of American lives and it should be classified in a way that reflects the world we live in today. Recently I joined several of my colleagues in urging Chairman Wheeler to support reclassification and I applaud his actions. This proposal encourages competition and incentivizes the much needed investment into broadband to bring our nation into the 21st century. Congress trusted the FCC to improve and update laws and regulations to keep pace with the speed of progress in the tech industry – and I believe this is the move we need to remain a world leader in technology and innovation. I call on the FCC Commissioners to act now and approve this proposal to ensure the internet continues to be free and open.
02.10.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) today was joined by Congressman Dave Loebsack (IA-02), Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53), Congressman Matt Cartwright (PA-17), and Congressman John Yarmuth (KY-3) in introducing the Academic, Social and Emotional Learning (SEL) Act. This legislation supports teacher training in SEL to help young people better handle societal issues thus boosting their academic potential. Students receiving an education that includes SEL programs do better on tests, show greater social behaviors, and less emotional stress. Furthermore, students are far less likely to engage in problem behavior like alcohol and drug use, violence, truancy, and bullying. “I have seen firsthand what teaching social and emotional learning can do for students and their classrooms in Ohio and across the nation,” said Rep. Tim Ryan. “These programs are scientifically proven to help students increase skills in problem-solving, conflict resolution, responsible decision-making and relationship building – these are the skills that will build the foundation for students to better perform academically and throughout their lives. Now is the time to promote programs that create a safer and more secure school culture in America.” “If there's one thing that unites Republicans and Democrats, it’s the belief that America is about both mind and heart--that our great national commitment to citizenship and character are as important as our commitment to competition and growth,” said Tim Shriver, Board Chair of the Collaborative for Academic, Social and Emotional Learning (CASEL). “For too long, schools have been told to separate the head from the heart--to separate the social and emotional development of children from their cognitive learning. We know that's the wrong way to teach and the wrong way to learn. This bill will help our schools get it right by using the best evidence based programs to optimize our children's chances of learning how to be as smart and as good as they can be." “Decades of research show that well-implemented social and emotional learning (SEL) programming improves students’ behavior and academic performance,” said Roger Weissberg, Board Vice-Chair of CASEL. “Recent national polls indicate that educators and parents believe that SEL should be an educational priority. It is critical to provide quality professional development for administrators and teachers so they provide the most beneficial programming for students.” A landmark meta-analysis of 213 SEL programs with a combined sample of more than 270,000 students clearly established the effectiveness of SEL programs across a number of areas critical to the success of students. Students scored 11 percentile points higher on standardized achievement tests, a significant improvement relative to peers not receiving SEL programming. The Academic, Social and Emotional Learning Act builds on this report and a large body of research proving that social and emotional programming has a positive impact on student learning. According to the Center for Disease Control (CDC), students who feel more connected to school are more likely to have positive health and education outcomes and that a close relationship between the emotional welfare and health of the student can create a safer and more secure environment for learning. The CDC recommends that schools “provide students with the academic, emotional, and social skills necessary to be actively engaged in school.” This legislation defines social and emotional learning (SEL) and amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) to allow funding for teacher and principal training and professional development to be used for SEL programming.
02.03.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan statement on President Obama’s 2016 Fiscal Year Budget’s inclusion of $9.4 million for the Youngstown Air Reserve Station (YARS) to upgrade their Indoor Firing Range: “I am pleased the President’s budget included this critical funding to ensure our Airmen here in Ohio have the equipment and facilities necessary to perform their duties and complete their missions,” said Congressman Ryan. “The men and women stationed at Youngstown Air Reserve Station work selflessly each and every day to keep our nation safe. As a member of the House Budget Committee, I will do everything in my power to ensure that this funding remains in the final bill as Congress debates the Fiscal Year 2016 Budget.”
02.03.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today in response to President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2016 Budget: I applaud President Obama for putting forward a common sense budget that will provide a clear path for our nation’s economic success. This budget will reverse harmful sequestration cuts and in turn make the critical investments into research, education and infrastructure that are needed to grow the middle class and accelerate the American economy. I am pleased to see $250 million allocated to protect the health and wellbeing of Ohioans by targeting harmful algal blooms in western Lake Erie and continuing to fund the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. This budget will make education more affordable by giving students the ability to go to community college for two years, keeping student loans manageable, expanding education tax benefits, and ensuring Pell Grants are tied to inflation. Further, President Obama had the foresight to make much needed investments in manufacturing by creating a national network of manufacturing institutes. It also provides funding and cuts red tape to bring our nation’s infrastructure into the 21st century by rebuilding our dilapidated roads, bridges and water systems – which will create good paying American jobs and increase safety. The President’s budget invests in an economy that rewards hard work, increases wages and allows everyone to share in the American Dream. As a member of the House Budget Committee I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass this budget and help move America forward.
01.29.2015	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement in support of the Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) Permitting Certainty and Transparency Act (HR 351) : “This bill codifies the policy change that the Department of Energy voluntarily made last year, to expedite the approval process of LNG export facilities that have favorably completed the required Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) reviews. I was proud to vote in favor of this important legislation. The longer we delay the approval of expanded exports, the more we risk losing our competitive and technological advantage over other natural gas-producing countries. “I want to thank Congressman Bill Johnson for his work in introducing and promoting this bill. The potential for the United States in selling LNG to foreign nations can have an enormous effect, not only on the economy of northeast Ohio, but all around the country. While I realize the concerns regarding the price of natural gas for American consumers, I am confident that increased production will maintain competitive prices for the American market. “Here in northeastern Ohio we have made great strides with both big and small manufacturers creating new jobs. Lower gas prices have helped fuel that resurgence. But we still have too many people without good paying jobs and expanding the export market for natural gas gives us the opportunity to provide more employment—an opportunity we need to take advantage of. It is estimated that for every $1 billion in exports, up to 5,000 new jobs would be created (Center for Liquefied Natural Gas, which cites the U.S. International Trade Administration).” Congressman Ryan was an original cosponsor of this legislation and is the founder and co-chairman of the Bipartisan Congressional LNG Export Working Group.
01.29.2015	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan announces $1,323,428 to Portage Private Industry Council, Inc. in Ravenna, Ohio. “I applaud and congratulate Portage Private Industry Council for securing these funds that will be instrumental for providing quality, affordable education to our children in Portage County. Head Start continues to give low-income children the necessary social services to ensure that our young people get the nutrition, wellness and educational resources they so deeply need. I am happy these funds are going to such a worthy cause.” This grant was provided through the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and fund the program through June of 2015.
01.21.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address: Tonight the American people heard President Obama’s vision to expand economic opportunity for all Americans and I applaud him for his leadership in advancing programs that prioritize the middle class. As our economy continues to rebound, President Obama’s emphasis on our country’s safety, education, infrastructure, and creating solid middle class jobs is necessary to continue this success and pave the way for future growth. While I was pleased the State of the Union included a blueprint to improve the lives of the hardworking men and women in America, I believe those Americans should also be represented in the ongoing conversations regarding the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) agreement and Fast Track Authority. We have seen too many times trade agreements passed with no proper debate or transparency and I cannot stand by and support a trade policy that moves jobs overseas and cripples American manufacturing. Many if the Presidents initiatives will put money back into the pockets of our friends and neighbors. The President said we need to begin looking at child care for working families in a new way—and I agree with him. Making quality child care affordable for middle and lower income families is the right thing to do, and it is also good for our economy. Whether free community college, tax breaks for middle income families, investments into additive manufacturing, building and repairing the country’s infrastructure, and investing in medical care, including new prosthetics for our veterans, we need to push these policies because they will relieve the heavy burdens and strains that come from today's downward economic pressures on wages. President Obama has laid out a plan that will help make buying a home easier by cutting mortgage insurance premium, and announced a program to improve the lives of working Americans with paid sick leave. He spoke about the need to end wage stagnation and raise the minimum wage. All these reforms will help families’ paychecks go farther. While I had hoped Congress would act to create federal programs to improve our country’s crumbling infrastructure, I support the President’s plan to promote private investments that will create quality jobs by improving our decaying and outdated roads, bridges, broadband services, and sewer systems. We all agree education is the key to our nation’s future and if we want America to stay competitive, it is crucial that we continue to have the most educated and skilled workforce. The President knows this and I applaud the President’s America’s College Promise proposal which will allow students to go to community college for free—giving millions of young people across our nation the chance to receive a quality and affordable education. I was happy to hear President Obama renew his commitment to American manufacturing by highlighting the Revitalize American Manufacturing and Innovation Act, which expands upon the success of Youngstown’s America Makes and develops a network of manufacturing hubs across the nation. I agree with President Obama that all citizens deserve an opportunity to succeed. We need to pass legislation that gives all Americans a fair shot and a level playing field. I am committed to working with President Obama and Congressional leadership in passing common sense reforms to promote and advance all Americans – seniors, the middle class, college students, and our children. Now is the time to move forward and work together to create a better America.
01.14.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today on Jim Tressel’s induction into the College Football Hall of Fame: I extend my deepest congratulations to Jim Tressel for being inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame class of 2015. Jim coached 15 seasons at Youngstown State University, winning four Divison I-AA national titles; he went on to coach 10 seasons at The Ohio State University, winning the Division I national title in 2002 – and remains the only coach to ever win a national championship in both divisions. He has dedicated his life, both on and off the field, to help his athletes not only excel in football but throughout their lives. Coach Tressel is furthering this legacy in his new position as President of Youngstown State where he is using his experience and leadership to continue to shape a better future for thousands of young people each and every day here in Ohio.
01.14.2015	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today placed a bet on the 2015 College Football Playoff National Championship game. If the University of Oregon wins Ryan agreed to give DeFazio a gallon of Columbus, Ohio’s famous Jeni’s Splendid Ice Cream and a gallon of Youngstown, Ohio's famous Handel's Homemade Ice Cream & Yogurt; and, if The Ohio State University wins the game DeFazio agreed to give Ryan a bottle of Oregon wine. They will appear together before the National Championship Game on MSNBC’s Ed Show Monday, January 12th during the 5:00 hour to discuss the wager. “I am excited to see the Ohio State Buckeyes take on the Oregon Ducks to decide the National Championship. Urban Meyer, the Ohio State coaching staff and players have proven they are in the top echelon of college football and I am confident on Monday the Buckeyes will bring their 8th National Championship title home to Columbus. I look forward to drinking a celebratory glass of Oregon wine Monday night,” said Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-D). “Ohio State has a great program, but as we just saw in the Rose Bowl, Oregon is at the very top of its game right now. This team is fast, well-coached and lead on the field by Heisman winner Marcus Mariota. I predict Monday night will be extra sweet as I celebrate Oregon’s national title along with a bowl of Ohio ice cream,” said Congressman Peter DeFazio (OR-D).
01.14.2015	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today regarding President Obama’s America’s College Promise proposal, which will enable up to 9 million students to receive a free community college education: "I applaud President Obama’s leadership and foresight with America’s College Promise proposal, which has the ability to enable an estimated 9 million students to receive a free community college education. Community Colleges are an important part of our higher education system and I am pleased the White House is giving them the attention and support they have earned and so deeply deserve. Northeast Ohio has some of our nation’s premier community colleges in Eastern Gateway Community College, Cuyahoga Community College and Stark State University and this proposal will mean increased access and affordability for our young people to receive quality higher education right here at home. I call on Congress to act swiftly and pass legislation to make America’s College Promise a reality. If we want to stay competitive as a nation it is crucial that we continue to have the most educated and skilled workforce for generations to come," said Congressman Ryan. The America’s College Promise proposal makes two years of community college free for responsible students, letting students earn the first half of a bachelor’s degree and earn skills needed in the workforce at no cost. This proposal will require everyone to do their part: community colleges must strengthen their programs and increase the number of students who graduate, states must invest more in higher education and training, and students must take responsibility for their education, earn good grades, and stay on track to graduate. The program would be undertaken in partnership with states and is inspired by new programs in Tennessee and Chicago. If all states participate, an estimated 9 million students could benefit. A full-time community college student could save an average of $3,800 in tuition per year. In addition, the President will propose a new American Technical Training Fund to expand innovative, high-quality technical training programs similar to Tennessee Tech Centers that meet employer needs and help prepare more Americans for better paying jobs. These proposals build on a number of historic investments the President has made in college affordability and quality since taking office, including a $1,000 increase in the maximum Pell Grant award to help working and middle class families, the creation of the $2,500 American Opportunity Tax Credit, reforming student loans to eliminate subsidies to banks to invest in making college more affordable and keeping student debt manageable, and making available over $2 billion in grants to connect community colleges with employers to develop programs that are designed to get hard-working students good jobs.
01.14.2015	WASHINGTON, DC—Members of Congress, union and environmental activists, a leading American businessman and consumer advocates stood together today to show the breadth of opposition to Fast Track Authority. A proposal to grant these powers to President Obama, which would allow trade agreements such as the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) to be rammed through Congress with little debate or transparency, is expected to be unveiled early this year. The Obama Administration is currently working to finalize the TPP, a twelve-nation, NAFTA-style trade pact that will destroy American jobs and threaten food safety. To watch Congressman Ryan's statement click here
01.06.2015	Washington DC -- Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement today after being sworn in for his 7th term as a member of the United States House of Representatives: “It is a great honor to serve Ohio’s 13th District and I want to thank my constituents for the opportunity to continue to represent them in the 114th Congress. As we begin a new term in the U.S. House of Representatives, it is my hope that both sides of the aisle will work together for the benefit of the American people. “Thomas Jefferson once remarked that ‘the care of human life and happiness is the first and only legitimate object of good government.’ If both Democrats and Republicans work in ways that truly put the country first and political considerations a distant second, we can make progress on the important issues we face like jobs, immigration, the budget, education and health care. “Northeast Ohio has made great strides over the past few years, and I vow to continue this work and help improve the lives of Ohioans and Americans across the nation.” To play click here
01.05.2015	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement after the Federal Bureau of Prisons’ (BOP) decision not to renew the Corrections Corporation of America’s (CCA) contract to house inmates at the Northeast Ohio Correctional Center (NEOCC): “After pulling members of the Ohio Congressional delegation together to support this facility, sending a letter and having several conversations with the Federal Bureau of Prisons, both personally and at the staff level, I am extremely disappointed with the outcome. We worked closely with CCA throughout this entire process and while I know we did all we could to help, it is of little consolation to the 400 plus men and women who work at the facility, and the City which benefits from the prison’s economic impact. “NEOCC’s role in the federal prison system deserves to be extended; CCA, NEOCC and the Valley as a whole have earned it. I will do everything in my power to ensure that these employees have the opportunity to do what they do best and continue their jobs in the federal prison system. Further I will continue to work to grow the economy in the Mahoning Valley so that we can create opportunities for all of our displaced workers."
12.22.2014	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement and summary regarding this week’s natural gas leak in Monroe County: “My thoughts and prayers go out to the families who were forced to evacuate their homes so close to the holidays as a result of the recent natural gas leak in Monroe County. I am extremely concerned with the frequency in which these accidents have occurred in Ohio this year, and even further disturbed by the slow response time in resolving these situations. It is clear that a more thorough, statewide policy needs to be put into place, along with the necessary funding, to more quickly address these kinds of accidents that are forcing Ohioans from their homes and causing potential damage to our air and water. “Natural gas development can be a great economic driver for our State, but it must be done with the proper safety protocols, oversight, and preparation. As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I welcome input from Governor Kasich if further federal funds or technical assistance are needed to bolster Ohio’s efforts in maintaining safety around the natural gas and oil development taking place throughout Ohio.” Earlier this week, a leak at the Triad Hunter Stalder well pad near Sardis in Monroe County started leaking natural gas. On June 28th, a StatOil North America well pad in Clarington, Ohio leaked chemicals which caused a fire that sent twenty trucks into flames and burned for nearly a week. On May 4th, an oil and gas well in in Beverly, Ohio leaked approximately 1,600 gallons of oil and chemicals into a tributary of the Muskingum River. All three incidents resulted in evacuations of nearby residents.
12.22.2014	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement tonight after he voted against the Omnibus Appropriations bill: "This Appropriations bill is a hand- out to the big banks and opens the door for big money to further corrupt our political process all the while gutting the pensions of working class families. While I believe it is important to pass a long term government funding bill, I could not vote in favor of this package that includes so many toxic, partisan provisions. This legislation fails to include an extension of the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC), which helped so many struggling families pay their health bills, including more than 20,000 Delphi salaried retirees. On top of that I am vehemently opposed to the last minute inclusion of language that severely cuts the pensions of retirees enrolled in multi-employer pension plans. These changes would slash the benefits of the hardworking men and women of my District and across the nation who are entitled to the retirement they were promised. "This legislation, if enacted, would also be one of the most corrupting campaign finance rules on our books by allowing individuals to contribute to each national party’s three committees a total of $1,555,200 per election cycle. We are continuing down a dangerous path when it comes to how our elections are paid for and how our democracy operates. Furthermore, I cannot support the inclusion of language, written by Citi Group, that allows taxpayer-insured commercial banks to trade derivatives. Banks have the right to gamble with their own money, but the risk cannot be on the backs of the American taxpayers. I am disappointed that Congress could not compromise and pass a clean government funding bill. The American people deserve better."
12.22.2014	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following letter, calling on The Tamarkin Company and Teamsters Local 377 to continue attempts to settle their labor dispute. To Whom It May Concern, I am calling on the management team at Tamarkin, a subsidiary of Giant Eagle, and members of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters Local 377, to quickly and efficiently negotiate a fair resolution to the ongoing labor dispute. The result of an impasse is simply not in the best interests of the workers, the company or this community. It is natural and understandable for each side to fight passionately for what they believe in, but common ground and compromise is required to reach a successful outcome. Both sides should be commended for their dedication and perseverance – too much time has been spent to end the process now. The negotiating process was created to prevent costly and unnecessary disruptions that benefit neither labor nor management. It also serves to maintain the fundamental dignity of working people, and provide the company with a skilled and stable workforce. I am hopeful that both negotiating teams will return to a good faith bargaining process and reach a fair and equitable agreement for all sides. Concerted and continuing efforts to reach an agreement can be challenging but I believe we can come to an agreement before rash decisions are made. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
12.22.2014	Washington, D.C. – With increasing numbers of Americans falling victim to drug addiction and overdoses from heroin and opiates, Congressman Tim Ryan (D, OH-13) and Congressman David Joyce (R, OH-14) joined Congressman James Sensenbrenner (R, WI-5) in introducing bipartisan legislation that could help turn the tide in the struggle against this epidemic. The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2014 provides a series of incentives and resources designed to encourage states and local communities to advance a continuum of proven strategies to combat addiction. Among other things, the bill would expand prevention and education efforts— particularly aimed at teens, parents and other caretakers, and aging populations—to prevent the abuse of opioids and heroin and to promote treatment and recovery. It would also expand the availability of naloxone to law enforcement agencies and other first responders to help in the reversal of overdoses to save lives, and strengthen prescription drug monitoring programs to help states monitor and track prescription drug diversion.“There is no question that heroin and opiate addiction ruins lives, disrupts families and contributes to destabilizing our neighborhoods,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “The provisions in this bill have already been shown to work, and will help us fight this epidemic by providing the tools needed by the law enforcement community and others to respond quickly and thoroughly. Since 2007, fatal drug overdoses have been the leading cause of accidental death in our state, and this bill will help reduce those numbers.”"After 25 years as Geagua County prosecutor, I'm a firm advocate for this legislation because everyone will benefit by providing more tools for communities and agencies to combat this heroin epidemic," said Congressman David Joyce. The legislation is the companion to the Senate’s Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, S. 2839, introduced in September 2014 by Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Rob Portman (R-OH), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) and Pat Leahy (D-VT). The legislation is supported by 93 organizations, including the National District Attorneys Association, the National Association of State Alcohol and Drug Abuse Directors (NASADAD), Faces and Voices of Recovery, the National Council for Behavioral Health, and the Major County Sheriffs’ Association, among others.
12.18.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan and Congressman Bill Johnson today urged the U.S. Commerce Department urging the Department to “effectively apply the U.S. trade remedy laws and fully enforce the antidumping (“AD”) and countervailing duty (“CVD”) orders on aluminum extrusions from China.” Joining Ryan and Johnson on the letter were Congressmen Pete Sessions (TX-32), Lynn Westmoreland (GA-3), Walter Jones (NC-3), Paul Tonko (NY-20) and Collin Peterson (MN-7), and Congresswomen Ann McLane Kuster (NH-2) and Diane Black (TN-6). “Once again we are faced with the prospect of the Chinese taking advantage of American workers by importing aluminum products to the United States that have been subsidized by the Chinese government and once again I stand in opposition to allowing this to happen,” said Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-D). “The U.S. Commerce Department needs to ensure that not one more worker should lose their job or one more factory should close because of unfair Chinese imports.” “It’s vital that we continue to protect American industries from unfair trade practices – Pennex Aluminum Company in Leetonia is just one of the companies that has been harmed by China’s imbalanced trade policies in the past. This letter asks the Commerce Department to fully enforce U.S. Trade Remedy Laws to protect hard-working Americans in Eastern Ohio, and across the country, from trade manipulation by Chinese aluminum producers. I’m proud to have joined Congressman Ryan in authoring this bipartisan letter,” said Congressman Bill Johnson (OH-R). Aluminum extrusions are extruded metal profiles in nearly every shape and size used in virtually every type of industry in the United States. Aluminum extrusions are incorporated into everything from computers, cars, appliances, doors, windows, and large scale commercial buildings. In May 2011, the U.S. government imposed trade orders on Chinese products. However, the relief from this decision is currently at risk due to a number of recent determinations made by the Department of Commerce narrowing the scope of the orders and the Commerce’s continued reliance on the London Metals Exchange (“LME”) benchmark to calculate subsidies. This benchmark does not accurately reflect the actual price to obtain primary aluminum. America’s aluminum extrusions industry, with $4.6 billion in sales in 2010, employs approximately 30,000 direct workers and hundreds of thousands of indirect workers, all of which benefit the economy of the United States and our communities. The preservation of these jobs, which are vital to the stability and growth of this industry and important for American manufacturing, are endangered if the unfair trade practices of Chinese aluminum producers are not fully addressed. ### Text of letter follows: December 11, 2014 Mr. Paul Piquado Assistant Secretary for Enforcement and Compliance U.S. Department of Commerce 14th Street & Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20230 Dear Assistant Secretary Piquado: On behalf of our constituents in the domestic aluminum extrusions industry, we are writing to encourage the Department of Commerce (“Department”) to effectively apply the U.S. trade remedy laws and fully enforce the antidumping (“AD”) and countervailing duty (“CVD”) orders on aluminum extrusions from China. As the Department is aware, it was only a few years ago that the U.S. aluminum extrusions industry was on the verge of collapse. Dumped and subsidized aluminum extrusions from China were surging into the U.S. market at a rapid pace. At its peak, Chinese producers of aluminum extrusions held 19 percent of what was a $5.4 billion dollar U.S. market, more than any other source of foreign imports combined. This wave of low priced imports crippled domestic production, reduced capacity, and caused mill closures and significant job loss. In response, the domestic industry petitioned the U.S. Government for relief under the U.S. trade remedy laws. The Department properly concluded that Chinese producers were selling their aluminum extrusions in the U.S. market at dumping and subsidy margins of 33 percent and up to 374 percent, respectively. This dumping and subsidization was found to be injuring U.S. producers and their workers. As a result, in May 2011, the Department imposed trade orders on these Chinese products. Our constituents now inform us that this relief is at risk due to a number of recent determinations made by the Department regarding whether certain aluminum extrusions are covered under the scope of the AD and CVD orders. It is our understanding that the agency is increasingly and inappropriately narrowing the scope of the orders by excluding aluminum extrusions with incidental non-extruded parts from coverage. This is contrary to the plain language of the scope, which clearly covers all aluminum extrusions whether fabricated and/or incorporated as parts into a subassembly with non-extruded parts. We are concerned that any interpretation otherwise defeats the very purpose of the orders and threatens renewed harm to the domestic industry and its workers and threatens to allow what should otherwise be a limited exception to become the rule. We have also been informed that in calculating the subsidy for the provision of primary aluminum for less than adequate remuneration, the Department inappropriately relied on a London Metals Exchange (“LME”) benchmark in its preliminary determination in the current administrative review of the CVD order. Specifically, we understand that the Department’s regulations require that its benchmark reflect the price that a Chinese company would pay if it purchased primary aluminum on the global market. However, the LME cash price selected by the Department does not reflect the full “all-in” price a purchaser would pay without the addition of regional premiums to take physical possession of the product. We also understand that the LME cash settlement price is largely based on distorted pricing for Chinese aluminum. For these reasons, we are concerned that the Department’s continued reliance on an LME benchmark will, contrary to its statutory mandate, prevent the agency from calculating an accurate subsidy margin. In closing, we appreciate the Department’s attention to these critical issues and are confident that the agency will take our concerns under serious consideration. Successfully addressing these issues is vital to ensuring the continued health and viability of the domestic aluminum extrusions industry and its workers. Respectfully submitted, Congressman Tim Ryan Congressman Bill Johnson Congressman Pete Sessions Congresswoman Diane Black Congressman Lynn Westmoreland Congressman Walter Jones Congressman Paul Tonko Congressman Collin Peterson Congresswoman Ann Mclane Kuster
12.15.2014	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan secured $10 million in funding to create an additive manufacturing innovation research program based at Wright Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio. The program will equip the United States Air Force with the technology and expertise to use 3D printing and other emerging manufacturing techniques to fabricate low-volume replacement parts for weapons systems at a lower cost than can be achieved through current defense procurement processes. Ohio is a leader in the field of additive manufacturing with Youngstown State University and the University of Dayton Research Institute already working together on ways to increase the use of additive manufacturing in the military. Northeast Ohio is also home to America Makes (formerly known as the National Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute). “I am proud to have secured funding for this important research that will ultimately grow high-paying manufacturing jobs in Ohio and across the United States while reducing costs for the Department of Defense. Additive manufacturing is transforming every sector of our national economy and this program further positions Ohio, which already has a successful additive manufacturing hub in Youngstown, as a leader in this arena,”said Congressman Ryan. “We are pleased to be working with UDRI on this important research effort. Working together with our industrial partners and our colleagues at the Youngstown Business Incubator, our faculty has established a strong program that is creating new opportunities to utilize additive manufacturing for the production of parts to be used throughout the supply chain. The Department of Defense initiative will further provide our students with a world class opportunity to be engaged in cutting edge research,” said Dr. Martin Abraham, Interim Provost at Youngstown State University. “These funds will enable Youngstown State University and the University of Dayton Research Institute to work with the Air Force in applying our unique capabilities in advanced manufacturing technologies to improving fleet readiness and reducing maintenance costs,” said John Leland, Interim Vice President for Research at the University of Dayton. Congressman Ryan, a member of the House Defense Subcommittee on Appropriations was able to obtain $10 million for the program in the Fiscal Year 2015 Defense Appropriations Bill, which passed the House Appropriations Committee in June of 2014 and was included in the recently passed Omnibus Appropriations bill. The Omnibus Appropriations bill has been passed by the House of Representatives and the Senate and is expected to soon be signed by the President.
12.15.2014	“I was honored to be featured on 60 Minutes this week and have the opportunity to share how the practice of mindfulness has helped me personally and professionally. I am grateful that this segment highlights the work I am doing in Congress. These types of practices are helping veterans heal from the unbearable traumas of war, Marines increase their resiliency, and students increasing their focus and improving their behavior through more mental discipline and less stress," said Congressman Ryan. “There has been nothing more rewarding than seeing Veterans who were taking 10 or 12 prescription drugs and not sleeping through the night start a meditation practice. Many of them dramatically reduce their medication to one or two pills and start sleeping through the night. With 22 Veterans taking their own life each day in America, I am passionate about getting more of them access to these types of techniques. " "Scientific research of mindfulness meditation has shown that after just eight weeks of practice it can reduce stress, depression and anxiety, while increasing awareness and focus. These benefits are why it has been used by professional sports teams like the Super Bowl champion Seattle Seahawks and the multiple NBA champions Los Angeles Lakers and Chicago Bulls. These types of Integrative Health/Mind Body techniques are successfully being used in world renowned institutions like the Cleveland Clinic, The Ohio State University and Yale University. We also see these practices being taught in many Fortune 500 companies around the country from Silicon Valley to Wall Street. I am convinced that we can shift the current state of our country if we start developing the fundamentals necessary for success: mental discipline, resiliency, grit and high levels of awareness of ourselves and others. Mindfulness practice cultivates all of these qualities. I applaud Anderson Cooper and 60 Minutes for bringing attention to the important work being done in this field. It can transform our country into a calmer and kinder place for our children and all of our citizens.”
12.09.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today applauded the unanimous House passage of bipartisan legislation to address the epidemic of suicide among our nation’s veterans. “I am heartbroken by the staggering number of our veterans who are suffering from PTSD and TBI,” said Congressman Ryan. “As co-chairman of the Military Mental Health Caucus I was pleased this legislation passed and that it provides our men and women in uniform the care and support they have earned and so deeply deserve. It is shameful that more veterans have died from suicide than died in combat in recent years. We must do everything in our power to stem the tide of this national tragedy. While this bill is a step in the right direction, we still have a lot of work left to be done.” Twenty-two veterans commit suicide every day – more than 8,000 every year. Of the more than 2 million Americans who have served in combat in Afghanistan and Iraq, it is estimated that one-third, roughly 600,000 women and men, have traumatic brain injury, PTSD or depression. Named in honor of an Iraq and Afghanistan War veteran and noted suicide prevention advocate who took his own life on March 31, 2011, The Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act (H.R. 5059) is another step toward ensuring our nation’s veterans have the support they need by expanding access to and improving the effectiveness of mental health care for our veterans. The Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act will establish a peer support and community outreach pilot program to assist transitioning service members with accessing VA mental health care services. To ease access to services, the bill will require the VA to create a one-stop, interactive website to serve as a centralized source of information regarding all mental health services for veterans. A student loan repayment pilot program aimed at recruiting and retaining psychiatrists included in the legislation will help address the shortage of mental health care professionals. To improve care, the legislation will require an annual, third-party evaluation of all mental health care and suicide prevention practices and programs at the VA to find out what’s working and what’s not.
12.04.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today after voting in favor of the FY2015 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA): “While this legislation was far from perfect, I was proud to vote in favor of the 2015 NDAA today. This bipartisan bill ensures that American men and women in uniform are provided with the tools they need and the benefits and support they deserve – including a much needed 1% pay increase for military personnel. We must have a military that is prepared for the threats and challenges our nation faces around the world, and it is the responsibility of Congress to give them every opportunity to succeed. “As Co-Chair of the Military Mental Health Caucus, I support the inclusion of a person-to-person mental health assessment for active duty and reserve members; funding for improvements in identification and treatment for mental conditions and traumatic brain injury among the Armed Forces; as well as funding for mental health stigma reduction efforts in the Department of Defense. The mental health provisions of this bill could have gone further, however, and I look forward to continuing to make improvements in this area next year. “Furthermore, I am pleased that the NDAA took great strides to strengthen sexual assault provisions, including an elimination of a loophole that allows alleged attackers to avoid charges by showcasing a positive military record; the formation of an appeals process for victims who were discharged due to the consequences of their assault; and the establishment of a Defense Advisory Committee on Investigation, Prosecution, and Defense of Sexual Assault in the Military.” ### Michael Zetts Press Secretary Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13) Office: 202.225.5261 Mobile: 330.398.2569 Email: Michael.Zetts@mail.house.gov
12.04.2014	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today in response to his vote in favor of the One-Year Tax Extenders Bill: “I was pleased to support this legislation which extends much needed tax deductions and credits for individuals and businesses across our nation. This bill enables Americans to have the certainty they need to move forward with their personal and business finances. While I would have preferred that this legislation included an extension of the Health Coverage Tax Credit, it does contain many tax provisions that will help businesses and working families. It also provides for both continued investments in low income communities and clean energy advancements. "I call on the Republican leadership to act quickly and pass an extension of the Health Coverage Tax Credit, a lifeline for American families impacted by unfair trade policies and the many Delphi salaried retirees in my District and across the nation."
12.02.2014	Washington, D.C – Congressman Tim Ryan today is announcing two U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Farm to School Program grants for the Stark County Educational Service Center and the Akron City Schools. These grants are part of more than $5 million announced earlier today by Secretary Tom Vilsack for 82 projects in 42 states that support the USDA’s efforts to connect school cafeterias with local farmers. “The Farm to School program will get more fruits and vegetables into our school districts, and I am proud to support these efforts by the USDA,” said Congressman Ryan. “Increasing the amount of fresh and local food in our schools is crucial for students to get enough to eat, and addresses our nation’s obesity and diabetes epidemics, especially in children.” “USDA is proud to support communities across the country as they plan and implement innovative farm to school projects,” said Secretary Vilsack. “Community partners are coming together to ensure a bright and healthy future for students, and local farmers and ranchers. These inspiring collaborations create long-term benefits for students, as they develop a meaningful understanding of where food comes from, and support our farmers and ranchers by expanding market opportunities for local and regional foods.” The Akron City Schools will receive $44,999 to establish a farm to school program to serve its 22,000 students. The goal is to increase the amount of fresh local fruits and vegetables to help improve students' health, quality of life and longevity. Curriculum will be developed to align with the concept of making healthy choices, the importance of eating locally grown foods, and the benefits that sustainable farming bring to people and the environment. The Stark County Educational Service Center (Stark ESC) Center will receive $43,831for a school planning grant that will benefit the 36,554 students in its eight districts located in Stark County. Stark ESC is working with 12 participating school districts to connect food, farms, schools, and communities in a collaborative effort that establishes a consistent and sustainable plan for local foods procurement, nutrition, wellness, healthy choices, food system education, and community food literacy as part of its farm to school vision. According to the USDA, school districts participating in farm to school programs purchased and served over $385 million in local food in the 2011-2012 school year. Collectively these policies and actions are helping to combat child hunger and obesity, while improving the health and nutrition of the nation's children.
12.02.2014	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to reports that House Republicans’ year-end tax proposal will not extend the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC), which helped struggling American families pay their health bills, including many of the more than 20,000 Delphi salaried retirees whose pensions were terminated during the auto industry rescue and subsequently turned over to the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC). “I cannot understand why House Republicans--with the support of Republican House Speaker John Boehner--have chosen to throw 20,000 Delphi salaried retirees along with dislocated and retired United Steelworkers (USW) under the bus while at the same time extending tax breaks for large corporations,” said Congressman Ryan. “These men and women represent the working middle class in my district and they have already lost so much. I urge the House Republicans to reconsider extending the HCTC in their tax bill, since the HCTC is critical for families in Ohio and across our nation who lost their jobs and portions of their pensions through no fault of their own.” Last month, Congressman Ryan sent a bipartisan letter to the leadership of House Ways and Means Committee and House Congressional Leadership urging to renew include the HCTC extension in the tax extenders bill just as the Senate has included it in their tax extenders bill. In March of this year, Congressman Ryan joined a delegation of 28 Members and Senators from across the country in urging both House and Senate leadership pushing for pushing for the extension of the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC). In July of 2013, Congressman Ryan introduced legislation that would have provided the Delphi Salaried Retirees and other eligible individuals the choice of continuing within the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) program past the program’s December 31, 2013 termination date, or upon leaving the program. In February of 2013, Congressman Ryan co-chairs the Auto Industry Pension Task Force to serve as an informal group of Members dedicated to issues related to the termination of Delphi Salaried Retiree pensions and educating other Members on the subject.
12.01.2014	Dear Friends, Every November we gather together with friends and family to give thanks for the blessings we have received in our lives. Thanksgiving is a time for us to remember those who are less fortunate; those who have gone before us; and those who are away and will soon return – particularly our brothers and sisters serving in our Armed Forces. Thanksgiving is also an opportunity to give back to those less fortunate. Take some time to volunteer at a local food bank or shovel snow for an elderly neighbor. It doesn’t matter how or who you serve, it is the act that makes the difference. I am personally thankful and look forward to spending this holiday with my wife Andrea, our children Mason and Bella, and our newest arrival—Brady. I feel truly blessed to have so many close friends and loved ones in my life. I wish you all a very happy Thanksgiving. Sincerely,
11.26.2014	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan today applauded the U.S. Commerce Department’s preliminary finding that tires manufactured in China and sold in the United States are being subsidized by the Chinese government, leading to the loss of thousands of good-paying jobs for American tire workers. In a letter sent last week with twenty-five of his Congressional colleagues, Congressman Ryan urged U.S. Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker to move quickly to “provide relief that will restore fair trade to the tire sector in the long- term and that will address the surging imports presently facing the industry.”“I am pleased that the US Department of Commerce has recognized once again that American jobs are being jeopardized by unfair trading practices by China. This ruling is the first step in leveling the playing field for hard working Americans,” said Congressman Ryan. “We owe a debt of gratitude to the United Steelworkers for initiating this case.” Anti-dumping and countervailing duty laws provide U.S. businesses and workers with an opportunity to seek relief from market disruptions caused by dumping and unfairly subsided imports into the United States. A copy of the letter to Secretary Pritzker is available here.
11.24.2014	Washington, DC -- Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Mike Turner (R-OH) sent a bipartisan letter to House Leadership reaffirming their strong support for the passage of an extension of the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) as part of a year-end tax extenders bill before the 113th Congress adjourns for the year. The HCTC helps struggling American families pay their health bills, including thousands of Delphi Salaried Retirees whose pensions were terminated during the GM rescue and subsequently turned over to the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation. In March of this year, Reps. Ryan and Turner joined a delegation of 28 Members and Senators from across the country in sending a letter to both House and Senate leadership pushing for pushing for the extension of the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC). In July 2013, Reps. Ryan and Turner introduced legislation that would have provided the Delphi Salaried Retirees and other eligible individuals the choice of continuing within the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) program past the program’s December 31, 2013 termination date, or upon leaving the program. The full text of today's letter can be found below: November 20, 2014 The Honorable John Boehner Speaker of the House U.S. House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Minority Leader U.S. House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable David Camp Chairman Committee on Ways and Means U.S. House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Sander Levin Ranking Member Committee on Ways and Means U.S. House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Speaker Boehner, Leader Pelosi, Chairman Camp and Ranking Member Levin: We wish to reaffirm our strong support for passing an extension of the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) as part of a year-end tax extenders bill before the 113th Congress adjourns for the year. As you know, an extension of the HCTC was included in the Senate’s tax extenders bill and we urge you to include it in the House tax extenders bill as well. The Senate provision, supported by Senate Sherrod Brown and Senator Rob Portman, mirrors H.R.2783, a bill we introduced by in the House. A March 2014 letter supporting the HCTC was signed by 28 Members of Congress and Senators from across the country, and is attached for your reference. Across the country, the HCTC has helped tens of thousands of struggling families pay their health bills. These families include thousands of Delphi retirees whose pensions were terminated during the GM rescue and subsequently turned over to the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation. As you know well, many of 20,000 Delphi salaried retirees lost significant portions of their promised pensions. Without the HCTC, which expired on January 1, 2014, these salaried retirees face financial hardship with up to 50 percent of their remaining pension going to fund their health care premiums. The Delphi retirees have spent all of this year paying for health care out of their own modest income. If Congress fails to act, these retirees will continue to struggle to pay their health care expenses. This is an issue that cannot wait. We urge you to pass a tax extenders bill that includes the two-year extension of the HCTC before the 113th Congress adjourns. Thank you for your attention to this important issue. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress Michael Turner Member of Congress
11.24.2014	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to President Obama’s announcement to take executive action on Immigration: "It’s unfortunate that House Republicans, by refusing to allow passage of any comprehensive immigration reform bills, made this executive action necessary. While Senate Republicans and Democrats passed an immigration bill over 500 days ago, the Republican-controlled House of Representatives has refused to even have a conversation about this critical issue facing our nation. There is no doubt that our country’s immigration system is broken, and I believe the best way to deal with these problems is to pass bipartisan, comprehensive legislation. House Republicans have proven that they are not serious about immigration reform. The extreme right wing of their party will not even allow their leaders to come to the table to negotiate. Unfortunately, President Obama’s hand was forced by House Republicans’ inaction and I fully support his use of presidential powers to move forward unilaterally. While Congress still must pass legislation to fully confront the many immigration issues we face, this is a step in the right direction. "Federal courts have ruled time and time again that U.S. presidents have the power to exercise executive authority. In fact, beginning in 1957 every president since Dwight D. Eisenhower has used these powers on immigration. In 1987, President Ronald Reagan stopped the deportation of 20,000 Nicaraguans. President George H.W. Bush stopped the deportation of Chinese students and Kuwait citizens in the early 1990s. President George W. Bush stopped the deportation of Salvadorian citizens in 2001; he later called for prosecutorial discretion for undocumented immigrants who had served in the U.S. military. There is clear precedence for our nation’s chief executives, on both sides of the aisle, to use their powers to deal with immigration, which shows that Republicans’ crying foul is disingenuous and wholly political. "There is no doubt that we would all prefer to fix our immigration system through the legislative process, and the time to act is now. President Obama’s executive action on immigration is measured and will help level the playing field for all American workers – not just for those who are undocumented - by putting an end to employers hiring undocumented workers in an effort to pay lower wages and avoid providing benefits. This move will create jobs, generate tax revenue and decrease our national deficit. I stand by President Obama’s decision to act and I call on Congress to pass comprehensive immigration legislation to more effectively solve our nation’s broken immigration system."
11.18.2014	Congressman Tim Ryan was reappointed today to the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee, a leadership committee tasked with assigning party members to House committees and advising the Democrats on policy. “I am proud to once again be appointed to this influential committee tasked with advising the Democratic Party on policy matters and assigning party members to House committees. It is a great honor to continue to play a leadership role on Capitol Hill and fight for hard-working families in Ohio and across our nation,” said Congressman Ryan.
11.14.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan voted today against legislation to approve the Keystone XL Pipeline (H.R. 5682). “First and foremost, I have significant concerns with the environmental, safety, economic and trade issues associated with this proposed project. The Keystone Pipeline will carry up to 830,000 barrels of Canadian tar sands oil across the United States to the Gulf Coast to be refined and sold to the global market. The Canadian economy and TransCanada Corp. will see almost all the benefits, while the United States takes on all the risk. Tar sands oil is the dirtiest, most toxic and environmentally dangerous fossil fuel in the world. The existing portion of the pipeline has already suffered 12 spills in its first 12 months of operation, more spills than any other first year pipeline in American history. There is no doubt it is poisoning American lands and aquifers. “Furthermore, over fifty percent of the steel being used is produced by foreign companies. The Keystone Pipeline is not going to lower gas prices and it will not create jobs in Ohio. This legislation, in particular, includes a regulatory loophole that exempts TransCanada Corp. from any oil spill clean-up efforts or costs – putting the burden solely on the backs of the American tax-payer. After careful review I do not believe that the creation of this Keystone Pipeline is in the best interest of the people of Ohio or our nation. “If we want to reinvigorate American Manufacturing then we must focus on shifting to cleaner, alternative energies and increasing our Liquefied Natural Gas exports to our allies around the world.”
11.12.2014	Each year on Veterans Day we remember and pay tribute to the brave men and women who answered our nation’s call of duty and serviced in the United States Armed Forces. Our democracy is the result of these Americans’ selfless dedication to liberty and equality. It is important that we take time today to reflect upon the service and sacrifices our veterans have made and are continuing to make to defend and preserve the enduring freedoms enjoyed across our nation every day. Even in difficult times, we must remember what our veterans have done to ensure America remains strong and continues to be a beacon of hope around the world. Sincerely,
11.12.2014	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Ryan said today that there is new data showing how the Affordable Care Act (ACA) has had a significant impact on the number of uninsured in Ohio and across the nation. Until now it has been difficult to determine who has signed up for coverage, but new data from Enroll America, an organization that helps with enrollment, and Civis Analytics, a data firm, shows the uninsured rate change county by county and breaks down the demographic of those enrolling in the plan. Local data shows we have greatly benefited in our communities across Northeast Ohio and that the ACA is reducing the number of uninsured Americans. “I am proud to have supported this legislation that has helped so many hardworking Americans get the health insurance they deserve and so desperately need. My colleagues on the other side of the aisle have spent each and every day since the Affordable Care Act was passed vilifying and scaring the public into thinking, and sometimes believing, that this law is something that it clearly is not. This is just the next in a long line of reports and studies that are showing that the Affordable Care Act is good for our economy and good for the health of Ohioans and Americans across the country,” said Congressman Ryan. Mahoning County:Uninsured 2013: 18% Uninsured 2014: 11% Change 2013-14: 7% more insured Trumbull County:Uninsured 2013: 17% Uninsured 2014: 10% Change 2013-14: 7% more insured Summit County:Uninsured 2013: 15% Uninsured 2014: 9% Change 2013-14: 6% more insured Portage County:Uninsured 2013: 14% Uninsured 2014: 8% Change 2013-14: 6% more insured
11.12.2014	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan today called on the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to enact a clearer and more tangible way to label the sugar content in foods by changing the measurement to teaspoons instead of grams to make it easier for consumers to conceptualize the true amount of sugar in a product. “This is a small, but important step on the road to better health for all of us,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “The best way to reduce our staggering health care costs in this country is to have a healthier and balanced diet, one with less sugar, salt and fat—and more fresh fruits and vegetables. To do this, we have to start with education—and the first step should be making it easy for people to understand what they are eating and how it is affecting their health.” You can find Congressman Ryan’s letter to the FDA here and below: October 27, 2014 Margaret A. Hamburg Commissioner U.S. Food & Drug Administration 10903 New Hampshire Ave. Silver Spring, MD 20993 Dear Commissioner Hamburg: As you are aware, we have an ongoing obesity and diabetes epidemic in the U. S., especially among our nation’s youth. For the past three decades, childhood obesity rates in America have tripled, and today, nearly one in three children in America are overweight or obese. According to the American Diabetes Association, 29.1 million Americans in 2012 had diabetes, which is up from 25.8 million in 2010. This is translating into skyrocketing healthcare costs. As of March 2013, more than 1 in 10 health care dollars in the U.S. are spent directly on diabetes and its complications, and more than 1 in 5 health care dollars in the U.S. goes to the care of people with diagnosed diabetes. This resulted in $176 billion spent for direct medial costs associated with diabetes in 2012. Studies have shown that one of the biggest contributors to this debilitating and costly trend is the amount of sugar Americans are consuming. While many diets, healthy-eating campaigns, and food companies are highlighting the negative ramifications of fat in our food, we too often ignore the massive amount of sugar in nearly every processed food item. Recently, the World Health Organization proposed guidelines that would encourage people to consume no more than 5% of their total daily calories from sugars. For the average adult, this would equate to approximately 25 grams of sugar, or six teaspoons. I applaud the leadership that you and the FDA have done over the years in advancing the scope of nutrition labeling and transparency. However, I feel that more needs to be done to clarify the true content and consequences of sugar in our food. I have always felt that one of the primary keys to healthier eating is education and understanding your choices. Along those lines, more needs to be done to make the true content of sugar in foods clearer to the general public, which can be confusing for a number of reasons. First and foremost, sugar can come in the form of a multitude of differently named ingredients, such as corn sweetener, corn syrup, high fructose corn syrup, dextrose, sucrose, molasses, fruit juice concentrates, among others. Another often confusing aspect of nutrition labeling is the difference between natural and added sugars. There is also no labeling guidance to help consumers delineate what minimum amount of sugar begins to be harmful to a person and in what way. I urge the FDA to enact a clearer and more tangible way of labeling the sugar content in foods. I believe that labeling sugar in the form of teaspoons would be a much easier way for consumers to conceptualize the true amount of sugar in a food product. I understand that converting a unit of weight to a unit of volume poses challenges and may require estimations, however I am also confident that food producers can reasonable estimate a conversion between grams of the type of sugar used in their product to an equivalent in teaspoons of white granulated sugar—the type of sugar Americans are most likely to be familiar with in their homes. Taking this small step would stand to significantly improve consumer knowledge and, I believe, would help Americans make better choices in their diet. I appreciate you taking this into consideration and look forward to working with you as we look for ways to decrease the prevalence of obesity and diabetes in the United States. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
11.12.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan announced today a grant award from the U.S. Department of Agriculture in the amount of $71,998 for Kent State University’s Ohio Employee Ownership Center (OEOC). The OEOC will use this federal investment to develop and support employee-owned enterprises (ESOPs or Employee/worker-owned Cooperatives), at which the center is a national leader. This work will include building awareness of the employee ownership option, direct assistance to companies in pursuing employee ownership, and developing resources to assist businesses to become employee-owned. The grant will also allow the OEOC to promote and develop businesses in the Northeast region of Ohio.“The Ohio Employee Ownership Center has a long-standing reputation of giving the support and resources necessary for businesses to become employee-owned,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “This investment will help the center provide the essential tools necessary for their work in creating both the wealth and employment that will ensure our economy in northeast Ohio continues to improve.” Roy Messing, the Director of OEOC, stated that, “the USDA grant will provide the center with the necessary initial resources to allow retiring “baby-boomers” to consider selling their business to their employees as a way to maintain the business locally and create a legacy for the departing owner.” The primary objective of the Rural Cooperative Development Grants program is to improve the economic condition of rural areas by assisting individuals or entities in the startup, expansion or operational improvement of rural cooperatives and other business entities. Grants are awarded competitively on an annual basis to Rural Cooperative Development Centers who provide technical assistance to individuals and entities. The estimated program funding for 2014 was $5.8 million.
11.12.2014	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan today announced that Youngstown Chaney STEM/VPN Campus has been selected to receive a grant from Apple that will provide: every student, teacher and administrator with an iPad; every teacher and administrator with an iMac computer; every classroom with an Apple TV; Apple software to support creativity and productivity; and access to a dedicated Apple team to provide ongoing professional development and support. “I am happy that students at the Chaney Campus will have the resources they need to receive an individualized education and access to ever evolving digital content,” said Congressman Ryan. “This will give teachers and administrators the ability to be at the cutting edge of technology and bring their classrooms into the 21st century. As the Cleveland, Youngstown, Pittsburgh TechBelt expands, our students should be able to compete for these jobs, and use these technologies in any given profession. This grant will help ensure they have access today to the real world technologies they will need tomorrow.” Chaney STEM/VPA is one of 114 schools to receive grants totaling $100 million over the next few years. Of these schools, 96 percent of students are eligible for participation in free or reduced-price lunch programs. The schools range in size from 80 students to nearly 1,000 students. Ninety-two percent of the students from Apple partner schools are of Hispanic, Black, Native America, Alaskan Native, or Asian heritage. Through this program, Apple is joining the President Obama’s ConnectED Initiative, which was designed to enrich K-12 education for every student in America. ConnectED empowers teachers with the best technology and the training, and empowers students through individualized learning and rich, digital content.
10.20.2014	Akron, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan joined the Ohio House of Representatives Delegation today to urge the Center for Disease Control (CDC) to provide any and all necessary support to the State of Ohio to determine potential Ebola exposure and risk after one of the Dallas nurses that tested positive for Ebola recently visited her family in Northeast, Ohio. “I call on the CDC to do everything in its power to ensure that any potential Ebola exposure and risk in Ohio is properly addressed and our State has every resource available to keep our community safe and secure,” said Congressman Ryan. Congressman Tim Ryan and the Ohio Congressional Delegation sent the following letter today to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention: October 16, 2014 Director Frieden Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 1600 Clifton Road Atlanta, GA 30329 Director Friedan, The current Ebola epidemic in West Africa, and its subsequent arrival in the United States, has become a source of anxiety for many Americans. Over the past week, Ohioans in particular grew concerned about potential exposure to the virus when it was discovered that a nurse caring for an Ebola patient travelled within the state before subsequently testing positive for the virus. As elected Representatives of the people of Ohio, our primary concern is the health and safety of those we represent. It is our understanding that the Ohio Department of Health and the Governor’s office are working to ensure effective protocols are in place and medical professionals are prepared should any resident of Ohio present symptoms of Ebola. We also understand that strict quarantine procedures have been designed by the Ohio Department of Health that would effectively prevent the spread of the disease if it is found in the State. We are encouraged by these proactive steps and hope that they ultimately prove unnecessary. We write today to ask that the CDC provide any and all necessary support to the state of Ohio in determining any potential exposure, identifying those most at risk, and if necessary, containing and treating anyone that may have come in contact with the Ebola virus. We further ask for an explanation of the policies which allowed a direct caregiver to an infected person to travel to Ohio and what changes have been made to ensure the same does not happen in the future. Finally, we ask that the CDC keep all options for containment in mind moving forward, including travel screenings and restrictions, if appropriate. We appreciate the effort being put forward to effectively prevent widespread exposure by federal, state, and local entities and will continue to monitor the effect of the Ebola virus on the people of Ohio and the rest of the country. Sincerely, Representative Steve Chabot (R - 01) Representative Brad Wenstrup (R - 02) Representative Joyce Beatty (D - 03) Representative Jim Jordan (R - 04) Representative Bob Latta (R - 05) Representative Bill Johnson (R - 06) Representative Bob Gibbs (R - 07) Speaker of the House of Representatives John A. Boehner (R - 08) Representative Marcy Kaptur (D - 09) Representative Michael R. Turner (R - 10) Representative Marcia L. Fudge (D - 11) Representative Patrick J. Tiberi (R - 12) Representative Tim Ryan (D - 13) Representative Dave Joyce (R - 14) Representative Steve Stivers (R - 15) Representative James B. Renacci (R - 16)
10.17.2014	Akron, Ohio -- Congressman Tim Ryan today called on the U.S. State Department to temporarily ban travel visas for citizens of Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea until the West African Ebola outbreak has been contained and American safety can been assured. "I have urged Secretary of State John Kerry to ban travel visas for the West African nations affected by the Ebola outbreak," said Congressman Ryan. "I am proud of the countless American doctors, nurses and health professionals who are putting themselves in harm’s way to provide humanitarian aid the region and I applaud those who are selflessly assisting these nations and understand the need for safe transportation to the region, but we cannot continue to risk American security by allowing open travel into the United States by West African citizens while this health crisis persists. A visa ban is a reasonable measure to help limit Americans' exposure to this virus. Congressman Tim Ryan sent the following letter today to Secretary of State John Kerry and the U.S. State Department: October 16, 2014 The Honorable John Kerry Secretary of State U.S. Department of State 2201 C Street NW Washington, DC 20520 Dear Mr. Secretary: As you are aware, the 2nd U.S. nurse infected with the Ebola virus, Amber Vinson, traveled to my Congressional district just prior to exhibiting symptoms of the disease. Consequently, my constituents and I are rightly concerned that the federal government take all reasonable and appropriate measures to contain the spread of this virus in the U.S. and prevent its arrival in Ohio. As the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Dr. Tom Frieden, stated in his testimony to Congress, the Administration remains open to any measures it believes will help reduce this crisis. As such, I urge you to implement an immediate ban on visas being issued to citizens of the West African counties that have been the worst hit by the Ebola epidemic – Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea – until this crisis in those countries has been brought under control. While there are those who raise concerns that travel restrictions from West African counties could limit the ability of U.S. aid and health workers, I believe these temporary measures would help reduce the spread of the disease in the U.S., while not impacting the travel of essential U.S. personnel and resources to the region. The United States must do everything we can to help the men and women in West Africa who are suffering from this ongoing crisis and concurrently keep in mind the health and safety of our nation’s citizens. This ongoing Ebola epidemic is an unprecedented humanitarian crisis and I applaud your work in helping to limit the spread of the virus while continuing to provide the West African countries with the resources necessary to combat this disease. I appreciate the time and attention you will give this important matter, and I look forward to working with you as we move forward to help combat this disease here at home and around the world." Please do not hesitate to contact my office at 202-225-5261 if you have any questions or concerns. Thank you again for your help. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress cc: Dr. Tom Frieden, Director of Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
10.17.2014	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following response after the announcement that a nurse with ties to Akron, Ohio has tested positive for the Ebola virus: “First, I want to thank all of our health officials in Northeast Ohio and across the country for their dedication and willingness to treat this disease. I would like to offer my support to the family of Amber Joy Vinson, and trust that she will receive the best care available. I am sure this is a difficult time for them and it is my hope for her to be healthy again as soon as possible. “I have been updated about the situation from the CDC and have been in close contact with with local officials and hospitals regarding preparedness and procedures in place to deal with our current situation. I have been assured that there is no reason to panic. At this time, the Ohio Department of Health and the Centers for Disease Control are continuing to investigate, but we must review the policies and procedures that allowed this situation to occur." "At this delicate time, we must trust our public health professionals. I call on the CDC to make resources available to ensure the Northeast Ohioans and Americans across the nation are safe and healthy." If you or someone you know was on Flight 1143 on Monday, October 13th from Cleveland to Dallas, please contact the CDC at 800-232-4636. CDC information on Ebola can be found here.
09.30.2014	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement on the U.S. Supreme Court’s last minute ruling against Ohio’s Early Voting: Just one day before Ohioans were set to go to the polls and cast their vote early, the Supreme Court has decided to limit voting rights in our State. I am utterly outraged by this decision. We know Early Voting and the Golden Week increases voter turnout and gives more citizens a chance to have their voices heard. It is appalling that Governor Kasich and his Administration have spent government resources and our hard-earned tax dollars to bring their case all the way to the Supreme Court for the sole reason of keeping Ohioans away from the polls. ​Voting in elections is one of our country's most sacred freedoms and we should do everything in our power to make it easier, not more difficult.
09.30.2014	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan announces today that Eastern Gateway Community College will receive $3,493,604 in funding from the U.S. Department of Labor. Eastern Gateway will receive $2,493,616 in funding to develop a new manufacturing training center to prepare students for high-skill occupations like welding and industrial maintenance. They will receive an additional $999,988 in funding to create hands-on and work-based advanced manufacturing training programs, as part of a $15 million consortium of 11 colleges led by Lorain County Community College. With these funds, Eastern Gateway will serve workers in Ashtabula, Belmont, Carroll, Geauga, Harrison, Jefferson, Mahoning, Portage, Stark, Trumbull Counties who are eligible for Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) that helps workers who lost their jobs due to unfair foreign trade – including veterans, and adult community college students. “This is wonderful news for Eastern Gateway and Northeast Ohio. The workers in our State have been hit hard over the years by job loss due to unfair foreign trade and a weak economy. These men and women deserve a hand up and an opportunity to develop the additional skills needed to remain employable in an ever-evolving manufacturing sector,” said Congressman Ryan. “These retraining programs are critical for our nation to have the high-skill workforce necessary to remain a world leader in manufacturing.” Congressman Ryan is the founder and Chairman of the House Manufacturing Caucus and is a relentless advocate for American manufacturing. A total of 15 colleges in Ohio will benefit from $24,989,977 in funding to support job-driven training programs
09.30.2014	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement in response to the death of former Congressman Jim Traficant “My thoughts and prayers go out to Congressman Jim Traficant, to his family and close friends. He was a man who possessed tremendous charisma and throughout his career helped thousands of citizens in the Mahoning Valley in many ways. We all pray that he may rest in peace."
09.25.2014	Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan today is announcing $3 million for the Youngstown Business Incubator (YBI) to renovate a fifth building on the YBI’s Tech Block Campus. The new facility will allow the YBI to double its expected economic impact on the region and continue to capitalize on the entrepreneurial growth potential of America Makes. The YBI anticipates the creation of 80 new jobs because of this funding. “On an almost daily basis we see the talent and hard work of the Youngstown Business Incubator paying off in big ways for our community. A couple weeks ago YBI was ranked #1 in the world among university-affiliated incubators, and now they have been awarded $3 million to expand into a fifth building and double their economic impact in our region,” said Congressman Ryan. “Between America Makes in Youngstown, the Think[Box] in Cleveland and the newly formed Bits and Atoms Innovation Center in Akron, a new Maker Triangle is forming in Northeast Ohio that has the potential to be a nationally-known destination for businesses seeking areas rich in research and innovation.” "We couldn't be more thrilled to have earned this award, said Barb Ewing, Chief Operating Officer of the YBI. “The US EDA has been a big part of our past success, and this investment will allow us to have an even greater impact in the future. We sincerely appreciate the assistance of the EDA staff in turning the application around so quickly, as well as the financial support from the state of Ohio and the city of Youngstown." “I am thrilled that the Youngstown Business Incubator will receive this money to expand its campus,” said Youngstown Mayor John McNally. “The city is proud to be a partner in helping the YBI continue its growth in downtown Youngstown.” Congressman Tim Ryan wrote a letter of support to U.S. Department of Commerce on June 10th for this project and its funding. Read the full letter here. This funding comes through the U.S. Economic Development Administration program within the Department of Commerce that awards grants through a competitive process based upon the applicant’s merit, eligibility, and available funds.
09.25.2014	Akron, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan today is announcing $2.5 million in federal funds for the construction of the Bits and Atoms Innovation Center in Akron, Ohio. The Bits and Atoms Innovation Center will be an acceleration/incubator hybrid and will consist of technology-rich collaborative workspaces to foster collaboration and opportunities for Northeast Ohio entrepreneurs. The Bits and Atoms Center anticipates the creation 65 new jobs. “I am proud to support the funding and construction of this cutting edge innovation center right here in the heart of Akron. The Bits and Atoms Innovation Center will create 65 good-paying jobs for the “makers” in our community who are paving the way for tomorrow’s future,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Between the Think[Box] in Cleveland, America Makes in Youngstown and now Akron’s Bits and Atoms Innovation Center, a new Maker Triangle is forming in Northeast Ohio that has the potential to be a nationally-known destination for businesses seeking areas rich in research and innovation. “This is an exciting announcement for the City of Akron and Akron Global Business Accelerator. The Bits and Atoms Innovation Center will be a great complement to our already successful Technology Acceleration Program. This Center will help us further develop an innovation district within the city that will enhance collaboration and help individuals create anything and build a business around it,” said Dr. Anthony Margida, Chief Executive Officer of the Akron Global Business Accelerator. Congressman Tim Ryan wrote a letter of support to U.S. Department of Commerce on June 10th for this project and its funding. Read the full letter here. These funds were secured by the Akron Global Business Accelerator for the construction of the Bits and Atoms Innovation Center. The total cost of the project will be $4.5 million, with the remaining $2 million coming from State funds through the Ohio Capital Awards Program, which the City of Akron intends to leverage as matching funds to complete the project.
09.23.2014	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to strategic strikes against ISIL in Syria led by the United States and a joint coalition of Arab countries: It is clear that ISIL presents a real and serious danger to the United States and the world - they are brutally attacking and occupying territory across Syria and Iraq, taking hostages and executing innocent civilians and continuing to earn $3 million a day on oil revenues that can be used to attack Americans and our interests around the world. I stand behind the strategic strikes in Syria led by the United States and a joint coalition of Arab countries. This is an international problem and I am pleased to see that countries in the region and around the world are joining our nation in the fight against this terrorist threat. As our nation moves forward we need to be vigilant that we are keeping America's national security and best interests in mind. It is unjust, immoral and shortsighted to stand by while this humanitarian crisis escalates in the Middle East and innocent civilians continue to be slaughtered. My thoughts and prayers are with the Armed Forces and their families serving our nation in this conflict. Their sacrifices and courage is a constant inspiration and reminder of what it means to be an American.
09.22.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan today joined Ohio Senators Rob Portman and Sherrod Brown, along with Ohio House members Bob Latta (OH-05), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dave Joyce (OH-14), Marcia Fudge (OH-11), Joyce Beatty (OH-03), Bill Johnson (OH-06), Brad Wenstrup (OH-02), Jim Jordan (OH-04), Pat Tiberi (OH-12), Bob Gibbs (OH-07), Mike Turner (OH-10), Steve Stivers (OH-15), Jim Renacci ( OH-16), and Steve Chabot (OH-01), urging the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to begin work immediately on a Congressional mandated examination of the causes, consequences, and approaches to reduce hypoxia and harmful algal blooms in the Great Lakes and freshwater bodies. "One of Ohio's greatest strategic advantages for economic growth and the overall health and well-being of our people is Ohio’s abundant supply of fresh water," said Congressman Tim Ryan. "We cannot and must not jeopardize that in any way. We must ensure that the Great Lakes, and particularly Lake Erie, will continue to provide safe drinking water for our families. This report will go a long way toward protecting this most vital resource." Recently, President Obama signed into law the Harmful Algal Blooms and Hypoxia Research and Control Amendments Act of 2013 (P.L. 113-124) which prioritizes combating harmful algal blooms in the Great Lakes and freshwater bodies for the first time. Section 605 of the law requires NOAA to conduct and report on research regarding how to combat harmful algal blooms and to complete it by January 1, 2016. “Our Great Lakes and freshwater bodies are a national treasure and extremely important to Ohio’s economy,” the lawmakers wrote. “Lake Erie alone supports over 117,000 full time jobs, and approximately three million Ohioans count on Lake Erie for their drinking water. Your assistance thus far with HABs is greatly appreciated. Through our continued effort we believe we can ensure the safety of our fresh water bodies, and the assessment called for in Section 605 is a significant step in that direction. We look forward to our continued partnership on this issue that is important to Ohio and the nation.” Full text of the letter can be found below. Dr. Kathryn D. Sullivan Under Secretary National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 1401 Constitution Avenue, NW, Room 5128 Washington, D.C. 20230 Dr. Holly Bamford Assistant Administrator National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 1401 Constitution Avenue, NW, Room 5128 Washington, D.C. 20230 Dear Drs. Sullivan and Bamford: Thank you for your efforts to combat Harmful Algal Blooms (HABs), which have so greatly impacted our constituents. As you know, over 500,000 residents in the Toledo, Ohio area were affected this past month during a water emergency following HABs on Lake Erie, and your office played an important role in restoring an all clear status. Recently, Congress passed the Harmful Algal Blooms and Hypoxia Research and Control Amendments Act of 2013 (PL 113-124), which prioritizes combating harmful algal blooms in the Great Lakes and freshwater bodies for the first time. Section 605 of PL 113-124 calls for an integrated assessment no later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of PL 113-124, that examines the causes, consequences, and approaches to reduce hypoxia and harmful algal blooms in the Great Lakes and freshwater bodies. We were recently informed by advocates of the Great Lakes that NOAA has yet to begin implementing Section 605. Because of the continued algal bloom crisis in Lake Erie, we ask that you prioritize efforts to implement this section. The implementation of Section 605 will help ensure that the report called for in the legislation will be submitted to Congress and the President by no later than January 1, 2016. Following the water emergencies in Toledo, Ohio and on Pelee Island, we believe this report is more important than ever so that we may work together to ensure we have a long term solution to combating HABs. Our Great Lakes and freshwater bodies are a national treasure and extremely important to Ohio’s economy. Lake Erie alone supports over 117,000 full time jobs, and approximately 3 million Ohioans count on Lake Erie for their drinking water. Your assistance thus far with HABs is greatly appreciated. Through our continued effort we believe we can ensure the safety of our fresh water bodies, and the assessment called for in Section 605 is a significant step in that direction. We look forward to our continued partnership on this issue that is important to Ohio and the nation. Thank you again for all your hard work.
09.19.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today called on Secretary John Kerry and the United States Department of State to extend immediate assistance to over 1,000 Americans left stranded in Mexico after Hurricane Odile. This was the strongest storm ever to hit the Baja Peninsula – striking land early Monday morning near Cabo San Lucas, leaving thousands, including many Americans, without electricity or fresh water. There are also reports that Tropical Storm Polo is moving toward the area, increasing the urgency of the situation. “It is our solemn duty to ensure any American stranded through no fault of their own is assisted on the ground and evacuated when needed. The situation in Cabo San Lucas, leaving 1,000 Americans and many from the 13th District with no water or electricity, is such that we must act now to make sure our fellow Americans are safe. I call on Secretary Kerry and the State Department to do everything in its power to rescue the thousands of Americans stranded in Mexico,” said Congressman Ryan. Congressman Ryan is calling on the U.S. government to expedite the evacuation of Americans out of the region, reposition our communications systems so those stranded can reach friends and loved ones, and increase the number of American officials on the ground to assist. To view a copy of the full letter click here Anyone living in the Ohio 13th Congressional District who have family stranded in Mexico due to Hurricane Odile should call Congressman Ryan’s Office at 330-373-0074 for assistance – those living outside Ohio’s 13th Congressional District should call the Member of Congress who represents their region. For Any U.S. citizens affected by Hurricane Odile, or their relatives: The State Department has established a crisis hotline to respond to inquiries about current conditions and loved ones in the impacted area. If you require assistance personally, or wish to inquire on behalf of a friend or family member, please use the following contact information: From the U.S. & Canada: 1-888-407-4747 From Overseas: 1 202-501-4444
09.19.2014	Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today in response to the President Petro Poroshenko of Ukraine’s address to a joint session of Congress: I applaud President Petro Poroshenko for the dedication and passion he has shown in protecting Ukrainian freedom. The world has watched as Ukraine fought to retain its independence and secure a better future for its people. Their struggles show the critical importance of democracy and security in the we live in. The United States can and must do more to assist the people of Ukraine in resisting Russian dominance in the region – we are all in this together.
09.18.2014	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan voted in support of authorizing the Administration to train and equip appropriately vetted elements of the Syrian opposition and other groups or individuals to combat ISIL on the ground in Syria and Iraq."It is clear that ISIL presents a real and serious danger to the United States and the world. As our nation moves forward we need to be vigilant that we are keeping America’s national security and best interests in mind." “I support President Obama’s comprehensive strategy of targeted air strikes, tactical support and intelligence gathering to combat ISIL – without putting United States Armed Forces on the ground. I believe it is necessary to train and prepare local forces in the region to combat this threat, and I voted in favor of this authorization. We cannot allow ISIL to have a safe haven in Syria where they will continue to grow stronger and more dangerous." "There is no doubt that this situation is complicated and that is why we need to insist on continued communication with the Obama Administration about how we can adapt and adjust the plan to the forces on the ground. I am pleased that this authorization includes language that strengthens Congressional oversight and reviews." "It is important that we remember that this is an international problem and I am pleased to see that countries around the world will join the United States in the fight against this terrorist organization. It is important that we do not stand by while this humanitarian crisis escalates in the Middle East and innocent civilians continue to be slaughtered. American can and must have their backs,” said Congressman Tim Ryan This amendment also reiterates that the United States Armed Forces ground troops will not engage in hostilities. In addition, Congressman Ryan voted in support of the Continuing Appropriations Resolution that will fund the government at current levels through December 11, 2013. The previous agreement would have ended on September 30, 2014, and without extending funding the United States government would have been forced to shutdown for the second time in one year.“I am pleased that House Republicans have decided to make the responsible decision to extend government funding and avoid a second government shutdown in the last year. The previous shutdown cost tax payers $24 billion dollars. I would like to have seen an appropriations plan that was extended longer and gave American businesses the stability and confidence they need to do business – but this is a positive step forward,” said Congressman Tim Ryan.
09.17.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan today issued the following statement of congratulations to the Youngstown Business Incubator (YBI), which was ranked by the UBI Index of Stockholm Sweden as the #1 University Affiliated Incubator in the World: “I am thrilled to congratulate the Youngstown Business Incubator on its ranking as the #1 University Affiliated Incubator in the World— the YBI has been creating amazing work for years and this recognition underscores what many in the State have been able to see firsthand. The State of Ohio continues to see economic growth and this award highlights the incredible talent of the people and organizations of Northeast Ohio. “The YBI works with an array of companies all over the State, ensuring that each has the information, resources and support needed to succeed. I want to extend my thanks and congratulations to Jim Cossler, Barb Ewing and the entire team at the YBI. "The hard work and perseverance it took to achieve this global honor has helped injected energy and investment into our State and, most importantly, given our young people opportunity to come back to live, work and raise their families in our region."
09.15.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) made the following statement on Urban Outfitters’ Kent State Sweatshirt: On May 4, 1970, four students lost their lives at Kent State University and changed our country forever. It is deplorable for Urban Outfitters to exploit the pain and suffering of this national tragedy for their gain. May 4th was a seminal and transformational moment in American history and we should never lose sight of its immense impact. Those who cannot remember the past, are condemned to repeat it. Congressman Ryan has represented Kent State University since being elected to the United States House of Representatives in 2002.
09.11.2014	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following response to President Obama's Address to the Nation regarding ISIS: "I stand with President Obama and support his comprehensive strategy of targeted air strikes, tactical support, intelligence gathering, and the training of local forces in the region to combat ISIS. I also strongly support the President’s decision not to involve American ground troops at this time. This is an international problem and I am pleased to see that countries around the world will join the United States in the fight against this terrorist organization. "As our nation moves forward we need to be vigilant that we are keeping America’s national security and best interests in mind. Therefore, Congress must play an active role in the deliberations and be part of the debate as the strategy moves forward. ISIS is a major threat to peace and security and America and its allies must do everything in their power to dismantle and destroy this threat."
09.11.2014	Washington, D.C. – At the invitation of Congressman Tim Ryan, Juanita Pasley, Executive Director of the United Methodist Community Center, briefed the House Manufacturing Caucus yesterday on the work being done to help veterans of both Mahoning and Trumbull Counties secure employment. As part of the caucus panel titled Putting Our Veterans to Work in Manufacturing, Pasley pointed out that there are more than 43,500 veterans who live in the Youngstown-Warren area, and over 24,000 of those are under the age of 64, providing a good base for potential employers. For video click here “I want to thank Juanita for taking the time and effort to come to Washington, D.C. and sharing the story of her work,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Juanita and the United Methodist Community Center are providing our veterans with the skills necessary to find the best job opportunities. This is an important cause, especially for veterans that live in our cities and often need more resources and support after their military service.” “My staff and I are proud to assist veterans through their journey of returning and reintegrating into the workforce,” said Juanita Pasley. “The inner-city veteran often returns with little or no family or community support, and faces high unemployment and high crime rates within their community. Our goal is to help veterans and their families return to a caring community filled with promise.” Juanita joined Mary Emily Slate, Vice President and General Manager of Nucor Steel, located in Auburn, NY, and Ryan Gallucci, Deputy Director for National Veterans Service, Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) in presenting to the House Manufacturing Caucus, which serves to educated Congressional members and staff on the importance of manufacturing to the nation. For text of Ms. Pasley’s presentation, click here: I am here today to provide you with a Community based perspective of how the United Methodist Community Center assists veterans through their journey of returning and reintegrating into the workforce and a caring community. A quick look at the current job market provides a sobering picture of anyone looking for work. Unemployment rates are high, underemployment is a common problem. All of this information may paint a dire picture for veterans returning from active duty, especially those being discharged as a part of drawdown of U.S. operations in the Middle East. However, the good news is, there are certain industries experiencing a shortage of skilled workers, which means there are untapped sectors where jobs are plentiful. One of them is manufacturing. Fortunately for the veterans, this congress is dedicated to connecting employers involved in the manufacturing industry with veterans in need of jobs. Returning veterans tend to be older and more geographically dispersed than generations preceding them. They are very proud individuals who find difficulty in asking for help. According to the American Fact Finder, in 2010 more than 43,500 veterans still call Youngstown and Warren, Ohio their home, of these, over 24,000 are currently under the age of 64, providing a good base for potential employees. Despite the public awareness of the Iraqi and Afghanistan wars, there are challenges facing returning veterans and their families that are often invisible to their local communities and employers. The Mahoning Valley sees two types of returning veterans; those who return to rural or suburban areas and those who return to urban/inner-city areas. The veteran returning to the rural or suburban area typically has family and community support. 90% return to previous employment or find new employment quickly when pointed in the direction of the manufacturing and industrial sites that have relocated to suburban areas. The urban or inner-city veteran returns with little or no family or community support, thus becoming the homeless or chronically homeless Veteran. The inner-city veteran faces high unemployment rates and high crime rates within the community living beneath the federal poverty level. In Mahoning County there are 4,918 veterans out of 20,000 living in poverty. There is no industry or manufacturing. There is little to no transportation for employment searches, appointments with their local Veterans Administration Commission or Clinicor the Ohio Means Jobs. This veteran is at a high risk for drug and alcohol abuse and suicide, which presents a further barrier when trying to obtain employment. Manufacture and employment services need to have a holistic plan that includes intensive individual assessment, diverse recruitment, housing, financial counseling, mentoring, substance abuse, mental health and legal services. Local businesses must be more than a resource to this process. Keep in mind that industries are able and willing to employ veterans, however, they don’t know how. As a part of the holistic approach the manufacturing industry must be educated and a part of the planning process. How can manufacturers and veterans be linked together? · Town halls driven by local legislators; where the public, manufacturers, and veterans are able to provide input as to how to help veterans to secure employment. · Solutions need to be attainable by the people who need them most. The plan must be tailored to the population being served. · A location for manufacturers to go where there is training in the needs, barriers, and skills of veterans. For example, some barriers many veterans face are: · Difficulty sleeping · Depression · Anxiety · Difficulty concentrating · Attention deficit issues · Difficulty making decisions · Anger Management · Substance and Alcohol Abuse Case management is the heart of our UMCC Ready Workforce Program, and the cornerstone of our success with veterans. Our case managers build trust and respect, are knowledgeable about community resources, are trained in trauma, and have connections to resources needed to assist our veterans and their families. UMCC delivers its employment services through in-house paid staff in both Trumbull and Mahoning Counties. Our Ready Workforce Program served 197 Homeless and Chronically Homeless veterans, 115 of veterans were placed in meaningful jobs. The average hourly wage secured was $9.00 and up per hour and 58.4% of placements remain employed at the ninety day post placement date. Placements do include GM, Galaxy and other sites. UMCC uses a holistic twelve step plan for employment including the following: · Active outreach (soup kitchens, rescue missions, shelters, VA Clinic commission offices and other areas known to the local homeless community) (McDonald’s?) · Culturally & economically diverse recruitment in the community setting · Ongoing engagement with community resources · Enduring relationships with local industry with a clear understanding of employer expectation and need such as the Employer Lunch ‘N’ Learn · Employment resources (Ohio Means Jobs) · Emergency services such as food, clothing, utility assistance for Veterans and their families ( SSVF Grant –Supportive Services for Veteran Families) · Housing, affordable or adequate · Transportation · Legal services such as veterans treatment court, child support, and driver’s license reinstatement · Individual case management which includes Individual Assessment, HUD-VASH tools that are assessment based and Work Keys testing · Vigilantly tracking client outcomes · After care follow up for employment retention must continue to service them after the grant period. I commend you legislators for the funds that are allocated to services for veterans and their families, however, there are challenges for smaller, grassroots community based agencies when it comes to receiving these funds and grant retention. Smaller agencies compete with larger agencies who have more personnel, and who can reach more geographical space. Smaller agencies, while unable to reach such large geographical spaces, can and do reach more veterans, providing more intensive, holistic services; services our veterans need. We are currently waiting to hear from DOL on SSVF Grant submitted earlier this summer. We also are sponsoring a Stand Down funded by DOL. The UMCC has plans for a Drop-In Center, following national Best Practices, and implementing the eight values set by the Veteran Center in New York. These values are; · Veteran & Family Focused – the center exists to serve veterans and their families, no matter the veterans status · Culturally Competent Mission Driven – employ staff who understand the military culture, fitting with the UMCC’s long history of providing services with a mission to teach, develop, and empower individuals and their families · Barrier Free – staff and families, manufacturers and communities will work together to remove as many barriers as possible to meet planned goals · Coordinated & Clear – the staff is a wealth of information and coordinate with partners needed to provide health and wellness services seamlessly · Complement, Don’t Duplicate – An array of services built around what our community partners provide already · Active Outreach & Engagement – Reaching those who need services is a priority, however, engaging and educating the community is also important · Performance Oriented – An active plan articulated and achievable goals keep the program focused Learning Organization – Flexible in approach in order to meet the needs of our Veterans. Ongoing evaluation of the program, ensuring needs are met. Staff continuing education to maintain practice-based research and research-based practice. Working together; communities, manufacturers, agencies, legislators, and veterans will be able to provide our veterans and their families in returning to caring communities filled with promise. Thank you
09.04.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan announces a grant award of $3.6M from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute of the National Institutes of Health to Drs. David Fresco and Joel Hughes of Kent State University and Dr. Jeffrey Greeson of the University of Pennsylvania. The grant award will fund a 5-year study called Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction for High Blood Pressure. This project has been christened as ‘the Serenity Study,’ and will recruit and treat 180 individuals from Northeast Ohio (University Hospitals, Case Western Reserve University) and Philadelphia (University of Pennsylvania) with un-medicated hypertension to see if life style modification can help keep them off of antihypertensive medication. “I am a relentless advocate and proponent of Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction and have seen positive results in lowering stress and pain levels in both students and adults,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “I am excited about this proposal and congratulate Drs. Fresco, Hughes and Greeson on their hard work in securing this award. Too many of us have lifestyles that involve high levels of stress, which lead to high blood pressure and other health issues. The work of these doctors is a strong step in the direction of healthy living.” Dr. David Fresco of Kent State University added: "We’ve long known of a simple straight forward way to manage one’s blood pressure. It involves following a regimen of diet and exercise. Trouble is, things that are simple are not always easy. Many of us struggle to follow a healthy lifestyle and stress makes it so much harder. One thing about our project is that we believe that teaching individuals skills for stress managements, such as mindfulness meditation, may help them deal with stress head on and strengthen their resolve to make a healthy lifestyle a priority in their lives." To help them in their efforts of living this healthier lifestyle, patients will receive one of two programs designed to help manage stress. Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction is a proven stress reduction program that in their prior work has been shown to reduce blood pressure in a smaller trial of patients from NE Ohio. MBSR will be compared to Stress Management Education (SME) which is also a stress reducing program that attempts to achieve stress management without teaching individuals about meditation.
09.03.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan is announcing today a $124,429 grant to the Youngstown Neighborhood Development Corporation from The U.S. Department of the Treasury's Community Development Financial Institutions Fund (CDFI Fund). The CDFI fund provides support to expand financial products and services that will be available to the Youngstown area and will help our area achieve long term neighborhood sustainability. “Federal support for organizations like Youngstown Neighborhood Development Corporation is essential to making neighborhoods safe and productive," said Congressman Tim Ryan. “In just a few short years, YNDC has started changing the landscapes of our neighborhoods. Their work has never been more important, and I will always be supportive of their efforts.”"YNDC is excited to be awarded a CDFI Technical Assistance grant from the US Treasury. The grant will build YNDC's capacity to be certified by the US Treasury as a Community Development Financial Institution (CDFI) within two years. Once certified YNDC can further leverage public and private funds to provide critical financial products and services for housing and neighborhood development throughout the City of Youngstown," said Ian Beniston, YNDC Executive Director. The Youngstown Neighborhood Development Corporation (YNDC) encourages commercial reinvestment to eliminate blight and negative perceptions throughout the city. YNDC works to renovate neighborhoods through long-term investments to increase the quality of life and provide affordable financial products and services to generate pedestrian and commercial activity.
09.03.2014	Congressman Tim Ryan today issued the following statement in response to the International Trade Commission ruling on the dumping of imports in certain Oil Country Tubular Goods (OCTG) into the United States: “I am pleased that International Trade Commission has come out on the side of American manufacturing. This decision makes it clear that a number of countries have been taking advantage of our American workers—and gaining an unfair advantage provided not by competition and higher productivity, but by government subsidies and currency manipulations. As I have said before, we cannot allow good-paying jobs to be taken away from companies in my District like Warren’s Energex Tube, TMK IPSCO, and Vallourec Star. “This also ensures that going forward, companies will not be able to take advantage of American manufacturing. In testimony that I submitted to the International Trade Commission, I noted that Vallourec Steel has invested over $1 billion, created over 350 jobs, but has struggled to compete with overseas companies, particularly from Korea. The ITC’s decision will give Ohio the level playing field it deserves and help our state remain one of the top steel producers in the country.” US International Trade Commission press release on the decision can be found here. ###
08.19.2014	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan applauds the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) today for announcing that $2 million in conservation funds will be sent to Ohio to implement conservation techniques that will help improve water quality. Ryan is also lauding a USDA and National Fish and Wildlife Foundation partnership that is contributing an additional $1 million in technical assistance to expand “boots-on-the-ground” capacity in the area. This announcement was made in response to the disrupted water service in the Toledo area due to algae blooms in Lake Erie. “I applaud the USDA and National Fish and Wildlife Foundation for their efforts to help the people of Toledo and greater Northwest Ohio in their time of need. We must ensure that Lake Erie can provide safe drinking water for our families and these funds and technical assistance will go a long way toward protecting our most vital resource,” said Congressman Ryan. Earlier this month, Congressman Ryan sent a letter to EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy, urging her to act aggressively and expeditiously in clean water protection in light of the recent toxic-water scare in the Toledo area and the ongoing algae problems facing Lake Erie in a letter. See full release here. See full text of the USDA announcement below: USDA Invests New Conservation Funds to Improve Lake Erie Water Quality WASHINGTON, August 19, 2014--Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack announced today that $2 million in conservation funds will be sent to Ohio to help implement conservation techniques that will help improve water quality. The Secretary said USDA is also partnering with the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation to expand “boots-on-the-ground” capacity in the area and will be contributing an additional $1 million in technical assistance which will in turn be leveraged by the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation along with other public and private entities. Earlier this month, water service in Toledo, Ohio was disrupted by algae blooms in Lake Erie. The new funding is the latest contribution of resources to the Lake Erie watershed from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), which has invested $46 million in the watershed since 2009. “The voluntary conservation efforts supported by this new funding will help improve water quality in Lake Erie,” Vilsack said. “Many farmers have consistently stepped up to the plate on efforts to protect our water and we want to provide support and incentives for continued action. Along with these resources, we will be offering technical and financial assistance through our direct relationships with farmers, and by partnering with private and public groups on continuing conservation efforts in the Great Lakes basin.” The Ohio Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS), an agency within the U.S. Department of Agriculture, is accepting applications from farmers this week for resources that will help with the planting of cover crops, which experts agree offer the best protection to prevent soil and nutrient erosion in the next season. The funding will be allocated to the Western Lake Erie Basin (WLEB) to help farmers and partners accelerate water quality conservation activities to benefit Lake Erie. NRCS will be providing up to $2 million in Environmental Quality Incentive Program (EQIP) funds in Ohio for a targeted, one-week signup. This signup will be focused on planting cover crops on vulnerable soils this fall in order to reduce soil and nutrient loss from farm fields. A number of factors contribute to algae blooms. Warm water, lack of agitation, rainfall and runoff from farms, lawns, and other sources can all contribute to the problem. Members of the scientific community believe that global warming is contributing to earlier blooms, not just in waterways in the United States but elsewhere. Conservation practices such as no-till reduce the amounts of sediment and nutrients in run-off, which is also influenced by the amount of precipitation and the time precipitation occurs. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the USDA are working together to assist producers in efforts to reduce runoff by planting cover crops, controlling drainage and constructing systems like anaerobic digesters to reduce the amount of untreated effluent entering ditches, streams, rivers and lakes. Last week, NRCS leadership met with more than 100 farmers, agricultural groups and fertilizer dealers in Ohio to talk about the expertise USDA can offer and to spread the word about the best conservation practices for the watershed. “Farmers understand how recent events may impact them and are motivated to work with us to reduce phosphorus run-off, starting now with the planting of additional cover crops,” NRCS Chief Jason Weller said. “We created this opportunity for farmers who want to get cover on their fields quickly, and we will continue to create complete nutrient management plans for long-term water quality and sustainability practices.” Along with its ongoing conservation efforts that have contributed $46 million since 2009, in May the Great Lakes Basin was also designated by Vilsack as a critical conservation area, or CCA, in the new 2014 Farm Bill Regional Conservation Partnership Program. That new program will invest $1.2 billion in innovative conservation efforts through partnerships with non-federal entities, who are expected to match the federal investment for a total of $2.4 billion in conservation resources.
08.18.2014	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan is announcing today a $200,640.00 grant to Youngstown State University and a $347,096.00 grant to Kent State University, both from the National Science Foundation. Youngstown State University Professor Ruigang Wang is providing research to help improve the performance of systems primarily used in the automobile industry to convert dangerous carbon monoxide emissions to less harmful substances. The research is further impacted by the inclusion of community college faculty from the surrounding region as part of the research team. Kent State University Professor Oleg Lavrentovich is researching further Liquid-Crystal advancement, for which the University is already well-known. This project addresses important challenges regarding the presence of defects in the liquid crystal. Improved understanding of liquid crystal anchoring and defect dynamics will allow for higher resolution, faster display devices. “Federal research support from the National Science Foundation (NSF) is important in providing the funding that can both advance our technology and have an impact on the industries that provide employment,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “I am happy to commend not only the NSF, but Professors Wang and Laventovich for their ability to secure this funding and for their research and work with students.” The NSF funds research and education in science and engineering, through grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements. The National Science Foundation accounts for about 20 percent of federal support to academic institutions for basic research.
08.07.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13) and U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) applauded today’s restart of the Warren Steel Holdings company. The company’s new production follows the successful efforts by Brown and Ryan to urge the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) to agree to a “Reasonable Arrangement” that would reduce energy costs for the company and enable it to remain competitive. Late last month, PUCO agreed to this request and Warren Steel Holdings announced that it would reopen its facility, saving hundreds of Mahoning Valley jobs in the process. “I am pleased that Warren Steel Holdings got the utility rate reduction needed to restart their mill,” Ryan said. “This decision will help Warren Steel Holdings remain competitive as they seek new opportunities for growth and increased employment.” “This is an excellent day for Mahoning Valley workers and the local economy,” Brown said. “The reopening of Warren Steel Holdings will save hundreds of jobs and $53 million in employee compensation. Facility upgrades can now be made, and new jobs created. PUCO made the right decision, and as a result, the Mahoning Valley is strengthened.” In March 2014, Warren Steel Holdings suspended operations due in part to high energy costs. The company indicated that it had no plans to restart operations unless it acquired a more competitive power rate. Last month’s ruling not only enabled the company to restart operations, but to upgrade its facilities and create new jobs in the future. Ryan and Brown’s June 2014 letter to Tom Johnson, the Chairman of PUCO, can be read in its entirety HERE.
08.07.2014	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan Announces $1.67 million in National Science Foundation research grants to be awarded to Kent State University. “I applaud Kent State University for securing these federal grants. Advancements in education and scientific research are crucial for us to grow as a nation – and I am proud these investments are being made right here in our backyard,” said Congressman Ryan. “These well-deserved grants only further highlight Kent State’s outstanding academic and research record.” Kent State University has received the following five federal grant awards through the National Science Foundation: "DMREF/Collaborative Research: Chemoresponsive Liquid Crystals Based on Metal Ion-Ligand Coordination" will receive $503,622.00 “US Ireland R&D Partnership: Ferroelectric and Electroclinic Effects in Nano-particle Doped de Vries Smectic Liquid Crystals: Molecular Organisation and Order" will receive 385,000.00 "Charge transfer, injection and mobility in organic semi-conducting materials: modeling for insight on mechanistic aspects" will receive $325,683.00 "Photo-Aligning Molecular Orientations in Liquid Crystal Polymers into Complex Patterns for Programmable Origami” will receive $300,000.00 "MRI: Acquisition of an Intuitive Multi-Touch Scanning Electron Microscope to Enhance Research as well as Undergraduate Student Research and Natural Science Courses" will receive $161,039.00
08.07.2014	Warren, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan applauds the FDA for enforcing ‘gluten-free’ labeling standards and calls on the Administration to move forward with establishing guidelines to identify gluten in medications. Last year, the FDA created a rule that disallowed food manufacturers from labeling any food ‘gluten-free,’ unless the product contains less than 20 parts per million of gluten – which is generally recognized by the medical community as a low enough amount of wheat, rye or barley to not affect those with celiac disease. “Celiac disease is a growing issue for our country and as elected officials it is our duty to give those affected all the resources they need to treat their disease,” said Congressman Ryan. “I applaud the FDA for taking the necessary steps to ensure that when Americans buy their groceries they have enough information to keep themselves and their families healthy.” Congressman Ryan has introduced the Gluten in Medicine Disclosure Act of 2013, which if passed it will make it easier to identify ingredients containing gluten in drug products. It also requires that drugs intended for human use have a label containing an identification of ingredients constituting or derived from a grain or starch. “Since we now label food products containing wheat, why shouldn’t Americans have similar information pertaining to their medications? I am proud to have introduced legislation that can help avert the serious health risk millions of Americans are forced to endure every day while taking unlabeled, potentially harmful medications. I call on the FDA to move swiftly and insure that American medications containing gluten are labeled accurately. The health of our citizens is too important for us not to act,” said Congressman Ryan. This legislation is crucial for the millions of Americans affected by this life-long digestive disorder triggered by the ingestion of gluten or wheat grain products. According to the Mayo Clinic, celiac disease has increased by as much as four times in the last decade and affects three million Americans. The standard treatment for celiac disease is the elimination of gluten-containing products; and for some individuals, failure to avoid these can cause life-threatening complications. The Gluten in Medicine Disclosure Act has been endorsed by: American Celiac Disease Alliance, National Foundation for Celiac Awareness, Celiac Disease Foundation, Celiac Sprue Association, Gluten Intolerance Group, North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, and the American College of Gastroenterology.
08.05.2014	Warren, OH – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan strongly urged the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, Gina McCarthy to act aggressively and expeditiously in clean water protection in light of the recent toxic-water scare in the Toledo area and the ongoing algae problems facing Lake Erie: Dear Administrator McCarthy: I write to express my concern about the 258 toxic algae reports in 2014 on Lake Erie, at state park beaches, and in Ohio public-water supplies. One of Ohio's greatest strategic advantages for economic growth and the overall health and well-being of our people is Ohio’s abundant supply of fresh water. We cannot and must not jeopardize that in any way. If we do, we endanger the health of our citizens and sacrifice the long term prospects to grow our State’s economy and lure potential businesses from states where fresh water is a scarce commodity. We must keep this advantage. I was encouraged by the Agency’s recently finalized ‘no discharge’ rule to mitigate the dumping of sewage on the eastern half of the Lake. However, the health of Lake Erie must not continue to be at the mercy of these prolonged rule-making processes, like the nearly two years it took for this most recent finalization. The recent toxic-water scare in the Toledo could be just the first in a long line of disastrous public health ramifications from the ongoing algae problems that Lake Erie has suffered from over the past few years. I call on the EPA to take swift action to ensure Lake Erie can provide safe drinking water for our children and families and a safe environment for tourists to visit our beaches and lakeside attractions. Lake Erie is not only an incomparable natural resource but a real driver of the regional economy. I call on the EPA to provide a transparent plan for ensuring Ohioans that our water supply is safe and Lake Erie is protected. While I acknowledge the EPA has been reluctant to do so in the past, I would also request that the EPA provide specific ways that I and my fellow Appropriations Committee members can address shortfalls or funding gaps that may inhibit your efforts in the area of clean water protection. Thank you for your consideration and hard work, I look forward to your response. Sincerely,Tim RyanMember of Congress
08.01.2014	Congressman Tim Ryan today issued the following statement on the death of former Youngstown Mayor George Vukovich: “When I first started my political career I was lucky enough to have spent time with George. He always had great stories to tell if the good old days. But more importantly he always gave good advice and counsel. I will always remember how much he talked about and treasured his family, especially his grand kids. I really enjoyed our time together and want to express my deep condolences to his wife Helen, and to his family and friends.”
08.01.2014	Warren, OH - Congressman Tim Ryan is today announcing a grant award of $448,767.00 for the Youngstown-Warren Regional Airport from the Federal Aviation Administration to construct a 365 foot taxiway to provide access to aircraft hangers and to meet federal design standards. This funding will also provide for a windcone on Runway 14 to improve safety and provide pilots with critical airfield information.“This is great news for the Youngstown Warren Regional Airport,” said Congressman Tim Ryan, “and I am always going to be supportive of federal investments at the airport. I congratulate Dan Dickten, the Director of Aviation at the airport, and the Western Reserve Port Authority for their work in securing this grant.” Previous federal awards to the Youngstown-Warren Regional Airport include over $8 million for YARS housing and $1 million for improvements to Kings Graves Road. Congressman Ryan will continue his efforts to secure federal investments at both the Youngstown Warren Regional Airport and the Youngstown Air Reserve Station in order to maintain and expand operations there.
07.30.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan today voted in favor of HR 3230, the Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act, a bipartisan agreement that will improve accountability and access to care for veterans within the Department of Veterans Affairs. This bill provides $10 billion to fund a pilot program to immediately address the VA wait-time crisis by allowing veterans who have waited 30 days or more for an appointment with the VA or who live more than 40 miles from a VA facility to seek care outside the VA health care system, including from a private physician or a community health center. This bill includes $1.5 billion to lease 27 new VA clinics in 18 states and Puerto Rico to bring care closer to where veterans live and increase access to specialty care services. Lastly, the bill provides $5 billion for VA to begin to address systemic problems within the VA health care system by hiring more primary and specialty care physicians and other medical staff, and includes incentives to attract more doctors, nurses and other medical personnel to the VA.“I am proud to stand with groups like the American Legion, the Veterans of Foreign Wars and Disabled American Veterans in support of this legislation. Our veterans deserve the best medical care this nation can provide and this bill, while not perfect, is a step in the right direction,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Our veterans should be receiving cutting edge mental and physical health treatments and they should never be forced to endure these long wait periods and downright corruption. I look forward to the day our veterans get the care they have earned and deserve.” Congressman Ryan, who introduced the Combating Military Sexual Assault Act of 2013, also supports that this legislation expands VA authority to provide counseling, care and other services to veterans and certain other non-veteran service members who have experienced military sexual trauma during active or inactive duty training, including members of the National Guard and Reserves. Congressman Ryan has also introduced bills in Congress to improve the mental health treatment of veterans, including the Medical Evaluation Parity for Service Members (MEPS) Act, which will help the military identify behavioral health issues and improve suicide prevention by instituting a mental health assessment for all incoming military recruits. The Veterans and Armed Forces Health Promotion Act, also introduced by Congressman Ryan, expands the use of complementary and alternative medicine to help treat Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI).
07.30.2014	Washington DC – Representatives Tim Ryan (OH-13) and Marcia Fudge (OH-11) applaud the Akron City Council for expressing their support for The Breaking Addiction Act of 2014 (HR 5136), which was introduced by Rep. Fudge and co-sponsored by Rep. Ryan, Democratic Co-Chair of the Addiction Treatment and Recovery Caucus. Both Members of Congress represent Akron in the US House of Representatives. “We understand the damage substance abuse inflicts upon Akron, the State of Ohio and our nation. Ohio is currently experiencing a heroin epidemic – since 2007, fatal drug overdoses have been the leading cause of accidental death in our state. It is imperative that we begin to stem this tide. We are proud to stand with the City of Akron to do everything in our power to provide the services and assistance that are so vital to our community,” said Reps. Ryan and Fudge. “Here in Akron, we continue to work toward stopping this epidemic. Currently, there is no sign of slowing down. According to our EMS statistics, the use of Narcan has increased from 230 in 2013 to 243 in 2014. We appreciate and fully support Akron’s Congressional representatives Marcia Fudge and Tim Ryan in their efforts to expand cost-effective, community based treatment options in our efforts to address the heroine/opiate epidemic,” said Akron City Councilman at Large Jeff Fusco. On July 28, the Akron City Council passed Resolution No. 254 -2014. You can view the full text of the resolution HERE.
07.28.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan voted this week on two bipartisan bills that would provide students more information about financing their education and a third bill that would give students access to higher-quality, and more flexible education opportunities that could better meet their needs. “All too often I hear from college graduates and their families about the crippling debt they have incurred while pursuing the American dream through higher education,” said Congressman Ryan. “While these are modest steps, I support every effort to make education and the promise of prosperity available to every citizen within my district and across the nation.” Empowering Students Through Enhanced Financial Counseling Act (HR 4984) provides improved information and counseling on financial aid and student debt so that students can make informed decisions on how to finance their education. Because of this legislation entrance counseling for student loan borrowers will now take place before a borrower is asked to accept the loan. The Strengthening Transparency in Higher Education Act (HR 4983) requires schools to annually update and project how much a student will be expected to borrow throughout their educational career, and what their monthly payment would look like under various repayment plans. Parents borrowing loans for their children will also have access to the same information. In addition, institutions of higher education will be required to provide enrollment numbers, graduation rates, employment statistics, projected salary statistics, and average student loan statistics. Advancing Competency-Based Education Demonstration Project Act (H.R. 3136) provides funding to the Secretary of Education to select institutions of higher education to participate in a pilot program that would enable schools to voluntarily participate in in Competency-Based Education Demonstration Program that would provide participating schools with the ability to offer competency-based education and allow them to use Federal student aid to pay for the education. Previously these sorts of programs did not meet certain statutory and regulatory requirements that prevented them from participating in federal student aid programs. This will enable schools to focus on measuring student achievement through assessment of a student’s knowledge and skills rather than by the completion of clock or credit hours, thus allowing for a strengths based perspective that will enable schools to cater to a student’s individual learning style.
07.28.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan announces today that Warren and Akron Fire Departments have been awarded Fire Prevention and Safety grants through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Department of Homeland Security. Akron Fire Department received $83,963.00 and Warren Fire Department received $35,140. “There are few things more important than supporting services that help protect the lives of our families and friends, and as a result I always offer my support to grants of this nature," said Congressman Ryan. “This money will enhance fire prevention and over all safety to both departments. I congratulate Akron Fire Chief Rob Ross and Warren Fire Chief Ken Nussle for their hard work in obtaining these grants” “Here in Warren we’ve been very aggressive in pursuing grants, and as a result we’ve been quite successful in bringing in additional funding to our department,” said Warren Fire Chief Ken Nussle. “We, like all localities are not immune to arson, and we will use these federal dollars to enhance our fire investigation efforts, provide additional training, and purchase better equipment” “We plan to use these federal monies to reduce the number of fire related deaths and injuries by lowering the number of homes in our community that are not adequately protected by smoke alarms,” said Akron Fire Chief Rob Ross. “Our long term goal is to have smoke alarms installed in 100% of our city’s residential occupancies; this grant is a step toward reaching that goal. The project is also designed to protect the lives of our hearing impaired citizens with strobe light/audible smoke alarms.” The goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and emergency medical service organizations. Operations and Safety grants can be used for professional training, wellness and fitness programs equipment, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critical equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. For more information, please visit the program’s website.
07.24.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and U.S. Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13) applauded a ruling by the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) that would help protect hundreds of Mahoning Valley jobs. PUCO agreed to a “Reasonable Arrangement” that will reduce energy costs for the Warren Steel Holdings company and enable it to remain competitive. The ruling follows Brown’s and Ryan’s efforts earlier this month to urge PUCO to take this action for the wellbeing of the Valley and its workers. “This is excellent news for Mahoning Valley workers and the local economy,” Brown said. “A plant closure would have cost the region hundreds of jobs and employees would have lost $53 million in compensation. By approving a fair electricity rate, the Valley will avoid job loss and potentially see new jobs created in the future. PUCO made the right decision, and as a result, the Mahoning Valley will be strengthened.” “I am pleased that Warren Steel Holdings will be getting a utility rate reduction that will protect local jobs and allow them to restart their mill,” Ryan said. “This decision will help Warren Steel Holdings remain competitive as they seek new opportunities for growth and increased employment.” In March 2014, Warren Steel Holdings suspended operations due in part to high energy costs. The company indicated that it had no plans to restart operations unless it acquired a more competitive power rate. Today’s ruling would not only enable the company to restart operations, but to upgrade its facilities and create new jobs. Brown’s and Ryan’s June 2014 letter to Tom Johnson, the Chairman of PUCO, can be read in its entirety HERE.
07.22.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Tim Ryan submitted written testimony to the International Trade Commission, urging them to uphold the Federal Trade Commission’s recent preliminary decision against illegal Korean dumping of OCTG goods.“Korea and other countries have been dumping tubular goods into the United States at the expense of our own workers, many of them in my own District,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. "As I have said many times, our workers can compete for and win the market on a level playing field, but other countries must play by the same rules.”“We are encouraged by the Department of Commerce’s recent findings regarding duties on low priced imported Oil Country Tubular Goods (OCTG) from Korea and the other eight countries," said Dave Mitch, President and CEO of TMK IPSCO, who also testified. “We have seen intense pressure from low-priced and unfairly traded imports for more than a year and a half. This has negatively impacted jobs and capital for investment. As an Ohio employer, TMK IPSCO appreciates Congressman Ryan’s support on this important issue.” Congressman Ryan’s testimony is as follows: Testimony of U.S. Representative Tim Ryan (D-OH-13) Certain Oil Country Tubular Goods from India, Korea, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, and Vietnam U.S. International Trade Commission – 500 E Street, SW Washington DC Tuesday, July 15, 2014 – 9:30AM Good Morning, Chairwoman Broadbent and Members of the Commission. I would like to convey my sentiments regarding a case that is vital to the rejuvenation of the United States and Ohio’s economy and the creation of jobs in my Congressional district. Please accept my sincere appreciation for the work you have done thus far regarding the Oil Country Tubular Goods (OCTG) case. You have found in the past that the Chinese producers of OCTG are part of a massive, overbuilt Chinese industry supported by Chinese government subsidies. Preliminary determinations by the Department of Commerce confirm – what I and the industry have believed for some time – that a number of countries are dumping their products into the United States and taking good-paying jobs away from American workers; including those at JMC Steel, TMK IPSCO, and Vallourec Star. In July of 2013, these companies joined other industry partners in filing a case against Korea and the eight other countries for illegally dumping products into our market. Korean steel tubular imports have skyrocketed over the years – exceeding 1 million tons in 2013, representing 40% of all imports and taking approximately 20% of the U.S. market. In addition, more than 900,000 tons of welded line pipe were imported from Korea in 2013, taking approximately 30% of the U.S. welded line pipe market. Both of these tubular products are vital to the growing energy sector and are important to the future of Ohio’s economy as we continue to expand natural gas exploration. Ohio’s economy has experienced a resurgence in recent years partially attributed to new investments by the steel industry; however these gains have seen setbacks due to the ongoing flood of imports. Ohio’s 13th Congressional District is pleased that Vallourec built a new, $1 billion seamless OCTG facility in Youngstown. This investment created over 350 new jobs, which has resonated throughout the entire Youngstown and Northeast Ohio region. Since this investment, however, the plant has been struggling to compete with OCTG imports – particularly from Korea. In addition, TMK has announced reductions in its workforce at a number of facilities, while JMC Steel has instituted layoffs of over 100 workers in their three plants, including their Warren, Ohio plant in my Congressional District. Over the past few years, Ohio has become one of the top steel producing states, but this position will be threatened if we continue to allow foreign countries to create an unfair playing field. My state needs these secure, well-paying jobs to help revive our community and region. Unfairly traded imports of OCTG threatens these companies and these new investments. Without effective relief against imports of OCTG, as well as relief against line pipe from the Korean pipe industry, which has no home market for energy products, Chinese and Korean produced steel will displace most of the U.S. energy tubular industry. This will lead to bankruptcies, plant closures, and the loss of thousands of jobs. Ohio has some of the most talented and highly productive workers in the world, and all they have ever asked for is a level-playing field. Your decision can take us one step closer to making that happen. I ask that you continue to support American workers and do everything in your power to find that these imports undermine and threaten the best interests of U.S. industries. Such a finding will provide for fair trade and attract investment and revive domestic manufacturing in my Congressional district and throughout the United States. Thank you very much.
07.22.2014	*Click Here for Audio Recording of Today’s Press Call Washington DC – Marking five years since the last federal minimum wage increase, paycheck fairness advocates today issued the ‘Live The Wage Challenge’ to Congress: Step into the shoes of a minimum wage worker and live for one week on just $77. Earning just $7.25 an hour, the average full time minimum wage worker struggles to survive on just $77 a week after paying taxes and housing expenses. On a press call today, CAP Action President and former Ohio Governor Ted Strickland, U.S. Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL-9) and U.S. Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH-13) were joined by a low-wage worker to announce they are taking the ‘Live the Wage Challenge’ and will journal their experiences on Facebook and Twitter, using #LiveTheWage. Participating organizations are encouraging their membership to visit www.LiveTheWage.com, to take the challenge and tell their stories on social media. 66 national advocacy and research organizations including Center for American Progress Action Fund, Organizing For Action, NELP, MomsRising.org, Americans United for Change, EPI’s Policy Center, SEIU, AFSCME, AFL-CIO, NCLR, NETWORK: A National Catholic Social Justice Lobby, National Women’s Law Center, 9to5, EMILY's List, American Women, Jobs With Justice are sponsoring the challenge and are encouraging their members to take part and share their stories on social media. In the coming days, new reports and polling data will be released underscoring the worsening economic consequences of the outdated minimum wage. OFA will also launch an integrated digital campaign to support the Challenge, encouraging supporters to join in the Challenge conversation and call on Congress to raise the federal minimum wage. Congressman Tim Ryan: “My family and I are ready to begin the Minimum Wage Challenge. Every day hard working Americans still struggle to make ends meet, and this challenge will give me an opportunity to walk in their shoes, although nothing could ever give me a full perspective of the hardships these men and women endure on a daily basis. I call on all Americans, including minimum wage increase critics, to really consider how difficult it is to pay rent, taxes, utilities, health and to provide food and entertainment for your family on such a small amount of money. I urge all my colleagues on both side of the aisle to join me in the challenge and get a small glimpse of what life is like for those living on minimum wage." Ted Strickland, Former Ohio Governor and President of CAP Action: “No one who works hard and plays by the rules should live in poverty or have to choose between food and electricity every month, but that’s the reality for millions of Americans living on today’s minimum wage. American workers are the backbone of our country, but each day when we hear stories of how our economy is growing out of the recession, we also hear how too many of our working families are being left behind. We need to stand with these 30 million workers, and Congress needs to take action to raise the minimum wage for the first time in five years.” Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky: “My husband and I are taking the Living Wage Challenge this week in solidarity with hard-working families who are trying to make ends meet. Through this effort I believe what is clear to many business owners, employees and economists should finally resonate with House Republicans -- it is time to give America a raise by increasing the minimum wage and getting millions of American families closer to a living wage." Heather Holstein, Low-wage workers from Chicago, IL: “I’m currently an hourly paid employee and I’ve been at my job for over a year. In that time I’ve gotten one raise -- 11 cents. I have a few thousand dollars of hospital debt, but unfortunately with my current income I am unable to pay any of it off. I don’t think my current living situation is sustainable. Both of my parents are on disability, so financially, it’s not an option to ask family for help. My boyfriend and I split living expenses -- I feel so lucky to have that small bit of relief. We’d like to get married and start a family, but with my current income I’m not sure when we’ll be able to do that. Increasing the minimum wage would provide just another bit of relief - I wouldn’t constantly worry if I can afford to go to the doctor or buy food for the week. Even an increase of a dollar an hour would make a world of a difference to me. I would be in a better position to pay off my hospital debt and finish school. My boyfriend and I could start planning our life together. I can’t understand why some leaders in government won’t do anything about this. It’s not right that people working hard can be in such a shaky situation - one bill could put me over the edge. They need to understand how hard this is and how much we are suffering.” While worker productivity is at record highs, profits are concentrated into fewer hands. CEO pay, Wall Street bonuses, and corporate profits have soared over the last five years, and if the minimum wage kept pace with productivity, it would be more than $18 an hour. Instead the average minimum wage worker’s annual earnings have been stuck near $15,000, and more and more working families have slipped into poverty as the price of groceries, utilities, gas and basic necessities have climbed due to inflation. As a result, family budgets are stretched to the breaking point. Nearly a quarter of all of minimum wage workers -- workers that include child care providers, janitors, and nursing assistants -- are the primary bread winners in their family and those who would be affected by a minimum wage increase average 35 years in age. More than 600 economists and business leaders are calling on Congress to give America a raise now. Raising the minimum wage is not just the right thing to do when it comes to income inequality. Raising the minimum wage is one of the most effective ways to kick start the economy,unlike slashing tax rates for billionaires and corporations that ship jobs overseas. Raising the minimum wage from $7.25 to $10.10 would boost the wages of 28 million workers by $35 billion, generate $22 billion in economic activity, and support the creation of 85,000 new jobs. Putting more money in the pockets of minimum wage workers makes them stronger consumers, which leads to more hiring to meet the new demand for goods and service, and helps grow the economy. As an added bonus, a higher minimum wage results in less employee turnover and more productivity. Businesses like Costco and GAP have shown that investing in workers is a recipe for success. America is embracing significantly higher wages. Ten states and three cities have increased wages in the last six months alone, and there are active campaigns to raise local wages in 11 other cities and four states. States like Washington and Colorado that bypassed congress and raised their minimum wages are already feeling the benefits -- seeing faster job growth on average than their neighbors. ADDITIONAL RESOURCES: National Employment Law Project: ‘The Most Rigorous Research Shows Minimum Wage Increases Do Not Reduce Employment’ Economic Policy Institute: Raising the minimum wage to $10.10 would generate $22 billion in economic activity and create 85,000 net new jobs States That Raised Their Minimum Wages Are Experiencing Faster Job Growth: CEPR Minimum Wage Raise Would Reduce Food Stamp Spending By $46 Billion Over Decade: CAP Report Low Wages Cost Taxpayers A Quarter-Trillion Dollars Every Year: Think Progress Six In Ten Small Business Owners Want A $10.10 Minimum Wage: Think Progress
07.18.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Representatives Tim Ryan (OH-13) and Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11) held a news conference in Cleveland today to discuss ​​The Breaking Addiction Act of 2014 (H.R. 5136). The legislation was introduced by Congresswoman Fudge and cosponsored by Congressman Ryan. It establishes a five-year demonstration project to expand cost-effective, community-based treatment options to address the heroin/opiate epidemic. The Breaking Addiction Act will enable participating states to receive federal reimbursement for Medicaid services provided to all eligible in-patients who receive treatment for chemical substance abuse at a community treatment facility. It partially waives what is known as the Institution for Mental Diseases (IMD) exclusion. The 1965 law that created Medicaid excludes states from receiving federal reimbursement for services provided in an IMD with more than 16 patient beds. However, Congress did not foresee nearly 50 years ago that this exclusion would impede communities’ ability to respond to the rapid escalation of heroin addiction and abuse of opiate-based prescription painkillers. “As Democratic Co- Chair of the Addiction Treatment and Recovery Caucus, I understand the damage substance abuse inflicts upon the state of Ohio and our nation. It is estimated that substance abuse costs the United States in excess of $600 billion annually in health, crime and lost productivity costs – and this is nothing compared to the toll it takes on the families, friends, schools and communities affected. It imperative that we begin to stem this tide, and I am proud to stand with Congresswoman Fudge in support of the Breaking Addiction Act, which takes great strides to provide more individuals suffering from substance abuse with treatment options,” said Congressman Ryan. “Fatal drug overdoses now exceed motor vehicle crashes as the leading cause of accidental death in Ohio. Heroin alone claims more lives in Cuyahoga County than homicides. This public health threat affects communities in all regions of the country – impacting urban, suburban and rural areas alike,” said Congresswoman Fudge. “By removing an outmoded barrier to funding for substance abuse treatment, we can go a long way toward reversing the heroin epidemic and saving lives. I am also confident that data collected from this demonstration project will show community treatment will lower the bill to taxpayers for overall health care and decrease law enforcement costs associated with opiate addiction.” The legislation also directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to prepare a report at the conclusion of the project to evaluate the impact of permitting federal reimbursement for addiction treatment on a full range of health care items and services, including costs, access to care, readmissions and emergency care. Click here to read more about the Breaking Addiction Act Click here to see a copy of the legislation
07.17.2014	Youngstown, OH: The Youngstown Maker City Initiative was announced today, a direct response to President Obama’s call to reinvigorate American Manufacturing by creating new hubs of entrepreneurialism and innovation across the United States. The Youngstown Maker City Initiative builds on the strength of our community’s manufacturing heritage by pledging to support local efforts that drive economic growth, create jobs, promote new collaborations, inspire our youth and strengthen STEM-based learning opportunities. The Initiative is a combined effort from Congressman Tim Ryan, America Makes, The Youngstown Business Incubator, The Mahoning County Convention and Visitors Bureau and other. In addition, Youngstown State University will participate in the Maker University Initiative. The Youngstown Maker City Kickoff weekend will be held on July 31 to August 4. During the Kickoff, America Makes will be hosting Make: Magazine’s “3D Printer Shootout” at its Youngstown headquarters – welcoming editors, writers and staff from the premier DIY electronics magazine as they conduct thorough tests of 3D printers for their award winning 3D Printer review issue published annually. The weekend will also feature a VIP reception for invited guest and media on Thursday and a public, family-friendly event on Sunday, with local Makers showcasing their talents, 3D Printer demonstrations as well as a tour of the America Makes facility from 1-4pm. The official Maker City pledge will also take place on Sunday with Congressmen Tim Ryan outlining how the community plans to strengthen current Maker programs and create new ones within this organized effort. While Maker Cities support all types of Making and Manufacturing, Youngstown will have a special focus on 3D Printing, thanks to the Youngstown location of America Makes, The National Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute. The pledge will largely be about leveraging this national hub to strengthen local industry and entrepreneurialism.“Youngstown is setting the standard for 3D Printing, advanced manufacturing and workforce development – and I am excited that we are working towards becoming a Maker City,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Becoming a Maker City is a significant step in realizing the full potential of America Makes and Youngstown remaining one of the premier cities in the country to start and grow a business.” America Makes Founding Director Ralph Resnick says, “Although the recipe for a Maker City is fairly consistent – workforce development, STEM education initiatives, maker spaces, Maker Faires, public/private partnerships, etc. – each city naturally creates a markedly different flavor. For Youngstown, it’s all about 3D Printing. From America Makes to Biz3D, we already have a significant footprint in this exciting industry and are excited to support and grow the city’s efforts in this area. ”
07.15.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and U.S. Reps. Marcia Fudge (OH-11), Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), and Tim Ryan (OH-13) urged the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) to take immediate actions that would expedite a ruling on the pensions of Delphi Salaried Retirees. In their letter to DOL Secretary Thomas Perez, the lawmakers called for the Secretary to intervene and ensure that the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC) makes its final determination as soon as possible. Joining the Ohio lawmakers on their letter were U.S. Sens. Bob Casey (D-PA), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI). “The 20,000 members of the salaried plan have been waiting for almost five years for a final benefit determination from the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC),” the lawmakers wrote. “Recent comments from the PBGC have suggested that the agency has yet to take basic initial steps towards making such a determination. This delay is unsatisfactory and deeply troubling – contradicting the PBGC’s policy to reach a final determination within 3 years of a plan’s termination…Accordingly, we ask that your office intercede in this matter and compel the PBGC to act.” Specifically, the lawmakers called for Secretary Perez to: Intercede and ensure the PBGC accelerates its process for making a final determination; Respond to this request within a month; and Provide their offices and the Delphi Salaried Retirees Association (DSRA) with monthly updates on the PBGC’s progress toward reaching its goals. The lawmakers’ letter to Secretary Perez can be read in its entirety below: Thomas E. Perez Secretary of Labor Unites State Department of Labor 200 Constitution Ave., NW Washington, DC 20210 Dear Secretary Perez: We are writing to request your prompt intervention on behalf of the Delphi Retirement Program for Salaried Retirees. The 20,000 members of the salaried plan have been waiting for almost five years for a final benefit determination from the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC). Recent comments from the PBGC have suggested that the agency has yet to take basic initial steps towards making such a determination. This delay is unsatisfactory and deeply troubling – contradicting the PBGC’s policy to reach a final determination within 3 years of a plan’s termination. It is for these reasons, Mr. Secretary, that we ask you to intervene and compel the PBGC to provide a clear timetable for reaching a final determination by the end of this year. In doing so, we request that you work with the PBGC to ensure that they are able to punctually reach each milestone in the timetable. The case of the Delphi Salaried Retirees is particularly unique, as their pensions were terminated during the rescue of the auto industry. These workers’ pensions were accumulated over a lifetime of work and yet many found their pensions cut by the PBGC. Now, five years later, these workers are forced to continue to live in limbo, denied any certainty or due process in confirming or challenging the cuts to their earned benefits. The PBGC’s response to date has been unacceptable. Two years after exceeding their own deadline for reaching a final determination, the PBGC has failed to undertake a prompt effort to create the necessary documentation to reach that determination. Accordingly, we ask that your office intercede in this matter and compel the PBGC to act. Our understanding is that PBGC currently has suggested that a final determination will be made by 2016. This places an unreasonable burden on the salaried retirees and must be accelerated. We request to receive within one month of receipt of this letter a timeline for completing a final determination. We also ask that you provide our offices and the representatives of the affected individuals, the Delphi Salaried Retirees Association (DSRA), with a monthly update on PBGC’s progress towards reaching the milestones outlined in the timeline.
07.14.2014	Congressman Tim Ryan today issued the following statement in response to the Commerce Department decision on the dumping of imports in certain Oil Country Tubular Goods (OCTG) into the United States: “I am pleased by this significant ruling from the Department of Commerce that confirms what we have believed for some time—that a number of countries are dumping their products into the United States and taking good-paying jobs away from American workers, including those at Warren’s Energex Tube, TMK IPSCO, and Vallourec Star. As our domestic oil and gas industries flourish, we cannot allow the benefits gained to be undermined by unfair foreign competition.” “Foreign nations should not be allowed to sell products in the United States at less than fair value. We have the most talented and highly productive workers in the world, and all they have ever asked for is a level-playing field. This decision takes us one step closer to making that happen. It is my hope that the International Trade Commission, which will make its decisions later this summer, will support American workers and ensure continued employment in these important industries."
07.10.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congress passed a bill that will honor a Summit County fallen hero by renaming the Tallmadge Branch Post Office as the “Lance Corporal Daniel Nathan Deyarmin Jr. Post Office Building.” Deyarmin was a Tallmadge native who died on August 1, 2005, while serving as a Marine in Iraq. The legislation was first introduced by U.S. Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13), with Brown introducing companion Senate legislation. It now awaits President Obama’s signature before becoming law. “I’m proud that this legislation will go to the President’s desk for signature so that we will honor the life and service of Lance Corporal Daniel Nathan Deyarmin Jr., who made the ultimate sacrifice for our country two days after his 22nd birthday,” Congressman Ryan said. “It is important that our communities find a way to honor the lives of their fallen heroes—and renaming the Tallmadge Post Office in Lance Corporal Deyarmin’s memory is a fitting reminder.” “Lance Corporal Daniel Nathan Deyarmin Jr. was a committed member of the U.S. armed forces who fought to secure America’s freedoms,” Senator Brown said. “His sacrifice, and that of his family, should not be forgotten. By renaming the Tallmadge Branch Post Office after him, we can honor his legacy and the example he set for all Americans. I thank Rep. Ryan for introducing and helping pass this bill in the House. And I thank my colleagues in the Senate for helping pass this bill through Congress. Now I urge President Obama to sign this bill into law—in order to honor Lance Corporal Daniel Deyarmin as soon as possible.” Lance Corporal (LCpl) Daniel Nathan Deyarmin Jr. was killed during his first tour of duty in Iraq at age 22. In his honor, his parents and sister founded the “LCpl Daniel ‘Nate’ Deyarmin Memorial Benefit Run,” which benefits disabled and disadvantaged veterans and their families. Also, in March of 2013, the Ohio General Assembly voted to name a stretch of Interstate Route 76 the Lance Corporal Daniel Nathan Deyarmin, Jr., Memorial Highway in his remembrance.
07.09.2014	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan announces today that the Warren Township Fire Department has been awarded a Vehicle Acquisition Grant and the Kent Fire Department have been awarded an Operations and Safety grant, both through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Department of Homeland Security. Warren Township received $92,150 and the Kent Fire Department received $28,080. “Investing in our first responders is always good use of federal dollars, and I am happy to support our local firefighters,” said Congressman Ryan. “This money will enhance fire and emergency services and provide needed safety equipment to both departments. I congratulate Warren Township Fire Chief Ken Schick and Kent Fire Chief Craig Peeps for their hard work in obtaining these grants ” The goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and emergency medical service organizations. Operations and Safety grants can be used for professional training, wellness and fitness programs equipment, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critical equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. For more information, visit the program’s website.
07.09.2014	Congressman Tim Ryan makes the following statement in response to Cleveland’s selection to host the 2016 Republican Nation Convention: I am pleased that the Republican Party has chosen to highlight the great things happening in Northeast Ohio by selecting of Cleveland to host their 2016 National Convention. This will highlight the tremendous assets of Cleveland, Cuyahoga County and all of Northeast Ohio. The Republican National Convention means jobs, economic development, and a positive focus on our region. I applaud the City of Cleveland, Mayor Frank Jackson, Rep. Marcia Fudge and Rep. Marcy Kaptur for winning this great honor. I look forward to Cleveland rising to the occasion and shinning on the national stage. I am also proud that both Cleveland and Columbus remain on the short list to host the 2016 Democratic National Convention. This is yet another reminder of just how important our great state is to the nation and I call on the Democratic Party, for this one and only time, to follow the Republican Party’s lead and host our Convention in Ohio.
07.07.2014	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement today following the Department of Labor announcement of the June Jobs Report: "Today’s Department of Labor jobs announcement that the economy added 288,000 jobs is certainly good news for our workers and businesses. This is the fifth consecutive month that the economy has added over 200,000 jobs and the 52nd consecutive month that the private sector has added jobs. "In my District we have seen a resurgence in manufacturing that is driving our local economies, but there is still more to do. Too many of our workers are looking for employment, yet the Republican-controlled House of Representatives have continuously stood in the way of ‘jobs bills’ that would help our veterans and others find employment—and then shamelessly refuse to renew the unemployment insurance that would put food on their tables. "The country cannot afford for the Republican-led Congress to sit on its hands. We need to renew the Highway Trust Fund, which will run out later this month, and we need to pass Make It In America legislation, which will add jobs and keep the country competitive in the global marketplace. There is too much to do and the American people deserve a Congress that is going to look out for them."
07.07.2014	"I am deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend Paul Heltzel. He was a deeply thoughtful, concerned and dedicated public servant. My staff and I benefited greatly from his wise, straightforward and sound advice. He was always the person we turned to for counsel, whether the issue was within his jurisdiction as a county commissioner or not. He was always committed to serving the public in an honest way. "Our thoughts and prayers go out to his wife Rosemary, their children and the entire Heltzel family. Paul was one of Trumbull County's great assets and our county is much better off because of his service."
07.07.2014	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan today issues the following statement in response to the Supreme Court Ruling allowing exceptions for some corporations from having to comply with the contraceptives mandate within the affordable health care act: “I am very disheartened to hear that the Supreme Court has chosen to stand against decades of progress made by women. No woman should have to choose between necessary health care and having to pay their bills. This ruling will place many Americans in a difficult situation because of their employers’ ability to force their religious beliefs upon them and it will lead to an increase in unplanned pregnancies.” “Today’s ruling against women’s rights not only turns back the clock, but also ushers in a new era of uncertainty. Allowing privately-owned corporations the ability to push their religious beliefs onto their employees opens the gate to possible injustices yet to be realized.”
06.26.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan is pleased that a bill that would honor a Summit County fallen hero moved one step closer to becoming law as the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs passed legislation that would rename the Tallmadge Branch Post Office as the “Lance Corporal Daniel Nathan Deyarmin Jr. Post Office Building.” Deyarmin was a Tallmadge native who died on August 1, 2005, while serving as a Marine in Iraq. The legislation was first introduced by Congressman Ryan before being passed in the House and moving to the Senate where Senator Brown has pushed for its passage.“I am pleased the Senate’s Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee has passed our legislation to rename the Tallmadge Branch Post Office in memory of Lance Corporal Daniel Nathan Deyarmin Jr.,” Congressman Ryan said. “This vote has brought us one step closer to paying tribute to the bravery and sacrifice of Corporal Deyarmin, who served our nation in Iraq and lost his life in the line of duty two days after his 22nd birthday. It is important that our communities find a way to honor the lives of their fallen heroes and this is a fitting reminder.”“In advance of our nation’s Independence Day, it’s important to remember veterans like Lance Corporal Daniel Nathan Deyarmin Jr.,” Senator Brown said. “He was a dedicated and committed member of our nation’s Armed Forces. The selfless sacrifice that he and his family made for our country will not be forgotten. By renaming the Tallmadge Branch Post Office after him, we can help ensure that we honor his legacy. I thank Rep. Ryan for introducing and helping pass this bill in the House. And I thank Senate committee leaders for helping this bill move one step closer to becoming law.” Lance Corporal (LCpl) Daniel Nathan Deyarmin Jr. was killed during his first tour of duty in Iraq at age 22. In his honor, his parents and sister founded the “LCpl Daniel ‘Nate’ Deyarmin Memorial Benefit Run,” which benefits disabled and disadvantaged veterans and their families. Also, in March of 2013, the Ohio General Assembly voted to name a stretch of Interstate Route 76 the Lance Corporal Daniel Nathan Deyarmin, Jr., Memorial Highway in his remembrance.
06.26.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan voted in support of H.R. 6, the Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act, which will expedite and streamline the Department of Energy’s review process of applications to export Liquefied Natural Gas to non-Free Trade Agreement countries. Congressman Ryan, co-founder of the LNG Export Working Group, is the lead Democratic cosponsor of H.R. 6. Ryan supports LNG exports as a way to incentivize further investment in Ohio’s shale gas resources, increase natural gas use as an alternative to dirtier fossil fuels, and provide an alternative supply to our allies in Central Europe who are largely beholden to Russia. As it stands now, the Department of Energy (DOE) will not make a decision on an application until a company has received their necessary environmental and construction permits from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). H.R. 6 ensures that applicants receive an answer from the Department of Energy within 30 days of receiving their FERC approval. Enactment of this bill will give these companies the certainty that, should they get through the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) approval process and pass environmental reviews, they won’t have an additional arbitrary determination of “public interest” weighing over them and discouraging potential investors or customers. Should the approved facilities move forward with exporting Liquefied Natural Gas, the construction and operation of those facilities will directly create thousands of jobs, with many more supply chain and development jobs created in regions like the 13th Congressional District. “I am pleased to have led the charge on the Democratic side, and that the Department of Energy followed by taking the initiative to streamline the application process. This legislation will complement their recent policy change to ensure that we can bring more export facilities online as soon as possible. Currently our nation is falling behind on the opportunity to sell our natural gas to some of the most critical overseas markets. This has enabled our international competitors to continue to reap profits – profits that we can and should be to earning right here in the United States. LNG production and exporting will bring economic growth and an influx of jobs to our nation and the state of Ohio. I am happy that the House passed this legislation and we are finally able to move forward with this process,” said Congressman Ryan. It should be noted that H.R. 6 does not in any way change the FERC process or allow in any way for facilities to bypass an environmental impact study under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). Allowing more American facilities to export LNG will incentivize further development and investment throughout the country, as well as facilitate increased utilization here through the subsequent increase in natural gas-related infrastructure, not to mention the billions of investment required to build the export terminals. The construction of more export facilities has the potential to create between 70,000 and 140,000 new American jobs.
06.25.2014	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today in response to policy changes and new programs developed by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) in order to support beginning farmers and ranchers: I applaud the USDA’s recognition of the need for our young people to pursue careers in farming and ranching. With the average age of an American farmer being 58 and rising, it is critical that we make these policy changes and create new programs to ensure that the American farm does not die with this generation. There are new farmers and ranchers who wish to pursue these types of careers, but often times it is difficult, expensive and time-consuming for individuals to get up and running. These changes are a major step in the right direction towards easing the burdens of a new farmer or rancher and creating incentives for individuals to get their new farming business off the ground. It is crucial that we do everything in our power to ensure that American farming and ranching continue to thrive. ### USDA Announces New Support for Beginning Farmers and Ranchers Department Implementing New Farm Bill Programs, Unveiling New Centralized Online Resource to Support Next Generation of Farmers DAVIS, Calif., June 23, 2014 – U.S. Agriculture Deputy Secretary Krysta Harden today announced the implementation of new Farm Bill measures and other policy changes to improve the financial security of new and beginning farmers and ranchers. Harden also unveiled www.USDA.gov/newfarmers, a new website that will provide a centralized, one-stop resource where beginning farmers and ranchers can explore the variety of USDA initiatives designed to help them succeed. “New and beginning farmers are the future of American agriculture,” Said Deputy Secretary Harden. “The average age of an American farmer is 58 and rising, so we must help new farmers get started if America is going to continue feeding the world and maintain a strong agriculture economy. The new policies announced today will help give beginning farmers the financial security they need to succeed. Our new online tool will provide one-stop shopping for beginning farmers to learn more about accessing USDA services that can help their operations thrive.” USDA’s www.usda.gov/newfarmers has in depth information for new farmers and ranchers, including: how to increase access to land and capital; build new market opportunities; participate in conservation opportunities; select and use the right risk management tools; and access USDA education, and technical support programs. These issues have been identified as top priorities i by new farmers. The website will also feature instructive case studies about beginning farmers who have successfully utilized USDA resources to start or expand their business operations. Today’s policy announcements in support of beginning farmers and ranchers include: Waiving service fees for new and beginning farmers or ranchers to enroll in the Non-Insured Crop Disaster Assistance Program (NAP) for the 2014 crop year. NAP provides risk management tools to farmers who grow crops for which there is no crop insurance product. Under this waiver, announced via an official notice to Farm Service Agency offices, farmers and ranchers whom already enrolled in NAP for the 2014 crop year are eligible for a service fee refund. Eliminating payment reductions under the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP ) for new and beginning farmers which will allow routine, prescribed, and emergency grazing outside the primary nesting season on enrolled land consistent with approved conservation plans. Previously, farmers and ranchers grazing on CRP land were subject to a reduction in CRP payments of up to 25 percent. Waiving these reductions for new and beginning farmers will provide extra financial support during times of emergency like drought and other natural disasters. Increasing payment rates to beginning farmers and ranchers under Emergency Assistance for Livestock, Honeybees and Farm-Raised Fish Program (ELAP). Under this provision, beginning and farmers can claim up 90 percent of losses for lost livestock, such as bees, under ELAP. This is a fifty percent increase over previously available payment amounts to new and beginning farmers. In the near future, USDA will also announce additional crop insurance program changes for beginning farmers and ranchers – including discounted premiums, waiver of administrative fees, and other benefits. These policy announcements are made possible through the 2014 Farm Bill, which builds on historic economic gains in rural America over the past five years, while achieving meaningful reform and billions of dollars in savings for the taxpayer. Since enactment, USDA has made significant progress to implement each provision of this critical legislation, including providing disaster relief to farmers and ranchers; strengthening risk management tools; expanding access to rural credit; funding critical research; establishing innovative public-private conservation partnerships; developing new markets for rural-made products; and investing in infrastructure, housing and community facilities to help improve quality of life in rural America. For more information, visit www.usda.gov/farmbill. The Deputy Secretary made these announcements at the inaugural meeting of the reconvened Beginning Farmer and Rancher Advisory Committee held at the University of California Davis, California. This Advisory Committee, composed of 20 members, including Extension agents, lenders, farmers, ranchers and academics will meet through 2015 to learn, discuss, and formulate recommendations to USDA on how to support new and beginning farmers. Additional information about USDA actions in support of beginning farmers and ranchers is available here
06.23.2014	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan (D – OH) and Congressman Steve Stivers (R – OH) today introduced the Speeding Access to Already Approved Pharmaceuticals Act of 2014. The bill requires the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to expedite the review of pharmaceuticals that are approved by the European Union (EU). “Unfortunately, the United States FDA’s red tape causes delays of up to several years in approval for life-saving and life-changing medical treatments,” Stivers said. “These delays result in unnecessary death and suffering of American patients. This bill will help speed U.S. approval of drugs and medical devices deemed safe and effective by European Authorities. It ensures the safety of these drugs while saving lives and improving the quality of life for millions of Americans who need cutting-edge medical treatments.” Specifically, the legislation requires the FDA Commissioner to facilitate the development and expedite the review of a drug within 90 days of the European Union approving a pharmaceutical. “There are too many examples around the country of illness outbreaks that can be successfully treated with medications that have been approved by the EU and are delayed in the FDA approval process,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “This legislation is a step in the right direction in improving access to safe and properly tested medication for the millions of Americans who are in need.” Currently it can take more than a decade for a product to get approved by the FDA. For example since 2002, eight companies have submitted new and innovative ingredients for sunscreen, but all are still languishing in the FDA’s approval process. There are only three FDA-approved sunscreen ingredients available in the U.S which effectively guard against the sun’s UVA rays. Europe, on the other hand, has approved seven sunscreen ingredients that help protect against these harmful UVA rays.
06.19.2014	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan announces $1.43 Million in National Science Foundation research grants to be awarded to Kent State University. “Kent State has an exceptional academic and research track record that is only further proven by these well-deserved grant announcements,” said Congressman Ryan. “Advancements in scientific research and education is crucial for our nation to stay competitive and remain a world leader; and I am pleased that these federal investments are being made right here in our backyard.” Kent State University has received three federal grant awards through the National Science Foundation and expire in 2017. Structure of the Nucleon and Few-Body Nuclear Systems with Electron Scattering Project received $570,000.00 Oxytocin and the Ontogeny of Aggressive Behavior Project received $400,000.00 Structure and Properties of the Twist-Bend Nematic Phase Project received $460,000.00
06.17.2014	Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement: "Andrea and I are overjoyed to announce the birth of our son, Brady Zetts Ryan; born on June 12 at 8:24pm. He is 6lbs 12oz and measuring 19 3/4 inches. We are thankful that Brady and Andrea are both doing very well. Mason and Bella are very excited to have a new little brother. "We would like to thank our mid-wife, as well as all the doctors and nurses for their excellent care and kind words. "We look forward to Brady’s arrival at home very soon as we all enter a new and exciting phase in our lives."
06.12.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan announced $10 million in funding to create an additive manufacturing innovation research program based at Wright Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio. The program will equip the United States Air Force with the technology and expertise to use 3D printing and other emerging manufacturing techniques to fabricate low-volume replacement parts for weapons systems at a lower cost than can be achieved through current defense procurement processes. Ohio is a leader in the field of additive manufacturing with Youngstown State University and the University of Dayton Research Institute already working together on ways to increase the use of additive manufacturing in the military. Northeast Ohio is also home to America Makes (formerly known as the National Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute). “I am proud to be able to assist in the funding of this important research that will ultimately help to grow high-paying manufacturing jobs in Ohio and across the United States while reducing costs for the Department of Defense. Additive manufacturing is transforming every sector of our national economy and this program further positions Ohio, which already has a successful additive manufacturing hub in Youngstown, as a leader in these arena,” said Congressman Ryan. Congressman Ryan, a member of the House Defense Subcommittee on Appropriations was able to obtain $10 million for the program in the Fiscal Year 2015 Defense Appropriations Bill, which passed the House Appropriations Committee on Tuesday. The FY 2015 Defense Appropriations Bill must still be passed by the House, Senate and signed by the President.
06.12.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan voted yesterday in favor of the Fiscal Year 2015 House Subcommittee on Defense Appropriations Bill which passed the full House Appropriations Committee on a bipartisan vote. This legislation provides $490.7 billion in discretionary funds, $4.1 billion above the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. The House Defense Appropriations Bill now moves forward for a final vote in the House of Representatives. “I am encouraged that this legislation addresses the military mental health and suicide epidemic by funding suicide prevention efforts at $39 million and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) and Psychological Health Research at $125 million. I am also proud that this legislation reflects our nation’s commitment to the selfless and steadfast service of our military personnel by raising their pay by 1.8 percent. Further, this legislation takes appropriate steps to fully fund Sexual Assault Prevention and Response programs at $275 million,” said Congressman Ryan.
06.04.2014	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to reports that the White House is considering Cleveland Clinic Chief Executive Dr. Delos “Toby” Cosgrove to be nominated as Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs: “Our veterans deserve the very best, and when it comes to health care, nothing says the best like the Cleveland Clinic. I am certain that Dr. Cosgrove would be an outstanding choice to lead the VA, and I urge President Obama to seriously consider him for the position. Although we would hate to lose him in Cleveland, he would be a perfect fit for this job. “Dr. Cosgrove is a decorated Vietnam veteran, a distinguished heart surgeon and a highly effective manager of a large health care network. I could not think of a more qualified candidate to overhaul the VA and ensure that our veterans receive the quality care they need and deserve. During his ten years at the helm of the world renowned Cleveland Clinic, Dr. Cosgrove has proven that he has the leadership and organizational skills that we need to begin to rebuild trust with the veterans of America and their families.”
06.03.2014	Warren, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today in response to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) proposal to cut carbon emissions across the United States: “I am encouraged that the Obama Administration and the EPA have taken these critical steps toward combating global warming and climate change. The debate on this issue is over, 97% of climate scientists agree that climate-warming trends are due to human activities. It is now our responsibility to address these issues so that we do not saddle our children with an environment that is irreversibly damaged. “This proposal would call for a 30% reduction of U.S. power plants’ carbon pollution from 2005 levels by 2030. This is a reasonable goal. This proposed rule does not require specific actions from individual power plants, but rather is allowing a comprehensive approach that states can tailor to their economies depending on where they get a majority of their electricity. Not only are these regulations beneficial to the environment, estimates also show that they will result in $55 to $95 billion economic benefits over the proposal’s lifetime. “The high levels of pollution we see today directly affect the health of millions of Americans; estimates show that this proposal will prevent 2,700 to 6,600 premature deaths and 140,000 asthma attacks. There is no reason not to act now and work to prevent these harmful public health conditions from occurring.”
05.30.2014	Washington, DC -- Yesterday, the Department of Energy announced their intention to revise the process for reviewing facilities that have applied to export Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) to non-Free Trade Agreement (FTA) countries. Under DOE’s current process, they review and assess applications based on chronological order in which they were submitted, and then grant those they deem worthy a “conditional authorization.” Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to the Department’s policy change: “I am pleased that the Department of Energy has decided to streamline the application process for those interested in exporting natural gas. This will allow the Department to be more efficient in moving projects forward and working through the backlog of applications. “The new DOE policy will speed up the process of approving applications so that we don’t lose out while nations buy natural gas from our international competitors. This will help spur investment and job creation in manufacturing and energy industries in Ohio and across the nation. It also helps us to better aid our allies in Central Europe and Asia by giving them an alternative source for natural gas and at the same time diminishing their reliance on Russian energy.” Last year, Congressman Ryan cosponsored an amendment to the Energy and Water Appropriations bill asking the Department to speed up the LNG export approval process and increase transparency. According to the DOE release detailing the new policy: “…the Department intends to make final public interest determinations only after a project has completed the NEPA process, instead of issuing conditional authorizations. By removing the intermediate step of conditional decisions and setting the order of DOE decision-making based on readiness for final action, DOE will prioritize resources on the more commercially advanced projects.”
05.30.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following President Obama’s acceptance of Veterans Affairs Secretary Shinseki’s resignation: "I applaud President Obama’s decision to accept Secretary Shinseki’s resignation. Secretary Shinseki has had a long record of admirable service to our nation, but ultimately he had to take responsibility for the dismal shape of the VA health system. "With 22 veterans taking their own lives each and every day – approximately one every hour – it is imperative that every possible action is taken to prevent these deaths from continuing to occur. There must be accountability when taking care of our veterans. I believe this change in leadership is a crucial step towards righting the egregious incompetence and outright corruption that we have seen in recent years. This decision gives the VA health system the chance to begin rebuilding trust with the veterans of America and their families."
05.30.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to Governor Kasich signing legislation into law to freeze and roll back Ohio’s renewable energy and energy efficiency standards: I am deeply disappointed that Governor Kasich is set to make Ohio the first state in America to roll back standards that reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and make us more energy efficient. This decision lacks the vision Ohio needs and it will unfortunately mark Ohio as a backward looking state when it comes to the rapidly growing renewable energy industry. With this move Governor Kasich is rejecting decades of research proving that we must increase our development and use of renewables. These standards were passed with almost unanimous consent seven years ago and they have helped make Ohio a leader in green jobs, such as wind and solar energy manufacturing. Analysts have found that these standards have saved Ohioans over $1 billion since they have been implemented. These standards were a common sense solution to an issue that we face as Ohioans and Americans, but instead Governor Kasich has decided to turn his back on the people of Ohio and bend to the will of special interest groups.
05.28.2014	Washington, DC -- Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement today in response to the VA Office of Inspector General Report on Patient Wait Times: “Every day 22 veterans are taking their own lives--approximately one every hour. Each and every moment is a precious opportunity to try to prevent this from happening. Instead, the widespread manipulation of the VA’s scheduling system has caused tragedy by failing to get veterans the treatments they deserve. "There must be accountability when taking care of our veterans. The Inspector General’s report shows the gross incompetence of the VA health system going back as far as 2005. The problems are wide ranging and they are troubling in their prevalence. These deficiencies, especially regarding wait times, are clearly systemic. It is unacceptable that so many of those responsible are still at their jobs, while our veterans who have sacrificed so much are still being made to wait. “Secretary Shinseki has a long record of admirable service to our nation, but ultimately he must take responsibility for the dismal shape of our VA health system. He should immediately resign his post. Others who tolerated these deficiencies should also be forced out of their positions. Secretary Shinseki’s resignation will provide an opportunity to bring in a new leadership team to root out the problems and right this ship so the VA can begin to rebuild trust with the veterans of America and their families.” ###
05.27.2014	Each year on Memorial Day we remember and pay tribute to the brave men and women who have gave their lives in the service our nation. Our democracy is the result of these brave Americans’ selfless dedication to liberty and equality. So as we spend time with friends and family at backyard barbeques, ballgames and parades let us also reflect upon the sacrifices our veterans made to defend and preserve the enduring freedoms enjoyed across our nation every day. Even in difficult times, we remember that through their sacrifice America remains strong and continues to be a beacon of hope.
05.22.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan voted in favor of the Fiscal Year 2015 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which included an amendment that incorporated the Medical Evaluation Parity for Service Members Act (MEPS Act), legislation I co-sponsored with Congressman Glenn Thompson (R-Pennsylvania). This amendment, which had the support of 40 military and veteran service organizations and mental health advocacy groups, will require a mental health assessment for all new military recruits. The NDAA bill ensures that our military can responsibly and efficiently meets the risks and challenges of the current national security environment. [Congressman Tim Ryan delivering remarks on the importance of the MEPS Act’s inclusion in the NDAA] “I am pleased that the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act, and I am especially proud that this legislation takes the appropriate steps to strengthen sexual assault provisions and provide mental health screenings for our new military recruits,” said Congressman Ryan. The overall defense authorization bill is far from perfect, but it does provide a much-needed 1.8 percent pay increase for military personnel and important provisions to prevent sexual assaults in the military. Further, this legislation makes great strides to provide our nation’s men and women in uniform with the tools they need, as well as the benefits and support that they have earned and deserve, including the establishment of a standard method to collect, report, and assess suicide data.” Numerous sexual assault provisions are reinforced through the NDAA, requiring the Pentagon to brief the committee on the implementation them. Provisions included a requirement of military service secretaries to make an assessment of the handling of sexual assault cases as part of commanding officers’ performance evaluations. This legislation also directs the Pentagon’s Inspector General to review the cases of all members of the Armed Forces who were discharged after making unrestricted reports of sexual assault since January 1, 2002 to determine the legitimacy of the reports.
05.14.2014	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan is announcing today that the Niles and Warren Fire Departments have been awarded Operations and Safety grants through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Department of Homeland Security. The Niles Fire Department received $157,325.00 and the Warren Fire Department received $60,948.00.“Federal investments are crucial to our first responders and I will always give my support to these types of grants" said Congressman Ryan. “This money will enhance fire and emergency services and provide needed safety equipment to both departments. I congratulate Niles Fire Chief Gary Brown and Warren Fire Chief Ken Nussle for their hard work in obtaining these grants ” The goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and emergency medical service organizations. Operations and Safety grants can be used for professional training, wellness and fitness programs equipment, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critical equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. For more information, visit the program’s website.
05.14.2014	Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to the Senate confirmation of former Youngstown Mayor Jay Williams as Assistant Secretary for Economic Development at the Department of Commerce: “I am pleased that today the United States Senate confirmed my friend Jay Williams as Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development. Over the years, I have been proud to work with Mr. Williams on economic development issues both at the local and federal level. His knowledge and work ethic will serve him and our nation well as he leads the Economic Development Agency. “President Obama could not have chosen a better or more qualified person to take over the immense responsibility that comes with this job. Youngstown’s recent trajectory with downtown redevelopment, the building of the Vallourec Star mill, and numerous other projects speak to the leadership of Jay Williams when he served as Mayor of Youngstown. I know he will continue to be a great public servant and I look forward to continuing to work closely with him to bring federal resources back to northeastern Ohio.”
05.14.2014	Washington, D.C. - Last week Congressman Tim Ryan voted in support of the American Research and Competitiveness Act of 2014, a bill that would make the research and development tax credit, which expired at the end of 2013, permanent. The research this bill supports includes both basic and energy research, and changes the research credit to a three-year rolling average, giving researchers the time they need to maximize effectiveness and change. Enacting this bill is another step toward creating a healthier business climate and promoting economic growth.“This tax credit is an important tool in helping businesses continue the research and innovation that manufacturing depends on,” said Congressman Ryan. “However, I am disappointed that my Republican colleagues, who demand offsets for unemployment compensation and just about everything else, chose not to pay for this tax cut. This is fiscally irresponsible.” The Biotechnology Industry Organization, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers voiced their support for the Research and Competitiveness Act. This bill supports private sector funding for medical discoveries, supporting innovation in the United States, and providing millions of current and future American jobs.
05.09.2014	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement today in response to Jim Tressel being named the 9th President of Youngstown State University: “This is a great day for The Mahoning Valley and northeast Ohio. I am happy to congratulate Jim Tressel on his selection as President of Youngstown State University. He is the right leader to guide YSU through the challenging times ahead. I couldn’t be more proud of the YSU Board of Trustees for their leadership. They have conducted themselves with professionalism, integrity and the boldness that this situation required. “This was a community-wide effort in which Democrats and Republicans, business and labor came together to change the trajectory of our communities future. This is another chapter in how, by coming together, we are writing the great comeback story of the Mahoning Valley. “This is a new beginning for our university; a time for revitalization and renewal at Youngstown State and the broader community. The challenges are many, but with our collective intellect, creativity and determination, we will meet these challenges and transform our region. “Make no mistake, the biggest beneficiary of this decision is the student body at YSU. They will reap the benefits of President Tressel's leadership both on campus and with increased opportunities in the local economy. “Finally, to the Mahoning Valley diaspora, now that Coach Tress has chosen to return it should signal to you that this is a vibrant and exciting place to be. It is a much different community than the one you left. This is truly an exciting time, but there is still more to do—and we need everyone to be involved. Join us.”
05.09.2014	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to the University of Akron’s selection of their next President: I am happy to extend my congratulations to Dr. Scott L. Scarborough for being selected as the next President of the University of Akron. Dr. Scarborough is a proven and effective leader who will ensure that Akron continues to meet the high standards they have always been known for and help them achieve new heights of academic excellence. The experience he earned as Provost and Executive Vice President of The University of Toledo will not only be beneficial towards the success of the University but also the City of Akron. His time at the University of Toledo has introduced him to the high caliber educators, staff and students found here in Ohio and I look forward to working with him to continue to set the bar for higher educational institutions across the nation. I have every confidence that Dr. Scarborough has the skills and knowledge necessary to be a dynamic and transformative leader here at the University of Akron.
05.09.2014	Warren, OH - Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to the passing of longtime friend Albert Covelli:"I am deeply saddened to learn of the passing of my friend Mr. Albert Covelli, and I extend my condolences to his wife and children and grandchildren. Albert Covelli was a pillar in this community—one of the giants of the City of Warren, and a great and generous benefactor of John F. Kennedy High School and his beloved church, Blessed Sacrament Parish. Mr. Covelli was involved in many other worthy endeavors known by few and for which he sought no credit. “Mr. Covelli lived the American dream and is a reminder that one man can make a difference. He started his business from scratch and built an empire. He is an example to the rest of us that hard work and determination can change a community for the better.”
05.09.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Ryan announced today successful federal grant approvals awarded to The Ohio State University and the Babcock and Wilcox Company Power Generation Group in the amount of $2.5 million from the U.S. Department of Energy. The award to OSU and Babcock & Wilcox for Phase 2 development of Iron-based coal direct chemical looping (CDCL) technology will be critical to their research in securing a future for clean coal in our nation. This grant will hopefully lead to major breakthroughs not only for our country’s prosperity, but also for the environment.“This funding not only keeps state of the art research in our district, but also holds promising leads for our nation’s energy future,” said Congressman Ryan. “While we still have to rely on fossil fuels for our nation’s energy needs, it is imperative to remember that the future of energy requires constant innovation and investment in renewable energy technologies. CDCL research will play a major role in assuring that coal has a place in that future." This grant is intended to further CDCL technology that may help to attain a future for clean coal and domestic energy production. Not only could clean coal help drive down the price of energy across the country, but it also assures that families will be able to keep or obtain jobs that pay well. According to B&W PPG, “CDCL technology was developed and successfully tested at bench scale at OSU’s labs in Columbus, Ohio. B&W PGG is leading the commercial design effort for this novel technology, and research and testing are ongoing at the B&W Research Center in Barberton, Ohio and at OSU’s labs.”
05.09.2014	Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today in response to Thomas Steel Strip in Warren successfully petitioning the United States International Trade Commission (USITC) to impose antidumping penalties on steel imports from Japan: “Today’s affirmative ruling in favor of Thomas Steel Strip is another example of tough measures being taken by the Obama Administration to protect our local industries against the blatantly unfair trade practices that continue to undermine jobs and profits in Ohio and across the nation. I’m proud to have had the opportunity to submit testimony in this case, and I’m pleased that the ITC sided on behalf of my constituent company and its workers.” Congressman Ryan’s testimony can be found in text format below or in PDF format here. Testimony of Congressman Tim Ryan Before the United States International Trade Commission Hearing on Diffusion Annealed Nickel Plated Steel from Japan April 1, 2014 I would like to thank the members of the U.S. International Trade Commission for the opportunity to submit this testimony as you consider the petition filed by Thomas Steel Strip Corporation (TSS) for antidumping duties on unfairly traded imports of diffusion annealed nickel plate from Japan. Let me begin by telling you how valuable a company like TSS is, not only to my district, but to our economy as a whole. TSS currently employs over 260 people in Warren, Ohio, represented by the United Steelworkers of America, Local 3523. These jobs are helping to support the economic growth of the Mahoning Valley in northeastern Ohio. By investing in Ohio, TSS has placed its faith in the fact that we can provide the best workers to create a quality product that will be competitive with any other product in the marketplace. A product that is made in the USA, and that consumers want to buy. The nickel plate that TSS manufactures is a highly specialized product. It is used to make alkaline batteries and certain automotive fuel lines, and is only produced in a few countries. It is important to note that TSS is the only remaining domestic producer of nickel plate, and as such is focused on achieving sustainable business returns in order to provide continuing employment for its workforce. This is a challenge that grows increasingly difficult as the playing field is tilted in favor of Japan. Because of the low prices offered by imports from Japan – prices, it should be made clear, that are lower than those in Japan’s own market – TSS has lost substantial sales volume to dumped imports. This includes a large share of the AA battery market, which comprises about sixty percent of all alkaline battery sales in the United States. This loss of business has not come about through any fault of TSS, which is producing a high quality product and selling it on the market at a fair price. Rather, the loss of business is a result of unfairly traded imports that are taking market share from TSS. In the wake of these unfairly traded imports, TSS has been forced to reduce its prices in order to remain competitive. It has also lost large sales volumes because it cannot offer prices that can compete with those from Japan. Only a decade ago, TSS was the primary supplier of nickel plate to customers such as Duracell, Energizer and Rayovac (a brand name of Spectrum Brands). Today, Japan has seized that market share with prices so low that TSS cannot match them without severe economic consequences. Nickel plate is of critical importance for TSS’s business model, and accounts for approximately three-quarters of its annual sales revenue. It cannot reduce the price of its nickel plate further if it wishes to remain economically viable, nor should it have to in the face of unfair competition. Companies like TSS, which remain committed to manufacturing their products in America with the help of our talented and dedicated work force, deserve better than to be injured by imports that are not sold at a fair price. This Commission has preliminarily found that the U.S. industry has been materially injured, and the affirmative finding of dumping in the Department of Commerce’s preliminary determination yielded extremely high dumping margins. This is an industry that is clearly being hurt. It is an industry that should be competitive, that should be an industry that we can point to as an American success story, but faces an uphill battle in the presence of unfairly priced imports. TSS has chosen to invest in America, but that investment will not pay off unless it can compete in an environment that has fair and competitive pricing. TSS wants only one thing, and that is the opportunity to compete against fairly traded imports. This is exactly the situation for which our trade remedy laws were created. Without these laws, companies like TSS, and its workers, are at the mercy of unfairly traded goods with which they cannot compete. This is disastrous not only for companies like TSS, but for the American economy. I know that you will consider these issues and the application of the trade remedy laws carefully as you examine this case. Thank you again for the opportunity to provide these comments for the record.
05.09.2014	Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today in response to General Motors investment of $50 Million into the Lordstown, Ohio Plant for the next-generation Chevrolet Cruze: “I am thrilled that General Motors has decided to make this massive investment and double-down on their commitment to build the next-generation Cruze right here in Northeast Ohio for years to come. This investment is a testament to the cutting edge, innovative work done in Lordstown day in and day out. The Lordstown Plant has turned out more than 15 million vehicles since it first opened its doors and this investment insures that American auto manufacturing will continue to thrive right here in our backyard.”
05.09.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan today issued the following statement in response to Senate Republicans blocking consideration of legislation that would raise the minimum wage from $7.25 to $10.10 per hour over the next three years: "Today, Republicans in the Senate had the opportunity to create 85,000 full-time jobs across the nation, including 4,000 jobs in Ohio, but chose otherwise. Once again, Republicans have blocked legislation to raise the minimum wage for 25 million hard-working Americans, to pull millions of full-time workers out of poverty, and provide a $1.5 billion economic boom in Ohio and $22 billion nation-wide. "I don’t know about my Republican colleagues, but personally I don’t believe any full-time worker in the United States should be forced to live in poverty by no fault of their own—and for that reason, I will continue to fight tirelessly for a minimum wage that is livable and representative of the hard work accomplished by American employees every day. The American economy should work for everyone, which means that a full-time job should give families the ability to have adequate health insurance, send children to quality schools, put food on the table and a roof over their heads. We are talking about an additional $2.85 more per hour. Is that really too much to ask? "My Republican colleagues need to act now and give the American people the raise they deserve."
05.09.2014	Washington, DC – U.S. Repsresentatives Tim Ryan (OH-13) Susan Davis (CA-53) introduced legislation today to help schools include social and emotional learning (SEL). The Supporting Emotional Learning (SEL) Act (H.R. 4509) would support teacher training in SEL to help young people better handle societal issues thus boosting their academic potential. Students receiving social and emotional education do better on tests, show greater pro-social behaviors, and less emotional stress. “I am proud to give my full support to the Supporting Emotional Learning Act,” said Congressman Ryan. “I have seen firsthand what teaching social and emotional learning can do for students and their classrooms in Ohio and across the nation. The skills these types of programs teach are essential for the foundation of what our young people need in order to be successful in school and throughout their lives. Research has confirmed that social and emotional learning is what we need in our schools and this legislation is a great step towards ensuring that every teacher has the proper techniques and resources needed to create a safe and secure school environment.” “Research shows us that when we impart social and emotional skills to our children, they thrive both academically and socially,” said Davis, a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Test scores improve, relationships improve, and school culture improves. We owe it to our students to invest in ways to best teach these important social and emotional skills.” Along with adding SEL training for teachers, H.R. 4509 would also prioritize SEL by identifying it as a topic for educational research and turning it into best practices for the classroom. The benefits of SEL reach far beyond the classroom and help prepare students for future roles as citizens, employees, managers, parents, volunteers, and entrepreneurs. In an increasingly competitive world, there is a need to equip students with the skills necessary to be knowledgeable, responsible, and caring adults. The SEL Act has been endorsed by the Collaborative for Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning (CASEL).
04.25.2014	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan announces $1,418,229.00 to be awarded to Portage Private Industry Council, Inc. in Ravenna, Ohio. “I couldn’t be more pleased that these funds will be going to those children most in need in Portage County,” said Congressman Ryan. “The Head Start program provides crucial social services that our children rely on, including nutrition and wellness programs for low-income children. These funds will continue essential services that enhance cognitive, social and emotional development for Portage County children. Head Start programs are vital to our community and nation’s most vulnerable children and I am happy that these funds going to such a worthy cause.” This grant is part of the Head Start: Full Year Part Day Handicapped Training and Technical Assistance program though the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). These funds are to fund the program from February 1, 2014 through January 31, 2015.
04.24.2014	WINDHAM, OH — Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) and Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) honored Mahoning Valley veteran, Robert Towles, with the Distinguished Service Cross—the U.S. Army’s second highest military honor. Ryan and Brown recognize Towles for his heroism during the Vietnam War. Despite being wounded during an ambush that left 155 in his company dead and 128 wounded, Towles saved the lives of several men when he singlehandedly attacked and disabled an enemy machine gun position, allowing his wounded comrades to escape. “Mr. Towles is a hero who exemplified true bravery, honor, and sacrifice all while sustaining a combat wound,” said Brown, a senior member of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee. “His service to our nation promoted peace and democracy, and his actions saved the lives of his fellow soldiers. It is for these reasons that Mr. Towles deserves our gratitude, respect, and the Distinguished Service Cross.” “It is my honor to play a part in awarding Mr. Towles the Distinguished Service Cross,” said Ryan, a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense. “This recognition is well deserved and long overdue. I commend him once again for his life-saving heroic service to our country.” Towles is a 2001 inductee of the Ohio Military Hall of Fame and the first Vietnam veteran elected National Commander of the Combat Infantrymen’s Association. He earned the Distinguished Service Cross for his actions on November 17, 1965. On that day, Army Specialist Towles was seriously wounded by shrapnel when his unit of 400 men was ambushed by a larger force, leaving 155 allied soldiers dead, and 128 wounded. Under heavy fire, Towles disregarded his own safety and injuries to attack—and disable—an enemy’s machine gun position. This led the enemy to temporarily withdrawal, enabling Towles’ company to evacuate with many of its wounded members. Towles then led a group of soldiers in returning to dangerous territory to ward off the enemy while the remaining wounded soldiers evacuated. Towles was initially awarded the Bronze Star for Valor but was later determined to be eligible for the Distinguished Service Cross. In December 2013, language introduced by Ryan that honored Towles was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives as a part of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Brown and Ryan continue to fight for Northeast Ohio veterans and to ensure our service men and women have the resources they need to defend the United States and preserve our peace and democracy. Brown is the only Ohio Senator to serve a full term on the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee and is Co-Chair of the Senate Air Force Caucus. He also is an original cosponsor of the VOW to Hire Heroes Law, which offers job retraining assistance to veterans between 35 and 60 years of age. Ryan serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense and is Co-Chair of the Military Mental Health Caucus. He also introduced the Veterans and Armed Forces Health Promotion Act, which takes steps to improve the quality of health care provided to wounded warriors by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and the Department of Defense (DoD). Ryan first began working to upgrade Mr. Towles’s Bronze Star for Valor to a Distinguished Service Cross in 2005. ### Michael Zetts Press Secretary Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13) Office: 202.225.5261 Mobile: 330.398.2569
04.11.2014	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement today after voting against the Paul Ryan Republican budget: “Today I voted against the Paul Ryan Republican budget which is a clear attack on the middle class, women, students, disadvantaged families, and the elderly. The Paul Ryan budget devastates education funding, pushing an estimated 170,000 vulnerable children out of Head Start, and eliminating $90 billion in mandatory Pell grant funding that is critical for the future of our youth. “This budget also fails the most disadvantaged among us, including 200,000 women and children who would be dropped from the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC) in 2016. At the same time, this budget raises taxes on middle class families with children by more than $2,000 to pay for tax breaks for millionaires. Seniors on fixed incomes would see the end of the Medicare guarantee and be forced to pay more for preventive services and prescription drugs. “My fellow Democrats and I introduced a budget alternative that would create jobs, build new ladders of opportunity, and generate an economy that works for everyone. Our Democratic proposal stands in stark contrast with the broken priorities of the Republican budget. Democrats have not forgotten that emergency unemployment insurance has expired for over two million Americans still struggling to find work and I call on my Republican colleagues to bring a bill to the floor that will ease their burden. “This Republican budget represents values that are completely out of touch with the needs of the American people. Attempting to reduce the deficit in this fashion is not only irresponsible, but dangerous to our economic recovery. The American people expect and deserve better.”
04.08.2014	Washington, D.C. - Congressmen Tim Ryan (D-OH), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), and Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ) today introduced the Expansion of Nutrition’s Role in Curricula and Healthcare (ENRICH) Act, which will create a grant program for U.S. Medical Schools and Osteopathic Colleges to create an integrated nutrition curriculum program. This three-year grant program will allow U.S. Medical Schools and Osteopathic Colleges to establish or expand nutrition curriculum in order to highlight the role that nutrition and diet play in prevention and management of obesity and cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and cancer. Healthcare spending in the United States continues to rise around the nation. Expenditures in the United States on healthcare surpassed $2.3 trillion in 2008, with costs from chronic disease treatment accounting for over 75 percent of national health costs. Raising awareness and increasing nutrition education can help improve many American’s diets and help reduce the risks of these chronic diseases.“An understanding of proper nutrition is central throughout our lives and should be a necessity for future physicians to learn during any medical education,” said Congressman Ryan. “With US healthcare expenditures continuing to rise to unprecedented levels, we must do everything in our power to improve Americans’ diets. We need to raise awareness and reduce our risk of chronic diseases like heart disease, cancer, stroke and diabetes that are plaguing our nation and are directly connected with diet and lifestyle choices." “Doctors and nurses want to know more about how nutrition plays a role in health care, and we should make that information available to them,” Congressman Grijalva said. “It’s as simple as that. There’s no reason to limit medical education to the treatment of symptoms. There’s a lot we can do to prevent disease and injury by making good choices, and that becomes easier as the medical community shares more information with the public. I’m proud to support this uncontroversial bill and hope to see it get a vote without any unnecessary delays.”“Nutrition is the most important part of medical treatment for diabetes, heart disease, hypertension, and many other conditions,” says Neal Barnard, M.D., an adjunct professor of medicine at the George Washington University and president of the nonprofit Physicians Committee. “But most doctors actually receive little or no education in nutrition and simply don’t understand the crucial link between diet and disease.” The ENRICH Act has been endorsed by the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, the Association of American Medical Colleges, and American Society of Nutrition.
04.04.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today in response to Judge Timothy Black’s announcement that he will strike down Ohio’s ban of same-sex marriage recognition: I applaud Judge Black’s decision to strike down Ohio’s ban on the recognition of same-sex marriages. No man or women should be denied that recognition solely because of who or where they choose to be married. When I travel with my wife, our marriage is recognized no matter what state we are visiting. There is no reason such recognition should not be true for any Ohioan who chooses — or is forced due to Ohio’s discriminatory LGBT laws – to wed outside our state. This court decision is a major step towards equality in Ohio, but we still have a long way to go. Every Ohioan and American deserves to be treated equally, regardless of their sexual orientation. If we want this nation to continue to grow and prosper then we must welcome all our sons and daughters with open arms. Ohio and the rest of our nation should be a place where any American, no matter who they love, is afforded full and unequivocal marriage equality. I will continue to stand beside our all those fighting for equal rights and benefits under the law.
04.04.2014	Congressman Tim Ryan today issued the following response to the Senate Finance Committee passage of an amendment extending the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC): “I commend the Senate Finance Committee’s vote, which is important not only to many Delphi Salaried Retirees of my District, but many others across the country. We need to help those who have lost pensions and benefits and make sure they can afford adequate health care coverage. “ “I have introduced H.R. 2783 in 2013, which will provide continued eligibility for the health care tax credit, and I call upon Speaker Boehner and Chairman Camp to make a strong effort to bring this legislation to the House floor for a vote. I look forward to working closely with Senator Brown, Senator Portman and Congressman Turner on this important issue.”
04.03.2014	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan offered an amendment yesterday evening during the House Budget Committee's Markup of the Paul Ryan Republican Budget resolution. Congressman Ryan’s amendment would have rejected the Republican budget resolution’s elimination of mandatory Pell grant funding. This amendment would have restored the $90 billion that the Republicans irresponsibly cut and give that money back to the American college student. The House Budget Committee rejected this amendment by a party line vote. “The rejection of this amendment shows that House Republicans put special interest tax breaks ahead of the education our children,” said Congressman Ryan. “Pell grants make obtaining a college degree possible for 31,000 Ohio students and 9 million students across the United States this year alone. I understand that we need to balance our nation’s budget, but we should not do so on the backs of our American students trying to better their lives.” To view video of Congressman Ryan's speech click here Congressman Tim Ryan’s amendment offset the increased funding (due to the re-installment of the Pell grant funding) by an equal amount of revenue from reducing or eliminating tax breaks for big oil companies, eliminating corporate loopholes that encourage outsourcing of American jobs, and implementing selected tax reform proposals from the Republican Tax Reform Act of 2014.
04.03.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan today took issue with the most recent version of Paul Ryan’s Republican budget, suggesting to the House Budget Committee that Republican members should be asking the wealthiest in this country to pay a little bit more in taxes in order to balance the budget in 10 years, not simply shifting the burden to the middle and lower class. There is no reason those making hundreds of millions of dollars per year should not be asked to contribute. In order to balance the budget over the next 10 years, the Republican Budget takes health insurance away from over 7 million Americans and it mandates college students to pay more on their loans while they are still in school. “This Republican Budget doesn’t make any sense,” said Congressman Ryan. “We must make investments in our nation’s aging infrastructure. The City of Akron needs a sewer overflow system. Let’s build it now. These types of problem are not going away and waiting only makes these projects more expensive. We need to invest in advanced manufacturing, 3D printing, natural gas exploration and the training necessary to employ our workforce for those jobs. House Republicans have simply presented more of the same failed policies that the American people have time and again rejected.” To view video of Congressman Ryan's speech click here Congressman Ryan also specifically criticized House Republicans for the lack of investment in public-private partnerships. Ryan said they are critical to community reinvestment, and he pointed out the importance of the $440 million dollar investment by Seimen’s Corporation at Youngstown State University, and the America Makes advanced manufacturing hub in downtown Youngstown, Ohio. “It is because of strategic investments by the National Science Foundation, the Department of Defense, the Department of Commerce and the Department of Energy, that Seimen’s and other companies are now looking at Youngstown as a place to do business,” said Congressman Ryan.
04.01.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressmen Tim Ryan and Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (R-PA) today introduced the bipartisan Medical Evaluation Parity for Service Members (MEPS) Act (H.R. 4305). The bill, which has 13 bipartisan cosponsors and the support of a large number of military and mental health advocacy groups, will help the military identify behavioral health issues and improve suicide prevention by instituting a mental health assessment for all incoming military recruits. "Despite increased awareness and expanded efforts to address behavioral health issues in the military, our service branches still face challenges when it comes to early detection and prevention. Issues such as Traumatic Brain Injuries, Post-Traumatic Stress, and suicide remain all too common. While the military performs comprehensive physical and medical evaluations, no similar examination for mental health exists,” stated Rep. Thompson. “The Medical Evaluation Parity for Service Members Act will institute a preliminary mental health assessment at the time recruits are first joining the military. This small but consequential improvement to recruitment evaluations will help address a recognized knowledge gap within the military and ensure our soldiers are both physically and mentally fit to serve.” “I am heartbroken by the staggering number of our veterans who are suffering from PTSD and TBI,” said Congressman Ryan. “Our military makes sure every serviceman and woman is physically fit for duty and this legislation will ensure that they are also mentally fit. It will also ensure that we have a better baseline against which to measure any potential mental harm they may have incurred during their duty. These men and women put their lives on the line every day in the service of our nation, it is our duty to offer everything in our power to guarantee they return home safely, both physically and mentally.” According to a recent Army study nearly one in five Army soldiers enter the service with a psychiatric disorder, and nearly half of all soldiers who tried suicide first attempted it before enlisting. Additionally, the Journal of the American Medical Association found that a large percentage of suicides in the military were individuals who had never been deployed in a combat role. Support for the Medical Evaluation Parity for Service Members (MEPS) Act: • “NGAUS strongly supports the MEPS Act as long overdue in addressing the need to establish a workable baseline to identify the signature mental health injuries of the current wars. Not having a baseline is a neglectful disservice to our military members and veterans who risk their lives for our nation,” stated Peter J. Duffy, Colonel US Army (Ret), Director of Legislation, National Guard Association of the United States (NGAUS). • "The American Psychological Association is pleased to support these efforts to provide mental health assessment and appropriate follow-up for all persons enlisting in or receiving commissions into the U.S. Armed Forces, through the Medical Evaluation Parity for Servicemembers Act of 2014," stated Heather Kelly, PhD, American Psychological Association. • “Hundreds of veterans over the last 13 years have been discharged with personality disorders rather than be properly diagnosed for post-traumatic stress disorder or traumatic injury. The MEPS Act would help such veterans by initial screening new recruits and setting a mental baseline for those who are eventually deployed,” stated Marshall Hanson, CAPT, USNR (ret.), Legislative Director, Reserve Officers Association (ROA). • “AUSN supports The Medical Evaluation Parity for Servicemembers (MEPS) Act brings mental health to parity with physical health and will ensure that our incoming troops are both physically and mentally fit to serve,” stated Anthony A. Wallis, Legislative Director, Association of the U.S. Navy (AUSN). • “The National Military Family Association supports the Medical Evaluation Parity for Service Members (MEPS) Act of 2014. We are gravely concerned about suicide trends among service members and veterans and the impact they have on families. We believe it is important to establish a baseline mental health assessment so that any subsequent evaluations can more accurately determine whether an issue is service connected. We thank Representatives Glenn Thompson and Tim Ryan for making the issue of military behavioral health and suicide prevention a priority,” stated the National Military Family Association • “The VFW believes that providing a mental health exam as part of the initial health assessment for military recruits makes perfect sense. Having a baseline assessment can go a long way to protect service members and ensure mental health resources are in place,” stated Raymond Kelley, Legislative Director, Veterans of Foreign Wars.
03.27.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Ryan voted in favor of H.R. 4278, the Ukraine Support Act and Sanctions Bill. This legislation sends a clear message to Russia who continues to infringe upon the sovereign rights of the people and country of Ukraine. This bill will also demonstrate America’s unwavering support to both Ukraine and democracies across the world.“I firmly denounce the unlawful actions of Russia in their invasion and annexation of the Ukrainian territory of Crimea. I vow to continue my support of the rights, freedoms, and sovereignty of the people of Ukraine,” said Congressman Ryan. “With 80 percent of Russia’s natural gas exports going to the Europe, I am pleased that this legislation calls on the President and Secretary of Energy to increase our natural gas exports to nations in Eastern Europe, including Ukraine, giving them an alternative energy source outside of Russia.” The Ukraine Support Act and Sanctions Bill encourages U.S. efforts to break Russia’s energy grip over Eastern Europe, including the promotion of increased natural gas exports and an examination of the potential impact of increased U.S. natural gas and oil exports on Russia’s influence. Further, this legislation will call upon the President to sanction those individuals, within and outside the Russian government who wield significant influence over the formulation and implementation of Russian foreign policy. This legislation will also require the Administration to carefully scrutinize banks, especially Russian banks, to determine if they are involved in the plunder of Ukraine’s assets through money laundering, the financing of terrorists, actively helping to skirt sanctions, or helping to annex Crimea. Finally, this legislation provides expedited assistance to the Government of Ukraine to identify and recover stolen assets, and calls for U.S. efforts to enhance Ukraine’s self-defense capabilities, including a review of U.S. security assistance to that country.
03.27.2014	Washington, D.C - Today Congressman Tim Ryan questioned Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus at a Congressional Appropriations Defense Subcommittee Budget Hearing, asking Secretary Mabus and the Navy to abandon its anti-competitive contracting measures which penalizes U.S. domestic tire manufacturers like Goodyear Tire in Akron. Existing contracts with the U.S. Navy allow foreign tire manufacturers to act as program managers for the Navy tire contract. The result of this has been that Navy contractors such as Michelin select their own tires 98% of the time, with many of those tires imported. “Mr. Secretary this budget environment is extremely tight”, said Congressman Ryan during the testimony. “Let us save the taxpayer some money, conduct business in a uniform way across DOD, provide competitive pricing for aviation tires, inject fairness, and allow for investment in American manufacturing.” Congressman Ryan pointed out to Secretary Mabus that any new contracts “should prohibit any tire manufacturer from acting as a prime contractor for the management of the contract” (the Fiscal Year 2010 Defense Appropriations Report). Those reforms have almost completely eliminated the unfair, uncompetitive, and uneven process that allowed Paris, France-based Michelin Tire to directly contract and manage Department of Defense tire procurement. Congressman Ryan also cited a letter written to the Secretary on March 19th by Congressman Ryan and nineteen other members of Congress asking the Navy to take action in the procurement of tires for Sailors and Marines. To view a PDF of letter click here. ###
03.24.2014	Washington, DC – The United States House of Representatives today passed Congressman Tim Ryan’s legislation that renames the Tallmadge Branch Post Office as the “Lance Corporal Daniel Nathan Deyarmin Jr. Post Office Building” (H.R. 1813). Lance Corporal Daniel Nathan Deyarmin Jr. was a lifelong resident of Tallmadge, Ohio who bravely served his country in the Iraq war and died in the line of duty on August 1, 2005. To view video of Congressman Ryan's speech click here His family moved to Tallmadge, Ohio when he was 1 ½ years old and he never left. He attended Tallmadge schools from elementary through high school. In 2003, LC Deyarmin joined the US Marine Corps upon graduation from high school. When asked why he wanted to be a Marine he said that he wanted a brother and that he wanted to become a respectable, responsible, productive American. In March of 2005, LC Deyarmin was deployed to Iraq. Five months later, on August 1st, 2005, LC Deyarmin died in the line of duty in Barwana, Iraq near the Euphrates River by small arms fire. Five other Marines were killed by his side. “I am pleased that the House of Representatives voted to rename the Tallmadge Branch Post Office in memory of Lance Corporal Daniel Nathan Deyarmin Jr.,” said Congressman Ryan. “LC Deyarmin bravely served our nation in Iraq and sadly lost his life in the line of duty two days after his 22nd birthday. It is important that our communities find a way to honor the lives of their fallen heroes—and this is a fitting reminder.” On November 5, 2012, the Tallmadge City Council passed Resolution 31-2012 in support of renaming the Tallmadge Branch Post Office in memory of Lance Corporal Daniel Nathan Deyarmin Jr. Congressman Ryan introduced H.R. 1813 on April 26, 2013 and the House Subcommittee on Oversight and Government Reform passed it by unanimous consent on March 12, 2014.
03.13.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan today issued the following statement after the City of Youngstown and VAM USA announced an investment of $81.5 to build a threading mill: “I am thrilled that VAM USA has chosen to expand in Youngstown, investing over $80 million and providing 84 new jobs for the Mahoning Valley. This expansion follows an initial $20 million in federal stimulus money that led to the public-private partnership and the building of the Vallourec mill. These investments don’t happen by accident; they are the result of hard work by people at all levels of government and private industry. “This is yet another example of companies looking at the Mahoning Valley and finding it to be a perfect place to build and grow their businesses. In addition, this expansion shows the immense support President Obama is extending to American businesses by placing duties on imported steel pipe, which has resulted in increased investments and jobs creation for American workers.”
03.10.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Rob Portman (R-OH) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH), members of the Senate Committee on Finance, along with U.S. Reps. Mike Turner (R-OH) and Tim Ryan (D-OH) led a letter signed by 28 lawmakers to Congressional leaders pushing for the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) to be extended, an issue of particular importance to retired United Steelworkers and Delphi salaried retirees struggling to maintain affordable healthcare. Today’s letter was also signed by Ohio Reps. Steve Chabot (R-OH), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Bill Johnson (R-OH), Dave Joyce (R-OH) and Steve Stivers (R-OH). It calls for the leaders of the Senate Finance Committee and House Ways and Means Committee to attach the HCTC to any bill reported out of these committees. The HCTC, which assists struggling Americans with their health bills, expired on January 1, 2014. “Without the HCTC, which expired on January 1, 2014, these salaried retirees face financial hardship with up to 50 percent of their remaining pension going to fund their health care premiums,” the lawmakers wrote. “Given the importance of the HCTC to these American families who have already lost so much, we urge that an extension of this valuable program be included in any bill reported out of your respective committees.” This letter follows a December Finance Committee hearing where Portman and Brown introduced a bipartisan amendment to extend the HCTC for two years. After debate on the Portman-Brown amendment, the Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee committed to work toward extending the HCTC, which was the first such commitment from Senate leaders. The HCTC is a vital tool for many Americans who have experienced job loss and receive Trade Adjustment Assistance or have had their defined benefit pension plans taken over by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC), such as thousands of Delphi salaried retirees in Ohio along with many retired United Steelworkers. Often the HCTC serves as an important bridge for Americans until they become eligible for Medicare benefits. When Delphi’s defined benefit pension plan was terminated, 20,000 Delphi salaried retirees lost up to 70 percent in benefits, including 5,000 Ohioans. Of the 5,000 Delphi salaried retirees and their families in Ohio, about 1,500 are in the Mahoning Valley, 2,000 are in the Dayton area, and a majority of the remaining 1,500 are in Columbus and Sandusky. The full text of the letter is below. Today’s letter: March 10, 2014 Chairman Dave Camp Chairman Ron Wyden Committee on Ways and Means Committee on Finance U.S. House of Representatives U.S. Senate Washington, D.C. 20515 Washington, D.C. 20510 Representative Sander Levin Senator Orrin Hatch Ranking Member Ranking Member Committee on Ways and Means Committee on Finance U.S. House of Representatives U.S. Senate Washington, D.C. 20515 Washington, D.C. 20510 Dear Chairmen Camp and Wyden and Ranking Members Levin and Hatch: Thousands of families rely on the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC), which helps some struggling American families pay their health bills. These families include thousands of Delphi retirees whose pensions were terminated during the GM bankruptcy and subsequently turned over to the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation. While the benefits of many Delphi retirees were restored, the 20,000 Delphi salaried retirees lost up to 70 percent of their pensions. Without the HCTC, which expired on January 1, 2014, these salaried retirees face financial hardship with up to 50 percent of their remaining pension going to fund their health care premiums. Given the importance of the HCTC to these American families who have already lost so much, we urge that an extension of this valuable program be included in any bill reported out of your respective committees. Thank you for your attention to this important issue.
03.04.2014	Washington DC – Today Congressman Tim Ryan, member of the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement on President Obama’s FY 2015 Budget: “President Obama’s 2015 budget proposal is a forward-thinking roadmap for innovation and economic growth in our nation. I applaud the president for building upon the success of Youngstown’s America Makes and including in his budget the creation of 45 manufacturing innovation institutes over the next ten years. I am pleased that the president’s budget prioritizes the rebuilding of our nations failing roads and bridges and creating a world class infrastructure for our next generation. “The President’s budget is promoting policies that will help the less advantaged by expanding the Earned Income Tax Credit, increasing the minimum wage, and extending unemployment benefits. While reducing the deficit by $2 trillion over the next ten years, this budget also makes investments in education, scientific research, American energy, senior services, and national security.”
03.04.2014	Congressman Tim Ryan today issued the following statement on the crisis in Ukraine: “I condemn President Putin's invasion of Ukraine's territory, and I call upon President Putin to end this destabilizing operation quickly. All Americans should be aware that Russia can be a potentially dangerous player. There are sensitive economic and political interests tied into this current situation, and any action on behalf of the United States and its allies will certainly invite retaliation from the Russians. But this type of behavior is unacceptable and the world community must intervene in a firm and pragmatic way. Under the circumstances, President Obama should not attend the G-8 Summit in Sochi—and he should ask the European participants to do the same. Secretary of State John Kerry has suggested actions including asset freezes, visa bans, a disruption of trade, and a slowdown in business investments in Russia. I will support any of these measures in pushing Putin to withdraw his troops. “This crisis also points to the fact that the United States should help Eastern Europe find alternative sources of natural gas. Eighty percent of Russia’s natural gas exports are to the European Union, but if Russia is going to be an unreliable partner, we should be ready to step in. We need to increase our exports and help supply Ukraine and other countries of Europe a consistent source of natural gas other than Russia. As I've done in the past, I am calling on the Secretary of Energy and The President to expedite the process to allow our domestic producers to export LNG to countries like Ukraine and other non-FTA countries in that region. Taking this action will allow these countries to diversify their energy sources and reduce their dependence on Russia, while also stimulating our economy and providing geo-political leverage over Russia."
02.28.2014	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan announced today that nearly $9.5 Million in Hardest Hit Funds that have been awarded to Mahoning, Trumbull and Summit Counties for demolition of vacant homes. The Mahoning County Land Reutilization Corporation received $4,266,250; Trumbull County Land Reutilization Corporation received $3,221,250; and Summit County Land Reutilization Corporation received $2,000,000. “These funds will help reinvigorate the areas in our communities that have been hit hardest by long-term blight and decay, creating healthier, economically competitive and sustainable neighborhoods,” said Congressman Ryan. “This investment is a big step in the right direction towards breathing new life into neighborhoods still recovering from the housing crash. Whether it’s in Youngstown, Warren, or Akron we are seeing our communities reinvent themselves and this program will bring us closer to achieving our goals.” The Ohio Housing Finance Agency received approval in August from the U.S. Department of Treasury to utilize up to $60 million of the state’s remaining Hardest Hit Funds to prevent future foreclosures by stemming the decline in home values in communities affected negatively by vacant and blighted properties.
02.28.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan today issued the following statement in response to Senate Republicans refusing to end debate on the Comprehensive Veterans Health and Benefits and Military Retirement Pay Restoration Act of 2014. This legislation contains many provisions sought by Congressman Ryan in his Veterans and Armed Forces Health Promotion Act of 2013:“I am disappointed that Senate Republicans continue to play politics with veterans’ health and retirement benefits. In addition to reinstating the pension cuts that were passed in the 2014 Budget Agreement, this legislation contains language that would help expand and improve health benefits for our nation’s veterans. The bill would help promote the use of innovative treatments by establishing complementary and alternative medicine pilot programs for mental health and pain management for veterans. It also provides combat veterans and their family members increased access to wellness programs around the country, and creates additional pilot programs on health promotion for obese and overweight veterans through support of fitness center memberships, and provisions of comprehensive medical nutrition therapy. “There is no one size fits all when it comes to improving the health and well-being of our veterans. We have to think about new advanced ways to treat these men and women—and this bill is a crucial first step. I call upon my Senate colleagues to do the right thing for our veteran’s community and pass this legislation. I will continue to fight for these and other provisions to be implemented” Last Fall, Congressman Tim Ryan introduced the Veterans and Armed Forces Health Promotion Act of 2013 which is the House of Representatives’ companion legislation of the Senate’s Comprehensive Veterans Health and Benefits and Military Retirement Pay Restoration Act of 2014.
02.28.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan joined today with Congressmen Steve Stivers, Mark Takano, and Mick Mulvaney to co-found the Congressional Maker Caucus, which will help promote America’s growing “maker” economy, including the use of new technologies with the potential for revolutionizing American manufacturing and lowering barriers to entrepreneurship. Through the use of maker technologies such as desktop 3D printers, CNC machines, and consumer grade laser cutting machines, already-established businesses can explore new product lines, add employees, and attract new customers, while do-it-yourself entrepreneurs will have more opportunity to find their niche in the manufacturing sector and build new businesses. The Congressional Maker Caucus will provide a greater voice in Congress to those individual and companies who are a part of this growing movement.“Experts tell us that the economy of making things is five times larger than the digital economy and the Maker Caucus will help us advance the right policies to keep our manufacturing sector thriving,” said Congressman Ryan. “I am happy to join my colleagues Congressmen Stivers, Takano and Mulvaney in working on behalf of these new industries that will transform the way we make things in the United States—as well as bring in large number of new entrepreneurs into the process.” “I am excited to be a part of the new Maker Caucus,” Stivers said. “It is important that Congress recognize, support and help grow the technologies and jobs of the future. A company in my district, Ohio WilloWood, uses the 3D printers to help develop prosthetics for veterans and others. These cutting-edge, small businesses, like WilloWood, will only continue to expand and flourish.”“For the past century, innovation and entrepreneurship has helped propel the American economy,” said Congressman Takano, “but with global competition increasing, developing new industries right here in the United States could not be more important. The Congressional Maker Caucus looks to harness the power of America’s best and brightest and advocate for America’s maker community in the halls of Congress and I am thrilled to be a co-founder. I thank Congressman Ryan, Congressman Stivers, and Congressman Mulvaney for expressing a similar interest in the maker movement and look forward to growing maker communities, much like the one in the Inland Empire.”Congressman Mulvaney added, “I’m proud to join my colleagues in the creation of the Congressional Maker Caucus. It’s important that we as legislators recognize the value of innovation right here in America, and I look forward to advocating for this growing industry in Washington.” Maker technologies such as 3D printers are already being used to build custom dental fittings and crowns; custom prosthetics; and electrical circuits. Bio 3-D printers can print a layer of a patient’s own cells which can grow to organs; bladders and kidneys have already been demonstrated in labs. At America Makes (formerly the National Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute) in Youngstown, OH an extensive network of additive manufacturing technical expertise is already working to advance additive manufacturing and create new jobs.
02.28.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan announced nearly $650,000 in successful grant approvals today awarded for both Neighborhood Development Services in Ravenna and the East Akron Neighborhood Development Corporation Inc. Neighborhood Development Services was awarded $572,500 in grant funds, and East Akron Neighborhood Development Corporation Inc. was awarded $176,000 in grant funds. NeighborhoodWorks America has awarded these grants in order to create opportunities for people to obtain affordable housing, improving their lives and strengthening the communities in which they reside.“These funds will go a long way to help aid residents residing in our district when they need it most.” said Congressman Ryan. “Our economy is growing stronger every day, but communities and households across the country were hurt during our nations recent recession and this is exactly the kind of reinvestment and action needed to assure that they get back on their feet.” David Vaughan, Executive Director of Neighborhood Development Services said, “The NeighborWorks funding made possible by Congressman Ryan's support of Neighborworks America is critical financing with which to create new homeowners, develop afford able rental housing, create jobs and support community development efforts. Examples would be the movie theater in Barberton, senior housing, Harvest Rose in Ravenna, new affordable single family houses and economic development lending that creates jobs.”“The East Akron Neighborhood Development Corporation (EANDC) is very pleased to have been included in the 2014 grant awards from NeighborWorks America,” said EANDC President and CEO, Grady Appleton. “This is the 10th year in a row that EANDC has received NeighborWorks funding. Their consistent support has allowed EANDC to rebuild and revitalize this community and strengthen the entire Akron area.” The grants are intended to support local NeighborWorks’ efforts to revitalize and sustain their communities, promote and preserve affordable housing for the residents of their service areas, and create and sustain jobs through local NeighborWorks-supported projects and activities in the State of Ohio. NeighborWorks America is a public nonprofit organization, established by Congress in 1978. Through just their efforts last year alone, 21,000 individuals were afforded an opportunity to own a home, 16,200 family households were saved from foreclosure and 43,800 family households in need were repaired.
02.26.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) have introduced legislation to help provide emergency relief to the ongoing propane and home heating fuels shortage in the United States. Ryan and Shuster introduced H.R. 4076, the Home Heating Emergency Assistance Through Transportation (HHEATT) Act of 2014 to address transportation and distribution issues that have contributed to the shortage. An exceptionally cold winter has increased demand for propane, which is used for heating in more than 12 million U.S. households, and for other home heating fuels. Supplies are expected to remain tight through the end of winter because the infrastructure to deliver propane to high-demand areas is insufficient. The U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) has issued temporary emergency declarations to allow tank truck operators delivering propane and other home heating fuels to drive for longer hours to speed up deliveries to the affected states. However, these declarations can only last 30 days at a time, creating uncertainty and limited relief. The HHEATT Act provides a guaranteed extension of USDOT short-term emergency declarations until May 31, 2014. “With looming propane shortages and over 12 million American relying on propane to heat their homes, it is simply un-American for Congress not to step-up address this issue,” said Congressman Ryan. “As we continue to see extremely low temperatures, it is imperative that we pass the HHEATT Act to help ensure that no American family is forced to go cold this winter.” “This extremely cold winter is expected to continue, possibly threatening the lives and livelihoods of those with homes, farms, and businesses that depend on heat from propane and other home heating fuels. This bill will provide the certainty needed to give much needed relief to those who have been impacted by this shortage,” Chairman Shuster said. “The HHEATT Act will help provide relief from transportation issues that have slowed desperately needed fuel from reaching those who need it during this emergency.” Under the HHEATT Act, should the propane and home heating fuels crisis subside prior to May 31, 2014, the U.S. Secretary of Transportation may determine that the extension of the emergency declarations is no longer needed. The Secretary will make such a determination on a state-by-state basis and in consultation with the governors of affected states.
02.25.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan will be at the White House today at 3p.m. as President Obama will announce two new public-private manufacturing innovation institutes – one in Chicago and one in the Detroit area - as well as the first of four new Manufacturing Innovation Institute competitions. These steps will boost advanced manufacturing, strengthen our capabilities for defense, and attract the types of high-quality jobs that a growing middle class requires.“I am excited to be joining the President at the White House for this important announcement,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “I am proud that America Makes (formerly the National Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute), based in Youngstown, is serving as the model for future innovation hubs that will continue the growth in good-paying advanced manufacturing jobs. The manufacturing sector is growing again, and I join the President in pursuing policies and investments that will help expand our manufacturing base.” Today’s announcement of two new DOD-led manufacturing institutes fulfills the President’s pledge in his 2013 State of the Union to establish three new manufacturing innovation institutes from existing resources. In May 2013, the Administration launched competitions for the three institutes with a Federal commitment of $200 million across five agencies – the Departments of Defense, Energy, Commerce, NASA, and the National Science Foundation, building off the success of a pilot institute headquartered in Youngstown, Ohio. In January 2014, the first of these three institutes was announced, the new Department of Energy-led Next Generation Power Electronics Manufacturing Innovation Institute in Raleigh, N.C. The event will be streamed live at 3p.m. at: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live
02.14.2014	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement today in response to the recent Department of Commerce ruling that Chinese imported pipe will be subject to anti-dumping and countervailing duties: “I applaud the Department of Commerce and the International Trade Commission for forcing the Chinese government to play by the same rules that the United States and other countries accept. In November of last year, I organized a joint letter to the Department of Commerce that was signed by seven of my colleagues." "This ruling by the U.S. Department of Commerce is another in a series of strong rulings by the Obama Adminstration that have directly benefited local companies like Vallourec , TMK IPSCO and Wheatland Tube which employ many of our residents."
02.11.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan voted today to fully restore the Military Retiree Cost-of-Living Adjustments (COLA), which was previously reduced by 1% in the Ryan-Murray Budget Agreement for working-age military retirees under the age of 62. “I am proud to lend my support to our veteran community and pass legislation to ensure our military will receive the retirement they were promised when they enlisted,” said Congressman Ryan. “One of my greatest responsibilities as a Member of Congress is to ensure our veterans and active duty armed forces are getting the benefits and care they deserve. These men and women put their lives on the line day in and day out and it is our duty to ensure that we fulfill the commitments we have made to them.” Congressman Ryan was also an original cosponsor of the Military Retirement Restoration Act, which would have repealed the Military Retirement COLA reductions in the Ryan-Murray Budget Agreement. ###
02.06.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. - A bipartisan group of Northeast Ohio lawmakers are announcing today that they have sent a letter to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) urging swift action to prevent invasive species from entering the Great Lakes. Congressman Tim Ryan, Congressman Dave Joyce, Congressman Jim Renacci, and Congresswoman Marcia Fudge penned the letter in response to The Great Lakes and Mississippi River Interbasin Study (GLMRIS) which outlined options to stop Asian Carp, but fell short of recommending the best path forward. Invasive species like Asian Carp could destroy the Great Lakes ecosystem which is the backbone of a $7.5 billion commercial fishing industry and 800,000 jobs. “We need to make every effort to preserve the Great Lakes, not only for our economic well-being, but for what they provide in recreation for people in many states,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “The work the United States Army Corps of Engineers are doing to deal with this invasive species is crucial to countless jobs in our region and the preservation of our environment. The time to act is now.” Joyce stated, “To be frank, we don’t have another 7 years to wait for the Army Corps to outline the best path forward. It’s critical that the ACE quickly recommends and executes a plan of action. There are hundreds of thousands of jobs and over 20% of the world's supply of surface fresh water at stake.” “The Great Lakes are treasured by our region not only for their natural beauty, they are also the source of hundreds of thousands of jobs,” said Rep. Jim Renacci. “I appreciate the Corps of Engineers for its efforts to determine how to best stop invasive species from entering into our Great Lakes, and I urge them to move forward immediately with a plan of action to prevent the destruction of our ecosystem and the fishing industry that relies on it.” Fudge stated, “The Great Lakes are a source of drinking water for 26 million people, and a significant source of jobs – all of which can be harmed by the spread of Asian Carp, a highly invasive and destructive species. The Army Corps of Engineers gathered much needed information and presented options to address this threat. We must now move forward with a plan of action, attacking this problem with the urgency it deserves.” A PDF of the letter can be found here.
02.06.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Ryan today voted in favor of H.R. 3890, the Sportsmen’s Heritage and Recreational Enhancement (SHARE) Act. This legislation will ease excessive regulation on sportsmen and outdoor enthusiasts across our nation; furthermore, it will return some governing power to the states.“Every American citizen should have the right to enjoy and participate in national pastimes such as hunting and fishing, and while no bill is perfect, I am committed to the freedoms and rights of responsible, law abiding sporting enthusiasts,” said Congressman Ryan. “The United States has a wealth of natural beauty and wildlife that has to be protected, but we also have the right to experience and enjoy it firsthand.” The SHARE Act will ease regulations that burden outdoor sporting enthusiasts. Fisherman, recreational shooters, and hunters alike will be afforded the chance to access federal public lands and waters in the pursuit of their hobbies – with reasonable exceptions. This bill will establish a committee to advise the Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture on wildlife, habitat conservation, recreational hunting and shooting. This legislation assures that outdoor enthusiasts everywhere will have their voices heard in Washington.
02.05.2014	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan responded today to the Congressional Budget Office’s (CBO) recent report regarding the budget and economic outlook for the next ten years. He argued against the House Republican’s accusations that Americans are leaving the workforce or cutting back their hours because the Affordable Care Act (ACA) incentivizes Americans to become lazy or complacent. Congressman Ryan questioned CBO Director Doug Elmendorf at the House Budget Committee on the distinction of who are these individuals leaving the workforce or reducing their working hours. For Video Click Here A Congressional Budget Office report came out this week claiming that the ACA will reduce total hours worked by about 1.5 to 2% in 2017 to 2024. The report goes on to add that the reduction in workforce will happen “almost entirely because workers will choose to supply less labor”. The Republican Party has quickly chosen to spin this report for political gain, claiming that this proves the ACA is causing Americans to become lazy or complacent. Congressman Ryan combats these arguments in today’s House Budget Committee Hearing. ###
01.29.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan voted against H.R. 2642, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act of 2013 (Farm Bill), citing a large, too-easily-abused commodity subsidy system, cuts in conservation, and a lack of serious investment in sustainable, regional food that moves the country down a perilous path of subsidizing sickness. “With over 25 million Americans suffering from diabetes, and another 79 million having blood glucose levels higher than normal, we need to seriously think about the effect our food supply is having on our health,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “If we are going to subsidize food crops, we need to make sure we are making it possible for all Americans to buy locally sourced fresh fruits and vegetables. This farm bill lasts five years and the country cannot wait that long for the changes we need in our food system. We cannot continue down this road of diabetes and pre-diabetes.” While the bill eliminates the direct payment program, the new farm bill puts in place a system with higher payment limits than under present law, which will pay the top ten percent of the country’s richest farmers 80% of the benefits. The bill excluded bipartisan commodity subsidy payment limitation reform that was originally included in both the House and Senate versions of the farm bill. H.R. 2642 also creates two new subsidy programs – Agriculture Risk Coverage payment program and the Price Loss Coverage program – as well as sets a maximum adjusted gross income for receiving payments at $900,000. The bill also cuts $6 billion from conservation over the next decade. This will lower the maximum number of acres enrolled in the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) to 24 million acres. This is the first farm bill in which resources for conservation are being reduced. ###
01.29.2014	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following response to President Obama’s State of the Union message: “President Obama laid out a bold agenda that responds to the direction the country needs to go to revive manufacturing, build and maintain our country’s infrastructure, and create the right kinds of jobs that will feed families and put our children through college. I applaud the President’s call for more investments in infrastructure, his commitment to high-tech manufacturing in Youngstown, OH, and his call to replicate the success there in six more places around the country. That our region is once again being held up as an example for the nation to follow should make every Ohioan proud. “I also believe that the President’s proposal to raise the minimum wage for federal contract workers is the right thing to do, and I will work with the President to pass the Harkin-Miller bill to increase the federal minimum wage to $10.10 for other hard-working Americans. The President is right to urge Congress to reinstate unemployment benefits. It is a moral lapse not to do so. “The President talked of four years of 'economic growth, corporate profits and stock prices [that] have rarely been higher,' but those at the top have done better than those in the middle and at the bottom. Those of us in Congress have a responsibility to partner with the President to make sure that all Americans can get ahead, find good jobs, and take care of their families. My Republican colleagues need to put forth proposals that create the opportunities that doesn’t just take care of the 1% at the top, but provides the middle class the opportunity they deserve. “The President reminded us of where we have been these past five years; where we were when we started the recovery in 2009, the positive progress of the Affordable Care Act; a housing market that is finally recovering; and the lowest unemployment rate in five years. But he also reminded us of how far we still have to go. Wages are stagnant and inequality in the nation is still a major problem. There are still too many Americans that are struggling, and our immigration system remains broken. Congress still has a job to do, and I am committed to working with the President to make sure that the American Dream survives. “There is no problem we cannot solve with hard work and compromise. John F. Kennedy reminds us that, ‘Our problems are man-made, therefore they may be solved by man….No problem of human destiny is beyond human beings.'"
01.27.2014	WARREN, OHIO – U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) announced today that 16 local students have been nominated to attend national military academies. Each year, Congressman Ryan nominates some of the best and brightest students from the 13th District to our United States military academies. This year Congressman Ryan recommended sixteen young men and women that have excelled both academically at school, and personally as leaders in their communities. These young people are beginning a journey that would test them physically and mentally, and mold them into our nation’s leaders of the future. Congressman Ryan is proud to have the honor to nominate these young men and women to our United States military academies knowing that they will make our country proud. Each nominee completed an application and interviewed with the 13th District Nomination Committee, and the group will be honored at a breakfast with Congressman Ryan on Sunday, January 26, 2014 at Mcmenamy’s, 325 Youngstown Warren Rd, Niles. The media is welcome at 11:00a.m. The nominated students are as follows: Donald Clyde, Struthers High School, U.S. Military Academy Patrick Ferguson, Tallmadge High School, U.S. Military Academy Elijah Forbes, Cuyahoga Falls High School, U.S. Naval Academy Corey Fox, Barberton High School, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Garrett Gardner, Poland High School, U.S. Air Force Academy Gregory Haylett, Poland High School, U.S. Naval Academy Madeline Lewis, Howland High School, U.S. Military Academy Marcus Masello, Boardman High School, U.S. Military Academy Derek McGuckin, Cuyahoga Valley Christian School, U.S. Air Force Academy Sean Pregi, Boardman High School, U.S. Naval Academy Eriq Rivera, Warren G. Harding High School, U.S. Military Academy Sam Rodman, Alliance High School, U.S. Naval Academy Haley Spletzer, Newton Falls High School, U.S. Air Force Academy Aaron Wirtz, Hubbard High School, U.S. Military Academy Robert Woodruff, Lakeview High School, U.S. Military Academy Daniel Young, Howland High School, U.S. Naval Academy
01.16.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan, along with 115 members of Congress, wrote a letter to House Republican leadership calling on them to keep the House in session until emergency federal unemployment benefits are extended. “It is simply unacceptable and un-American for Speaker Boehner and the Republican House leadership to pack-up and go home for ten days when so many of our family members, friends or neighbors are forced to go without insurance benefits simply because of partisan bickering,” said Congressman Ryan. “Right now there are three people applying for every available job, and it is disrespectful for Congressional Republicans to imply that these unemployed Americans are lazy and don’t want to work. They are sending out resumes and searching for employment day in and day out and it is our job as a society to make sure they and their families have what is needed to survive.” On December 28rd, 1.3 million unemployed Americans lost their insurance, with that number growing higher every day. The Republican House leadership has scheduled ten day recess, which begins tomorrow, without addressing the millions of Americans who are being forced to go without insurance benefits. Over the ten day recess 100,000 more Americans will lose their benefits. ###
01.15.2014	Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today on his support of the FY 2014 Consolidated Government Spending Bill which has passed the House of Representatives: Although this legislation is far from perfect, I am pleased that after years of reoccurring partisan budgetary battles members of Congress have finally set aside their differences and passed a government spending bill. This legislation gets us past the constant cycle of short-term continuing resolutions that have become the norm here in Washington. Additionally, I am pleased that this legislation supports many programs important to Ohioans, including: increased funding for education and Head Start, increased funding for military mental health research, increased funding for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), and it provides funding for a Small Modular Reactor (SMR) program that supports jobs in Barberton, Ohio. With passage, it allows us to move past these budgetary battles that have become all too routine and address pressing issues like creating jobs and passing an unemployment insurance extension. ###
01.15.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan makes the following statement on the agreement to fully integrate Ravenna, Ohio’s Robinson Memorial Hospital into the University Hospitals health system: I am pleased to see that Robinson Memorial Hospital will be fully integrated into the University Hospitals health system. Robinson Memorial Hospital and University Hospital both have a long and proven record of providing high-quality care and this partnership will bring new investments and innovative services to the region, which will benefit our community for years to come.
01.15.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) announced today that Camp Ravenna Joint Military Training Center will receive $5.2 million to extend a sewer line at the facility. The money was secured as part of the Fiscal Year 2014 government spending bill which is expected to pass this week. Congressman Ryan is a member of the House Appropriations Committee, the panel responsible for writing the bill.“Camp Ravenna is a critical component of both our national defense and our local economy in Northeast Ohio,” said Congressman Ryan. “Securing this money improves the long term prospects of the base and will allow this facility to be an even better place to train for our servicemen and women” ###
01.08.2014	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan today issued the following statement congratulating Dr. Beverly Warren on her selection as the next President of Kent State University:"I want to extend my warmest congratulations to Dr. Beverly Warren on her selection as the next president of Kent State University. I look forward to working closely with Dr. Warren. Her tremendous experience and leadership will surely benefit our region for years to come. Dr. Warren’s new role as president ensures that Kent State University will continue to lead Northeast Ohio to a brighter and more prosperous future. I am especially excited to begin working with Dr. Warren given her extensive leadership in the areas of adolescent obesity and urban education. "I also want to thank Dr. Lester Lefton for his extraordinary service as president over the last eight years and I wish him all the best in his future endeavors."
12.18.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan joins Congressman Dan Maffei (D-NY) in introducing the Military Retirement Restoration Act. This legislation will repeal the cuts to military retirement cost-of-living adjustments (COLAs) for working-age retirees that are included in the Bipartisan Budget Act. “Congress must act immediately to pass the Military Retirement Restoration Act and rectify the harm this cut will inflict upon our nation’s veterans,” said Congressman Ryan. “These men and women put their lives on the line for the betterment of our nation, and it is our duty to ensure we fulfill the commitments we made to them. I understand that we have a budget deficit that must be addressed, but it should not be done on the backs of the men and women who are bravely serving in our Armed Services. The Military Retirement Restoration Act is offset by closing tax loopholes used by companies to avoid paying their fair share. Specifically, it blocks companies incorporated offshore but are managed and controlled inside the United States from being able to claim foreign status and avoid paying U.S. taxes. Reducing military retirement COLAs saved tax payers $6 billion over ten years; the Military Retirement Restoration Act’s closure of these tax loopholes saves taxpayers $6.6 billion over ten years. ###
12.18.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to yesterday’s announcement that more than 25 million seniors on Medicare have received one or more free preventative services in 2013 due to the Affordable Care Act: “I am happy to see such a large number of seniors in Ohio and across the nation benefiting from the Affordable Care Act. This legislation has provided free services to more than 25 million seniors and saved seven million Americans on Medicare an average of $1,200 per person. With the Affordable Care Act we are now able to crack down on rampant fraud and abuse with a savings of $15 billion, and extended the Medicare Trust Fund’s solvency by eight years. Americans young and old will see improved access to quality-care and lower costs each and every day as this law becomes fully enacted.” ###
12.13.2013	Rep. Tim Ryan took two major steps to expand protections for survivors of sexual assault this week. He voted in favor the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) on Thursday, which included provisions Rep. Ryan introduced earlier this year in the Combating Military Sexual Assault Act. He also introduced The Shield Act, which will improve protections for victims of sexual assault in pretrial hearings in the military, also known as an Article 32 hearing. “I am committed to providing strong protections to victims of military sexual assault who choose to publically disclose the crime that was committed against them and participate in the judicial process,” said Congressman Ryan. “Victims should never be subjected to irrelevant questioning meant to embarrass and humiliate them. That is why I want to ensure that victims have the protection they need to defend against those types of questions, and a counsel to help enforce that right.” A month ago Rep. Mike Turner and Rep. Niki Tsongas introduced a bill in the House of Representatives to reform pretrial hearings in the military. Rep. Tim Ryan supported and cosponsored that reform, and also recognized that more could be done to protect victims of sexual assault at that stage of the process. So he, along with Rep. Turner, Rep. Tsongas, Rep. Kay Granger, and Rep. Jackie Speier, introduced a bill to provide survivors of sexual assault “rape shield” protections and ensure that a Special Victims’ Counsel can speak on behalf of victims at the hearing. The Shield Act is meant to supplement the reform measures contained in the NDAA. The bill provides sexual assault survivors the ability to speak through their own attorney, the Special Victims’ Counsel (SVC) established in the NDAA, at the Article 32. This important right will ensure that an attorney can protect privileged information from being disclosed at the hearing. The primary privilege that the SVC can help protect will be what’s commonly referred to as “rape shield.” The bill codifies “rape shield” protections and ensures that a victim cannot be questioned about any irrelevant sexual behavior or sexual predisposition. ###
12.13.2013	"Although this Budget agreement is not perfect, I do believe it is the type of compromise we need to move our nation forward. After years of continued partisan gridlock and short term spending extensions, this agreement gives our nation two years of much needed financial stability. I am pleased that this agreement restores $63 billion in spending over these next two years, partially alleviating some of the devastating fiscal constraints caused by the sequester’s stranglehold on our economy. At the same time this agreement will responsibly provide a $23 billion deficit reduction. Additionally, I am happy that this agreement takes the necessary steps to block a massive reduction the Medicare reimbursement rate for physician services, which would take effect on January 1st. "While I voted in favor of the Budget agreement, I am utterly disappointed that it does not include an extension of unemployment insurance benefits. Unemployment insurance will expire three days after Christmas, leaving 1.3 million out of work Americans and 88,000 Ohioan without benefits if Congress fails to act. I have sent a letter to Speaker Boehner with 174 of House Democrats calling on him to call a vote on this extension. It is imperative that Congress does not go home for the holidays without passing this critical legislation, doing so at a time when so many are in need is callous and un-American."
12.13.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan voted in favor of the Fiscal Year 2014 National Defense Authorization Act (FY14 NDAA), which in addition to authorizing over $625 billion in budget authority for national defense programs included 90 pages of new legislation addressing sexual assault in the military, including legislative changes Congressman Ryan introduced earlier this year. “I am encouraged that the House passed National Defense Authorization Act includes significant and thoughtful reforms to prevent sexual assaults in the military. This is a good first step towards providing much needed support and protection to survivors of sexual assault,” said Congressman Ryan. “We need to continue the process of finding innovative solutions in providing expanded protections to sexual assault victims.” Like the Combating Military Sexual Assault bill Congressman Ryan introduced this summer, the FY14 NDAA enhances the responsibilities of the Pentagon’s Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office, ensures availability of Sexual Assault Response Coordinators for members of the National Guard and the Reserves, and provides for Special Victims’ Counsel to advise and advocate for survivors of sexual assault and it ensures that no commander can throw out a sexual assault conviction. Further, the FY14 NDAA includes a victims’ bill of rights, reforms the pretrial investigation procedures, establishes minimum sentences for offenders and other reforms that target sexual assault and support victims. The bill includes several provisions that recognize the strain of more than a decade of war has placed on our troops and the equipment, technology, and tools. The bill provides $176.5 billion in operation and maintenance funding to help mend some of the damage that has been done to overused equipment and neglected facilities. At a time when military readiness continues to be hurt by mindless cuts through sequestration, this funding is vitally important. In addition, the NDAA bill does not authorize an additional round of Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC). The bill enhances the President’s authority to transfer and release detainees to foreign countries from the United States Naval Station Guantanamo Bay (GTMO). “We must do everything in our power to prevent sexual assaults in our military, and I will continue to look for new opportunities to protect survivors of sexual assault in the military. I also voted for this bill because of its support for our military men and women, providing them with the tools they need to protect this nation and the benefits they have earned while doing it,” said Congressman Ryan. ###
12.13.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan today voted in support of National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which in addition to authorizing over $625 billion in budget authority for national defense programs honors Army Specialist Robert Towles of Windham, OH with the Distinguished Service Cross—the U.S. Army’s second highest military honor. The provision honoring Mr. Towles is identical to legislation authored by Congressman Ryan, HR 3503, that was introduced in September. “It is my honor to play a part in awarding Mr. Towles the Distinguished Service Cross,” said Congressman Ryan. “This recognition is well deserved and long overdue. I commend him once again for his heroic service to our country.” “I am humbled by this honor,” said Mr. Towles, “but this is for the men who died, not for me.” The Army initially awarded Mr. Towles the Bronze Star for Valor but determined in 2013 that he can receive the more prestigious Distinguished Service Cross. The passage of the NDAA now ensures that Mr. Towles will receive recognition for his heroic service and be honored with the Distinguished Service Cross. ###
12.11.2013	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) introduced H.R. 2783 today as an amendment to the Budget agreement worked out by the House of Representatives and Senate, H.J.Res.59. This legislation provides Delphi retirees and other eligible individuals the choice of continuing within the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) program past the program’s December 31, 2013 termination date or leaving the program. Current law—enacted as part of the Affordable Care Act—terminates the HCTC program at the end of this year. H.R. 2783 extends the HCTC program for currently-enrolled participants, so long as the participants are receiving PBGC pensions and there are no breaks in their coverage. “I stand firm and committed to doing everything in my power to ensure that we do not leave behind these hardworking Americans, like the Delphi Retirees, who have had their pensions and healthcare significantly reduced through no fault of their own,” said Congressman Ryan. “Through this Budget agreement, Congress has the opportunity to extend the Health Coverage Tax Credit program to ensure that those who had their earned heath benefits stripped from them continue to receive the affordable coverage they deserve.” Current enrollees who are eligible for HCTC as a result of receiving Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) would not be grandfathered into the program, nor would new enrollees be allowed after December 31, 2013. ###
12.11.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan today joined 165 of his Democratic House colleagues in signing a letter to House Speaker John Boehner urging him to bring an extension of federal unemployment benefits to the House Floor for a vote. Benefits are now scheduled to expire on December 28, cutting jobless aid to 1.3 million Americans immediately, and an additional 1.9 million Americans will lose their federal unemployment insurance during the first six months of 2014. “Passage of this bill will make a difference to over three million Americans, including almost 88,000 Ohioans,” said Congressman Ryan. “As it stands now, three days after Christmas 1.3 million Americans will lose their unemployment insurance if the House does not act. Speaker Boehner and House Republicans must realize that people still have to pay for gas, groceries, and mortgages. Going home for the holidays without passing this critical legislation at a time when so many are in need is callous and un-American.” ### Letter to Speaker Boehner is below: December 11, 2013 The Honorable John Boehner Speaker, U.S. House of Representatives H232, U.S. Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Boehner: We write to urge you to address the looming expiration of unemployment benefits for millions of Americans before adjourning Congress for the remainder of the year. Without swift Congressional action, 1.3 million jobless workers will have their benefits cut off on December 28th, and nearly another 1.9 million will lose their unemployment benefits over the first half of next year. This would not only be a devastating blow for millions of Americans who are already struggling, but it would also hurt our economy. The Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program is scheduled to immediately and completely stop at the end of 2013, during the holiday season, with the last payable week ending on December 28th. All current EUC beneficiaries will lose their benefits, and individuals exhausting their limited state unemployment benefits will no longer be eligible for EUC benefits in 2014. This cutoff will affect over 3 million Americans over the next six months, and thereby also negatively impact our economic growth. In fact, recent estimates indicate that the expiration of the EUC program would cost our economy 310,000 jobs and drain roughly four-tenths of a percentage point from first-quarter economic growth. While unemployment benefits remain a critical lifeline for dislocated workers and their families, these benefits have recently been significantly scaled back. According to the Congressional Research Service, the total amount of weeks of unemployment benefits has dropped by more than a third across the states, and by more than 50 percent in some states, compared to two years ago. Furthermore, the recipients have seen their weekly benefit payment provided by the EUC program cut under sequestration. Even with the progress our economy has seen since the depths of the recession, there are still 1.3 million fewer jobs today than when the recession started six years ago. Additionally, approximately 4 million Americans are considered long-term unemployed, and have been looking for work for more than six months. Now is certainly not the time to further decimate vital federal assistance to workers who have lost their job through no fault of their own and who must actively seek work in order to be eligible for unemployment benefits. We therefore strongly urge you to immediately bring up a one-year extension of the current EUC program. Thank you for your attention to this critical issue. Sincerely, Sander Levin Barbara Lee Lloyd Doggett Steny H. Hoyer James Clyburn Xavier Becerra Joe Crowley Steve Israel Robert Andrews Karen Bass Joyce Beatty Ami Bera Sanford Bishop, Jr. Tim Bishop Earl Blumenauer Suzanne Bonamici Robert A. Brady Bruce Braley Corrine Brown Julia Brownley Cheri Bustos G.K. Butterfield Lois Capps Michael Capuano Tony Cardenas Matt Cartwright Joaquin Castro Kathy Castor Donna M. Christensen Judy Chu David Cicilline Yvette Clarke Wm. Lacy Clay Emanuel Cleaver Steve Cohen John Conyers, Jr. Gerald E. Connolly Jim Cooper Jim Costa Joe Courtney Elijah E. Cummings Danny K. Davis Peter DeFazio Diana DeGette John Delaney Rosa L. DeLauro Suzan DelBene Ted Deutch John D. Dingell Donna F. Edwards Keith Ellison Eliot L. Engel William Enyart Anna Eshoo Elizabeth H. Esty Sam Farr Chaka Fattah Bill Foster Lois Frankel Marcia L. Fudge John Garamendi Alan Grayson Al Green Gene Green Raul Grijalva Michelle Lujan Grisham Luis V. Gutierrez Janice Hahn Colleen Hanabusa Alcee L. Hastings Denny Heck Brian Higgins James A. Himes Ruben Hinojosa Rush Holt Michael Honda Steven Horsford Jared Huffman Hakeem S. Jeffries Henry C. "Hank" Johnson, Jr. Marcy Kaptur William Keating Joseph P. Kennedy, III Daniel Kildee Derek Kilmer Ron Kind Ann Kirkpatrick Ann McLane Kuster James R. Langevin John B. Larson Sheila Jackson Lee John Lewis Daniel Lipinski Dave Loebsack Alan S. Lowenthal Nita Lowey Ben Ray Lujan Stephen F. Lynch Carolyn Maloney Carolyn McCarthy Betty McCollum Jim McDermott James P. McGovern Patrick E. Murphy Grace F. Napolitano Gloria Negrete McLeod Rick Nolan Gregory Meeks Michael H. Michaud George Miller Gwen Moore James P. Moran Jerrold Nadler Richard E. Neal Eleanor Holmes Norton Beto O’Rourke Frank Pallone, Jr. Bill Pascrell, Jr. Ed Pastor Donald M. Payne, Jr. Ed Perlmutter Gary C. Peters Chellie Pingree Pedro R. Pierluisi Mark Pocan David Price Mike Quigley Nick J. Rahall Charles Rangel Cedric Richmond Lucille Roybal-Allard C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Bobby L. Rush Tim Ryan Linda T. Sanchez Loretta Sanchez John P. Sarbanes Janice D. Schakowsky Adam B. Schiff Allyson Y. Schwartz Brad Sherman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott Jose E. Serrano Terri A. Sewell Carol Shea-Porter Kyrsten Sinema Albio Sires Louise M. Slaughter Jackie Speier Mark Takano Bennie Thompson Mike Thompson John F. Tierney Dina Titus Paul Tonko Marc Veasey Nydia Velázquez Chris Van Hollen Juan Vargas Debbie Wasserman Schultz Maxine Waters Melvin L. Watt Henry A. Waxman Peter Welch Frederica Wilson John A. Yarmuth
12.11.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to the passing of longtime Ohio State Legislature William L. Mallory, Sr.: "I am saddened to learn of the passing of William Mallory, Sr. During my short time serving in the state legislature Representative Mallory's presents continued to be felt. He selflessly gave 28 years of service to the citizens of Ohio, impacting ever corner of our great state. And most importantly, he created a family ethic of service that the people of southwest Ohio continue to benefit from. His children and grandchildren will be a constant reminder to us all of how one strong leader can inspire others to care for their fellow citizens. Today we honor that legacy of this great man.” ###
12.09.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) and Dave Joyce (OH-14) introduced legislation today to award a Congressional Gold Medal to civil rights reporter and icon Simeon Booker in recognition of his achievements in the field of journalism. “I couldn’t think of a more worthy American than Simeon Booker to be awarded Congress’s highest honor, the Congressional Gold Medal. His long and illustrious career in journalism and his work to advance the civil rights movement has forever changed our nation for the better,” said Congressman Ryan. “Simeon Booker has devoted his life’s work to breaking barriers and changing the hearts and minds of all those he touched through his writing . He is a true American hero. “Simeon Booker dedicated his career to covering the civil rights movement and achieved many firsts in his field, including becoming the first African-American reporter to win a Newspaper Guild Award and the first full-time African-American reporter at The Washington Post,” Congressman Joyce stated. “We’re proud that Booker started his journalism career in Youngstown, and believe he’s a worthy recipient of the Congressional Gold Medal.” Simeon Booker began his career writing about Negro League baseball teams for the Youngstown Vindicator. In 1950, he received the Nieman Fellowship to study journalism and develop his talent as a reporter. After one year at Harvard, Booker became the first full-time African American reporter at the Washington Post. In 1955 he helped advance the civil rights movement with his famous coverage of the Emmett Till murder and trial – turning a common occurrence in the Deep South into a national tragedy that united the African American community. In 1961, he rode with the Congress On Racial Equality (CORE) Freedom Riders through the Deep South; and, when they were firebombed and beaten by the Ku Klux Klan in Alabama, Booker arranged for their rescue by calling U.S. Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy. Simeon Booker is often referred to as the “Dean of the Black Press”. He has covered every presidential election since 1953 and is the author of two highly acclaimed books: Shocking the Conscience: A Reporter’s Account of the Civil Rights Movement and Black Man’s America. His honors and awards include: Nieman Fellowship, Harvard University 1950; elected president of the Capitol Press Club, 1956; Fourth Estate Award, National Press Club, 1982: inducted into Hall of Fame, Washington Chapter of Sigma Delta Chi, and Hall of Fame of Washington, D.C. 1984; Master Communicators Award, National Black Media Coalition, 1998; Phoenix Award, Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, 2010; inducted into Hall of Fame, National Association of Black Journalists, 2013. ###
11.21.2013	“Today we remember the tragic assassination of one this country’s most beloved leaders, President John F. Kennedy. Like most Americans, I have been a long time admirer of the President Kennedy and his extraordinary legacy. “While it is true that President Kennedy came from a wealthy family, but he devoted his life’s work to serving his country. During WWII, despite having a medical condition that exempted him from mandatory service in the military, he voluntarily enlisted into the navy where he went on to become a decorated war hero. As President, he famously went toe to toe with Soviet Premier Khrushchev during the Cuban Missile Crisis when many thought that a military strike was the only way to neutralize the nuclear threat in our hemisphere, but President Kennedy managed to achieve this objective without firing a single shot. “John F. Kennedy wasn’t the kind of man that would back down from a good fight; he was a man of action, a champion of peace, who lived his life with honor and courage, and inspired a nation to do the same. “Whenever I find myself weighed down by the complex issues of the day, such as healthcare reform, prolonged conflict in the Middle East, or a sluggish economy, I find comfort in a quote from one of President Kennedy’s speeches: “Our problems are manmade; therefore, they can be solved by man. And man can be as big as he wants. No problem of human destiny is beyond human beings." edy’s speeches: “Our problems are manmade; therefore, they can be solved by man. And man can be as big as he wants. No problem of human destiny is beyond human beings."
11.21.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement in response to the announcement from the 910th Airlift Wing concerning aircraft and personnel losses at YARS: “I am a long time supporter of the 910th Airlift Wing and the Youngstown Air Reserve Station (YARS), not only for its work in defending this nation, but also its contribution to our local economy. I am disappointed the Air Force has decided to move four C-130 planes out of Youngstown and troubled that local jobs will be lost. They have decided to move these planes regardless of the fact that YARS Airmen have been doing an outstanding job and the base has the infrastructure to support additional planes and additional military and civilian jobs. “YARS has a long and proud history in the Mahoning Valley and a unique capability as the Department of Defense’s only fixed-wing aerial spray unit. I will continue to advocate for the Department of Defense to make long term investments and increase the manpower at YARS to take full advantage of its capabilities.”
11.21.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan, along with U.S. Senators Rob Portman (R-Ohio) and Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), worked together to introduce legislation to honor Army Specialist Robert Towles of Windham, OH with the Distinguished Service Cross—the U.S. Army’s second highest military honor. Although he was seriously wounded himself, Mr. Towles heroically fended off an enemy attack in Vietnam and saved the lives of fellow soldiers in his Company. The Army initially awarded Mr. Towles the Bronze Star for Valor but determined in 2013 that he is eligible to receive the Distinguished Service Cross, which more appropriately recognizes his actions. This bipartisan legislation will ensure that Mr. Towles receives proper recognition for his acts of valor and is honored with the Distinguished Service Cross despite the many years that have passed.“Our country will be forever indebted to Mr. Towles for his dedicated service and life-saving heroism. I first began working with Mr. Towles to get him this award nearly ten years ago, and while it’s taken a long time to arrive at this point, I am grateful that he will finally receive the recognition he has always deserved,” said Congressman Ryan.“Mr. Towles is a hero who exemplified true bravery, honor, and sacrifice while himself wounded in combat,” Senator Brown said. “His service to our nation promoted peace and democracy, and his actions saved the lives of his fellow soldiers. It is for these reasons that Mr. Towles deserves both our gratitude, respect, and the Distinguished Service Cross.” “The Distinguished Service Cross is the second highest award that can be given to a member of the United States Army. Only those who exercise extreme gallantry at the risk of life can receive it. It is past time that Specialist Robert Towles was considered for this great honor. It is one he has earned,” said Senator Portman. On November 17, 1965, Specialist Robert Towles and the 2nd Battalion, 7th Cavalry encountered enemy soldiers. Towles was wounded early in the fighting and although he was bleeding heavily, he attacked an enemy machine gun overlooking his company’s position. With hand grenades and a rifle, he killed and wounded numerous enemy soldiers and silenced a machine gun. He led the survivors to the defensive perimeter while returning fire against the enemy. His actions allowed the wounded to be removed from the battlefield.
11.19.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan and 19 Members of Congress requested today that the Department of Health and Human Services use the full extent of their authority to require additional disclosure from insurers who are sending health plan cancellation letters to customers. A copy of the text sent to Secretary Kathleen Sebelius is available here. The letter requests that insurers notify customers of why their plan is being cancelled, provide full information on what other options are available, and give customers additional time to select a new plan. Many consumers have received notices that their health plan is being cancelled and told if they don’t take immediate action, they will automatically be enrolled in a more expensive plan. These letters fail to notify customers that more affordable options, including subsidies, may be available through the health care exchanges. “I am pleased that the President has taken the appropriate steps to allow individuals to stay on their current health plans and ease the transition to new plans through 2014,” said Congressman Ryan. “All Americans deserve to receive the high quality healthcare that the Affordable Care Act ensures by eliminating pre-existing conditions, end discrimination against women, and expanding coverage to millions. Those Americans whose current coverage does not meet these standards must begin to consider new plans, and during this process it is critical that they have accurate information on what their current plan covers and their options moving forward. As we move forward we cannot allow insurers to misrepresent coverage and mislead the public into choosing more expensive plans or continuing a plan that does not meet the basic standards every American deserves.” The letter was signed by Representatives Brady (PA), Connolly (VA), Cartwright (PA), Delaney (MD), Enyart (IL), Esty (CT), Himes (CT), Horsford (NV), Jackson Lee (TX), McCarthy (NY), Moran (VA), Murphy (FL), Peters (CA), Peters (MI), Ruiz (CA), Ryan (OH), Schwartz (PA), Shea-Porter (NH), Titus (NV).
11.14.2013	"I am extremely disappointed with Lockheed Martin’s decision to close its Akron facility. As a member of the Defense Subcommittee on Appropriations, I have taken every opportunity to assist Lockheed and their workforce by supporting the funding that they needed to keep our defense industries strong. In fact, I secured over $26 million in federal funds for key Lockheed research and development projects. "This announcement will displace employees, cause terrible pain for many hard-working families and disrupt the economy of Akron and northeastern Ohio. This is what happens when a small group of Congressional conservative extremists in the House do nothing but criticize the federal government—even when it comes to investments that provide the best technology to our servicemen and women. With this closing, we are seeing the devastating damage these draconian spending cuts are causing in Ohio. This is not leadership, and the blame must be laid at the feet of those who voted for these cuts. House Republicans and Tea Party extremists had a chance to reach across the aisle and compromise, but they decided they would rather hold the American people hostage. "I said back in March that sequester and the automatic spending cuts that would come with it could “cost Ohio a massive loss of jobs.” There is another way forward, and I stand ready to end sequester and its damaging consequences for Akron and northeastern Ohio. We must act now." # # #
11.13.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan, founder and chairman of the House Manufacturing Caucus, made the following statement in support of today’s Senate Commerce Committee hearing on how to strengthen U.S. innovation and manufacturing. Eric A. Spiegel, President and CEO of Siemens Corporation and Michael S. Garvey, President and CEO of Youngstown’s M-7 Technologies – both from the Mahoning Valley and industry leaders – testified at today’s Senate Hearing. “I applaud the Senate Commerce Committee for highlighting the vital role American manufacturing plays in the U.S. economy. I am pleased that the Committee has chosen Eric Spiegel and Michael Garvey, who both happen to be from the Mahoning Valley, to testify on how to strengthen manufacturing across the nation,” said Congressman Ryan. “Manufacturing generates approximately 12 percent of our nation’s GDP, makes up two-thirds of our total goods and services exports, and has propelled Youngstown to being one of the top international trade economies in the United States. We must continue to build on these successes and make the investments that will give our manufacturing sector the resources necessary to stay at the cutting edge of new technologies and remain the world leader in advanced manufacturing.” ###
11.08.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Rich Nugent (R-FL) honor Veteran’s Day this year with not just words, but action – Next week, they will introduce the Veterans and Armed Forces’ Health Promotion Act of 2013. This bipartisan legislation takes extraordinary steps to improve the quality of health care provided to wounded warriors by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and the Department of Defense (DoD). “One of my most greatest responsibilities as a Member of Congress is to ensure our veterans and active duty armed forces are getting the benefits and care they deserve,” said Congressman Ryan. “This legislation will go a long way towards dramatically improving the quality of care that our wounded warriors receive, and propel the VA and DoD towards innovative healthcare solutions for the complex challenges they face. I believe these complementary and alternative approaches can help preemptively address needs and ultimately create less expensive treatments for long term veteran healthcare.” "Our military is an all-volunteer force and we owe it to them to ensure they get the very best medical care and support when they come home. One critical part of that is doing everything possible to address health challenges that are specific to veterans. There are steps that the VA and DOD can take to innovate and find better ways of delivering the care that Congressman Ryan and I are dedicated to making sure happens. This legislation will further that effort and I am very proud to be able to help move it forward," said Congressman Nugent. The Veterans and Armed Forces’ Health Promotion Act expands the scope of holistic care education and research for signature wounds such as Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI). It also establishes complementary and alternative medicine pilot programs for mental health and pain management treatment for veterans at ten different locations across the United States. Both pieces of legislation establish some common sense wellness programs to prevent health problems. The Veterans and Armed Forces’ Health Promotion Act creates a grant pilot program to upgrade Veteran Service Organization facilities, expanding the reach of wellness services directly into economically strained communities. The bill also reduces duplicative research by incorporating years of work the DoD has already dedicated toward innovation of care; taking an important first step toward shared facilities, which breaks down artificial barriers for treatments and optimizes taxpayer dollars. This legislation also makes funding dependent upon the DoD and VA’s ability to collaborate on healthcare challenges common to military service. Senators Bernie Sanders (I-VT) and John Tester (D-MT ) have introduced H.R. 852, the Veterans’ Health Promotion Act of 2013, as the Senate companion bill, which was referred to and marked up by the Veterans Affairs Committee and is currently awaiting full Senate action. ###
11.08.2013	Washington DC - Today, Reps. Tim Ryan (OH-13), Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), Ron Barber (AZ-02), Paul Tonko (NY-20), and Barbara Lee (CA-13) applauded the Obama administration for issuing final regulations for the Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act (MHPAEA). “Our continuing fight to eliminate the stigma associated with mental illness has taken a critical step forward today,” Congresswoman Napolitano said. “Mental health parity ensures that Americans with mental health and addiction disorders will no longer be discriminated against by health care providers. I thank President Obama and his administration for doing the right thing in establishing long overdue equal access to these services for millions of individuals and their families.” “Men and women suffering from substance abuse and mental health disorders have waited too long to receive the same quality care for their mental health treatment. This is a major step towards finally achieving equality in medical and mental health benefits,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “The price of not treating all of those in need is too high—as we are painfully finding out. As Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus and Military Mental Health Caucus I am pleased that this final rule has been released and the guidance necessary to fully implement this law is finally available to the millions of Americans afflicted with mental health issues and substance abuse disorders.” “All Americans deserve access to the mental health services they need," said Congressman Ron Barber. “For too long mental illness has not been given the same priority as physical illness. This final rule will ensure millions more get access to mental health care at the same level as other health benefits.” “Today’s announcement brings fresh hope to individuals struggling with mental illness and substance abuse issues all across the country,” said Congressman Tonko. “With these final rules finally in place, insurance companies will no longer be able to stepchild mental health and substance abuse services. Moving forward, I will continue to work with the Administration to ensure that these regulations are enforced consistent with the full spirit of the Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act.” “With today's final rule implementation of the Mental Health Parity and Addiction Act, we are one step closer as a nation to ensuring that every American has access to comprehensive substance abuse and mental health treatment,” said Congresswoman Lee. “As a psychiatric social worker, I know how important quality health care is to individuals, families, and communities.” The MHPAEA was signed into law in 2008 and applies to large group health plans that provide mental health and substance use disorder benefits. The law ensures that mental health and substance use disorders are covered equal to other medical illnesses such as, diabetes, asthma, high blood pressure, and other physical illnesses. According to the National Institutes of Health, over 57.7 million Americans suffer from a diagnosable mental health disorder. Access to equal mental health services is especially critical for returning Iraq and Afghanistan military service members, especially since over 70% of National Guardsmen and Reservists receive care in the private sector. Mental disorders currently serve as the leading cause of disability in the United States and amount to $193 billion annually in lost earnings. The passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA), signed into law in 2010, also strengthens and expands the provisions within the MHPAEA. The ACA ensures that pre-existing conditions will not prevent people from seeking coverage and guarantees parity. Mental health and substance use disorder services are part of ten essential benefits categories included in the ACA. Under this essential benefits rule, it is mandatory that individual and small group health plans comply with these parity regulations. Background: One out of every five Americans will suffer from some type of mental illness at least once in their lifetime (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) Report) 70% of adolescents with mental health problems do not receive care (Journal of Adolescent Health, volume 38) The U.S. military loses 25 soldiers to suicide for every soldier lost in combat (New York Times) Final Rule factsheet may be viewed here. If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255) ###
11.08.2013	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan is proud to announce that today, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Labor, and Treasury have issued the final rule to fully implement the Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act (MHPAEA). This landmark legislation takes the necessary steps to ensure that mental health and substance abuse disorders are covered under the same rules as medical health care services – these rules apply to coverage limits, co-payments, and out-of-network. It ensures coverage equality for mental health/substance abuse disorders when compared to other medical coverage. “Men and women suffering from substance abuse and mental health disorders have waited too long to receive the same quality care for their mental health treatment. This is a major step towards finally achieving equality in medical and mental health benefits,” said Congressman Ryan. “The price of not treating all of those in need is too high—as we are painfully finding out. As Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus and Military Mental Health Caucus I am pleased that this final rule has been released and the guidance necessary to fully implement this law is finally available to the millions of Americans afflicted with mental health issues and substance abuse disorders.” The Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act (MHPAEA) was signed into law October 3, 2008. The interim final regulations were later released in February 2010 and went into effect for the majority of the plans on January 1, 2011, yet these key provisions were not finalized. The lack in guidance led to many individuals without access to proper mental health treatment. The release of this final rule allows for the full implementation of the law and will help prevent the ongoing discrimination and lack of access that many people suffering from addiction and mental health issues experience every day. Currently, nearly 60 percent of the 45 million American adults afflicted with mental illnesses go untreated, recent reports also show that only half of children with mental disorders have received treatment for their illness in the past year. ###
11.08.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Tim Ryan, Senator Sherrod Brown, Representative Marcy Kaptur, and Representative Marcia Fudge sent a letter today to Lockheed Martin urging the defense contractor to maintain operations in Akron and save about 600 jobs at the facility. The company’s draft consolidation plan would reportedly include closing the Akron plant and relocating workers to Lockheed Martin facilities in other states. Since reports of the consolidation plan came to light, the offices of Congresswoman Fudge , Senator Brown and Rep. Ryan have held individual discussions with Lockheed Martin’s management expressing their deep concern and disappointment that Lockheed would consider shuttering the competitive Akron plant due to sequestration. “The possible closure of Lockheed Martin’s Akron plant shows just how bad a policy the sequestration is for Ohio and the nation,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “We need to end it now. When our defense industries are talking about laying-off hundreds of employees, we need to take notice, break the sequester fever, and make the investments needed to keep our economy strong. As a member of the Defense Subcommittee for Appropriations, I am infuriated by the possibility of losing almost 600 jobs in Northeast Ohio just because Tea-Party Republicans refuse to remove this destructive sequester." The delegation letter states in part, “This closure would displace many employees, consequently forcing long-standing Ohio families to relocate to other states, while also impacting the Ohio economy. While we understand that the sequester has threatened the short-term financial outlook of the business, closing facilities and relocating employees will cause damage to the economies of the City of Akron and State of Ohio. If employees of the Akron plant are relocated, the loss of approximately 600 jobs would deliver a major blow to the area. The city would not only lose residents, but the loss of tax revenue would also have a systemic effect on the local economy. “ Read the full letter here.
11.07.2013	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan announced today that a $775,000 grant has been awarded to the Asian Service in Action, Inc. (ASIA), a non-profit organization from Akron and Cleveland that works to empower and advocate for Asian Americans/Pacific Islanders. The money will be used to provide culturally and linguistically appropriate information and services, including comprehensive care across all life cycles, including primary care, OB/GYN, pediatrics, geriatrics, preventive dental, diagnostic laboratory and x-ray, pharmacy, and emergency medical services.“I applaud the work that the Asian Services In Action Inc. has done to improve the quality of life for members of our Asian American/Pacific Islander Community," said Congressman Ryan, "and I congratulate them on receiving this grant from the Department of Health and Human Services. We have a civic obligation to make certain that organizations in our community like ASIA, Inc remain fully operational so they can continue their important work.” "Over the last few years we have heard stories from our community about individuals who would delay seeking health care services to take a midnight bus to New York City,” said Michael Byun, Executive Direction of ASIA, Inc. “The individuals go there to see providers who speak their language but more importantly understand their culture and experiences. With this funding from the federal government, we can now ensure that these and other vulnerable individuals have care that is culturally and linguistically relevant but more importantly accessible." Services will be provided at a space centrally located in the service area on Cleveland’s east side, and will also offer health education and outreach, chronic disease care management, behavioral/mental health services and enabling/supportive services. The Asian Service Action Inc. grant was awarded by the Department of Health & Human Services Division of Grants Management Operations. Read the full letter here.
11.01.2013	Washington, D.C. Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement on potential job losses at Lockheed Martin and sequestration: “The Tea Party set out to shrink the government and this announcement about the potential loss of defense jobs at Lockheed in Akron shows they’re getting exactly what they wanted. Back in March of this year when sequestration took effect, there were dire warnings of job losses—yet my Republican colleagues in Congress still thought it was a good idea. Eight months later, the sequester is still in place and we are now starting to see the real effects hit home. “There are consequences to thoughtless, indiscriminate spending cuts. Those who supported sequestration cuts need to be held accountable. How can we ask our families to pay for the recklessness and stupidity of this policy? Democrats have offered alternatives to sequestration on a number of occasions—yet House Republicans refuse to act. I am calling on the Speaker of the House to bring a vote to the House floor to end the sequester once and for all. “Democrats will continue to put forth proposals to make investments where they are needed—and still bring balance to our budget. As a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, I have always been an advocate for the important national security projects built by Lockheed Martin and their northeastern Ohio employees. I am extremely disappointed that they are considering closing their Akron Facility. I have spoken with Lockheed Martin’s leadership to directly communicate my views and urge them to keep these jobs in Akron.” # # #
10.31.2013	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan announces $3,152,791.00 to be awarded to Trumbull Community Acton Program in Warren, Ohio. “I couldn’t be more pleased that Trumbull Community Action has received these funds. During these tough economic times, this critical investment is wonderful news and will bring real and lasting good to our community,” said Congressman Ryan. “Head Start has always provided necessary social services including nutrition and wellness programs for low-income children. These funds will continue these necessary services that enhance their cognitive, social and emotional development. Head Start programs are crucial to our nation and community’s most vulnerable children and I am happy that this grant is going to such a good cause.” This grant is part of the Head Start: Full Year Part Day Handicapped Training and Technical Assistance program though the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). These funds are to fund the program from November 1, 2013 through October 31, 2018. ###
10.30.2013	Video of briefing available here: https://youtu.be/qS8DRR0Dsec Washington, DC – Reps. Tim Ryan (OH-13) and Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) co-hosted a mental health briefing in conjunction with the National Action Alliance for Suicide Prevention and the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention to educate members of Congress and their staff on roles they can take to help promote resilience and successful transitions for Military Service Members and Veterans, thereby reducing suicide.“As legislators and leaders, we have the responsibility to work hard to find innovative approaches to address our Veterans’ mental health and combat Veteran suicide,” said Rep. Ryan, Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Mental Health Caucus. “Today's panel took a positive step in that direction, but we must remain vigilant in seeing that these men and women who served in our armed forces receive the first class help they deserve.”“Mental illness knows no boundaries and affects everybody in every segment of our society,” said Rep. Napolitano, Co-Chair of the House Mental Health Caucus. “We must work together to eliminate stigma for the health and well-being of our brave men and women in uniform. When our veterans return home, these invisible injuries can have a devastating effect on them and their families. We must treat these invisible wounds just as we treat physical wounds. I thank everyone who came today to continue this critical dialogue. Through education of our colleagues, staff, and families, we can save lives by letting those suffering know it is always okay to ask for help.” Speakers at the briefing included Dr. Janet Kemp, RN, PhD, National Mental Health Program Director for Suicide Prevention and Community Engagement at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs; David Litts, OD, Executive Secretary for the Action Alliance for Suicide Prevention; Colonel (Ret.) Don Osterberg, Senior Vice President of Safety and Security at Schneider National, Inc.; John Madigan, Senior Director of Public Policy at the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention; and First Sergeant John Williams, Instructor at the Schneider Training Academy at Schneider National, Inc.; and Sandra Mason, Acting Director for Recovery Care Coordination at the Department of Defense. They presented techniques and resources to prevent suicide among active duty military personnel and veterans and how individuals can eliminate stigma through self-advocacy and education.“Our American service members and veterans are skilled, talented and resilient,” said David Litts of the National Action Alliance for Suicide Prevention. “Thankfully, for the vast majority, suicide is not a serious risk. Still, every suicide by a service member or a veteran is a tragedy and we need to spread the word that for those who do suffer from PTSD, depression, and other mental health conditions: There is help. There is hope. There is a future.”“The American Foundation for Suicide Prevention was pleased to partner with the Action Alliance for Suicide Prevention on today’s briefing,” said John Madigan of the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention. “We thank Congresswoman Napolitano and Congressman Ryan for their leadership and bringing us together. We look forward to continuing to work with partners inside and outside of government to prevent suicide among military personnel, veterans and their families.” While more active duty military and veterans are seeking help, suicide continues to threaten the lives of many service members and veterans. The annual suicide rate among veterans is about 30 for every 100,000 of the population, compared with the civilian rate of 14 per 100,000.If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). Press 1 to connect with the Veterans Hotline. ###
10.30.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement after the Senate announced its plan to vote on the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA), legislation that would prohibit employment discrimination against LGBT Americans in the workplace: “I am pleased that the Senate is planning to vote on the Employment Non-Discrimination Act, and I call upon Speaker Boehner to bring up HR 1755, the companion House bill that I have cosponsored and which will implement protections for the LGBT community against discrimination and harassment. It is long past due to make America’s promise of equality a reality for our LGBT community. Passing these bills will ensure that every American, regardless of their sexual orientation, can achieve the American dream. “The Employment Non-Discrimination Act bans employment discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity by private and public sector employers. Not only do all of our sons and daughters, brothers and sisters, nieces and nephews deserve to love and marry whomever they choose without fear of discrimination or prejudice by employers, they must also have the opportunity to achieve their dreams and help build our economy. Right now—in 29 states, those dreams can be denied by employers. This must end. “This country has a long history of expanding rights—and this is another necessary step forward. As we celebrate the fourth anniversary of the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act (HCPA), I applaud the Senate for taking up this bill—and hope that my colleagues in the House of Representatives will do the same.” ###
10.30.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman Tim Ryan hosted a roundtable conversation yesterday with leaders of top veteran organizations in the United States. The goal of this meeting was to discuss the most pressing issues facing our veteran community, explore possible opportunities for collaboration, and find productive ways address these issues. “As co-chairman of the Military Mental Health Caucus I was pleased to have the opportunity to address important veterans’ issues, such as Post-Traumatic Stress and suicide,” said Congressman Ryan. “For the first time in over a decade active duty suicides exceed combat deaths, and estimates show that veteran suicides may be as high as four times the non-veteran population. It goes without saying that there is a moral imperative to address these issues, but there are also compelling economic reasons. A recent report found the lifetime cost of treating PTSD in a single veteran is $1.4 million. With an estimated 500,000 Iraq and Afghanistan veterans with PTSD, the total cost of treatment could exceed $700 billion. The magnitude of these problems demand that we pursue innovative solutions outside of the normal processes.” Organizations in attendance included: Garry Augustine, Executive Director of Disabled American Veterans; Barbara Van Dahlen, President of Give an Hour; Louis J. Celli, Jr., National Legislative Director, American Legion; Ray Kelley, National Legislative Director of Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States, Nancy McGrory Richardson, Market Development Director of AMVETS; Alex Nicholson, Legislative Director of Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America; and Aaron Scheinberg, Director of Strategy and Research of The Mission Continues.
10.19.2013	Warren, OH -- Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to the passing of Congressman Bill Young: I am deeply saddened by the passing of my friend and colleague Congressman Bill Young. As the most senior member of his party, Congressman Young had the experience and institutional knowledge needed to make real and lasting change. Congressman Young served as the Chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee which gave me the distinct honor to work closely with him and learn from his leadership. Chairman Young was a relentless advocate for our servicemen and women. His bipartisan leadership in the House will be sorely missed. My thoughts and prayers go out to his wife Beverly and his three sons. ###
10.17.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement after voting to end the Republican-led government shutdown and extend the national debt limit. The bill has been passed by both the Senate and House of Representatives, and currently awaiting President Obama’s signature: "I am pleased a deal has been struck to reopen our government and extend the debt limit, enabling us to continue to pay our country’s bills. The Senate has acted in a bipartisan way and come up with a solution to move forward and I, along with all of my fellow Democrats, voted in favor of their bill when it came to the House. While I would prefer that these issues be settled in a more comprehensive way, this is better than keeping the government closed, with 800,000 of federal workers off the job, and our country’s citizens not being able to access their government. "This senseless shutdown has cost tax payers $24 billion dollars and I am pleased that with this deal the bleeding can finally stop. I hope that the damage this crisis caused has taught the Republican Tea Party that radical behavior like shutting down the government and bring our nation to the brink of default is no way to govern – and the American people will not stand for it. There are serious issues that must be addressed in a bipartisan fashion, and hopefully Speaker Boehner and his Republican colleagues will now work with Democrats on legislation to end the sequester, reinvest in our infrastructure, and put Americans back to work. "The American people want the government open and our debts paid on time. That’s the responsible thing to do." ###
10.16.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan and the Ohio Democratic House Delegation sent the following letter today to Speaker John Boehner urging him to call a vote to avert a default on the national debt and end the government shutdown: A PDF of the letter can be found here. October 16, 2013 The Honorable John Boehner Speaker of the House of Representatives H-232, The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Boehner: As fellow Ohioans, we share with you the honor of representing our state and nation. We know your desire is to be a constructive leader who meets the obligations of our time. In the spirit of bipartisanship and with the sincere hope that you will lead the entire House of Representatives—not just your Republican colleagues—towards a solution that ends the crisis of governance now facing our Republic, we urge you to let the House of Representatives take up legislation to end the government shutdown and avert a default on the public debt. Since your first days in the Ohio General Assembly in 1985, you joined a long tradition of Ohio Republican lawmakers who worked across party lines to address important issues for our state and nation. We recall Congressman Dave Hobson and Congressman Ralph Regula working across the aisle to build roads, bridges, highways, new energy generation, and major hospital systems. We remember Congressman Mike Oxley working with Senator Paul Sarbanes to achieve passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley financial reforms. We remember how you worked closely with Democratic Congressman George Miller and Democratic Senator Ted Kennedy to enact the landmark No Child Left Behind Act. Great leadership is required now in this critical time. We know you have said you are opposed to defaulting on the national debt. We believe this statement is guided by the national interest, and we urge you to follow your rhetoric with action: allow the House of Representatives to work its will by bringing up legislation acceptable to the Senate and President Obama which will end the shutdown and avert a default. History will note which leaders were responsible for pulling the country out of this terrible mess and those who stood up to the extremism and the disorder inflicted on the nation by the Tea Party. If you tell your Tea Party members that you will no longer permit them to hold America hostage, you will rally the silent majority of your fellow Republican Members who will join with House Democrats to end this crisis. Then, together, we could spend the next year passing bipartisan legislation to address our economy, immigration, education, transportation, and a myriad of other issues waiting for Congress’s attention. We do not deny that standing up to the Tea Party Republicans is a bold and risky move for you, but history would surely remember your actions as the courage of a true statesman. And isn't that the type of courage our constituents expect of us? Sincerely, Marcy Kaptur Member of Congress Tim Ryan Member of Congress Marcia Fudge Member of Congress Joyce Beatty Member of Congress
10.10.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement after he and his Democratic colleagues met with President Obama at the White House earlier today: "President Obama let us know that he is happy to negotiate any and all budget matters. But these can only happen after the Republicans agree to open the government and raise our debt limit so we can pay our past debts. "We are all anxious for Speaker Boehner to bring up a clean bill in the House so we can pass it with a bipartisan majority." ###
10.07.2013	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement on the Defense Department’s recall of furloughed civilian employees, over the weekend: I’m very pleased that Secretary Hagel took action over the weekend to bring many of our dedicated Department of Defense civil servants back to work. Last week I wrote to Secretary Hagel, requesting that he bring those employees back to work to avoid the harm of the disastrous government shutdown triggered by the Republican House’s obstruction. While I am encouraged to see we are at least getting the dedicated Airmen at Youngstown Air Reserve and most of the Soldiers at Camp Ravenna back on the job to continue to provide for our national defense, it is time for Republican Speaker John Boehner to put a real government funding bill on the floor of the House so we get the entire government running again. ###
10.07.2013	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan today joined 200 Members of the House Democratic Caucus in sending a letter to Speaker John Boehner demanding a vote on behalf of the American people on the Senate-passed continuing resolution, which would reopen government and end the detrimental, five day long Republican Government Shutdown. "This is the right thing to do for our economy," said Congressman Tim Ryan. "We can have the fights and debate about the Affordable Care Act or any other issue. But those debates should be done with the government open and our bills being paid. The Tea party members of Congress need to join with their reasonable, pragmatic Republican colleagues who have called on them to abandon this reckless and futile attempt to repeal The Affordable Care Act. For a group of people who often wrap themselves in the Constitution of United States, I find it disconcerting that they would thumb their nose at the very legislative process the Founding Fathers asked us to adhere to." Enough House Republicans have come out in support of this bill that it could pass the House immediately with bipartisan support. ###
10.07.2013	Washington D.C. -- Congressman Tim Ryan commemorated National Manufacturing Day with a Special Order last evening on the Floor of the House of Representatives, along with several other members of the House Manufacturing Caucus. Congressman Ryan is founder and co-chairman of the House Manufacturing Caucus. “Manufacturing is the lifeblood of our economy, and the backbone of our middle class. The industry supports an estimated 17.2 million quality jobs nationwide, generates around 12 percent of our Gross Domestic Product, and makes-up two-thirds of our nation’s total goods and services exports,” said Congressman Ryan. Click Here The goal of the Manufacturing Caucus is to promote policies to strengthen American manufacturing. Some of the issues the Caucus focused on in this session were developing the manufacturing workforce for tomorrow, continuing to lead the world in developing new industrial technologies, operating on a level playing field with foreign competitors, and the importance of domestic manufacturing to the defense industrial base. ###
10.03.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan has issued the following statement in response to an effort by House Democrats to put a clean temporary spending bill on the floor of the House of Representatives: "Today's vote on ending the government shutdown laid bare the House Tea Party Republicans' hypocrisy and shamelessness. Republican Members of Congress were presented with an easy opportunity to vote in favor of a Senate-passed spending plan without any of the gimmicks or anti-healthcare amendments." "As a result of a Republican push to defeat the measure, an opportunity was missed to finally end this nonsense, and now the shutdown will continue."
10.02.2013	Washington DC – Congressman Ryan works to remediate the damage the government shutdown is causing to federal employees in the 13th Congressional district, particularly the Airmen at Youngstown Air Reserve Station (YARS). Yesterday, Congressman Ryan sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel and Office of Management and Budget Director Sylvia Burwell, questioning the government’s decision to furlough all non-exempt Department of Defense civilians, to include almost all of the Air Reserve Technicians at YARS, despite having the authority to keep paying them. Congressman Ryan has also co-sponsored a bill to ensure that all federal employees are eventually paid despite the government’s shutdown. “The Airmen at Youngstown Air Reserve Station, and other federal employees in our district, work hard every day to provide essential services critical to the general welfare and our common defense,” said Congressman Ryan. “Our federal workforce does not deserve to be punished solely because an extreme faction of the House Republicans has decided to defy the will of the American people and hold the government hostage. Providing them with retroactive compensation, as we have done in past shut-downs, would be a step in the right direction to restore faith with public servants like the Airmen at YARS who provide for our national security.” In an act of bipartisanship, which is becoming more and more rare, both the House and Senate passed the “Pay Our Military Act” unanimously, and the President signed it on September 30th. The law ensured that all military members would continue receiving pay, to include reservists who are performing active service. The law also allows the Secretary of Defense to continue paying civilian employees and contractors who are providing support to the Armed Forces. Congressman Ryan’s letter expressed that he was disheartened by the Administration’s decision to furlough most civilian employees, and also questioned whether furloughing uniformed dual-status technicians, like the Airmen at YARS, was in compliance with the intent of the law. While fighting against the furlough of YARS Airmen, Congressman Ryan also cosponsored the “Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act.” If the Senate passes its version as well, and the President signs it into law, it would ensure that all government employees will receive compensation for the government shutdown period. For example, even if the Airmen at YARS are continued in a furlough status, this Act would ensure they receive back-pay. Government employees had their pay frozen for the last three years, and suffered furloughs earlier this year due to sequestration. Text of letter to Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel and Office of Management and Budget Director Sylvia Burwell below: October 1, 2013 The Honorable Chuck Hagel Secretary of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1000 Mr. Rand Beers Secretary (Acting) Department of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. 20528 Sylvia Mathews Burwell Director The Office of Management and Budget 725 17th Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20503 Dear Secretary Hagel, Mr. Beers, Director Burwell, Thank you for your service to our great Nation and your commitment to those who defend the United States, their families, Department of Defense and U.S. Coast Guard civilians, and our veterans. I am writing today to draw your attention to an issue that negatively impacts the families of hundreds of thousands of Department of Defense and U.S. Coast Guard civilians around the world and has the potential to needlessly hurt our national security if not rectified immediately. On September 30, 2013 the Congress passed and President Obama subsequently signed into law H.R. 3210, which ensures that members of our Armed Forces (including reserve components), civilian personnel of the Department of Defense and U.S. Coast Guard, and contractors of the Department of Defense and U.S. Coast Guard will continue to be paid in the event of a lapse in appropriations during fiscal year 2014. While the President has ensured military members will continue to be paid during this government shutdown, we are disheartened that the Administration chose to needlessly furlough workers against the intent of Congress. The language outlined in H.R. 3210 purposefully exempts Department of Defense and U.S. Coast Guard employees supporting the Armed Forces. Since all DoD and U.S. Coast Guard civilian employees serve to support the uniformed services, all of these civilian employees should be returned to work without further delay. Additionally, the text of H.R. 3210 specifically includes all those “who perform active service.” The term “active service” is defined in current law as active-duty or full-time National Guard duty. This infers that, under H.R. 3210, all National Guard AGR and dual-status technicians would continue to be paid. Unfortunately, our understanding is the Department of Defense is interpreting “active service” as only those reservists who have been federalized, which would not be compatible with current law and breaks with the intent of H.R. 3210. Thank you for your attention on this matter and I look forward to the favor of your reply. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress ### Pat Lowry, Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
10.02.2013	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement today on the opening of the Health Insurance Marketplace: “Today is an important day for all Americans. The Affordable Care Act’s Marketplace is open and individuals in Ohio and across the nation can finally begin purchasing health insurance through the exchanges. People no longer have to worry about being denied quality health insurance due to a pre-existing medical condition. “Being a woman is no longer considered a liability due to the Affordable Care Act’s provisions preventing insurance companies from charging higher premiums for female patients. Women can also receive free preventive care, including mammograms, well-woman visits, and contraception services. “I am inspired by the 2.8 million visits to healthcare.gov and the 81,000 people who have already called the telephone hotline for information on the exchanges. Many families in my District can breathe easy today knowing that with the exchanges open, we can look forward to a future in which every American has the healthcare they need to stay healthy.”
09.30.2013	Congressman Ryan made the following statement in response to the impending shutdown of the United States government: I am shocked and dismayed that the Tea Party wing of the House Republican Conference has acted so recklessly in forcing a shutdown of the United States government. My colleagues and I were not sent to Washington to play political games, we were sent here to govern. These Republican extremists have held the US government hostage and wasted both time and money by obstructing a law that was passed over three years ago, signed by the President, and deemed Constitutional by the Supreme Court. Because Tea Party Republicans didn't get their way, they have decided to take their ball and go home. I stand by my rational, moderate Republican colleagues who know that shutting down the government in order to win political battles, is no way to govern. Rational Republican and Democrats can and must stand together and pass a clean resolution to fund the government. We cannot continue to allow this extreme faction of one party to rule our nation. A shutdown of the government will hurt the 1.4 million men and women in uniform who expect to be paid on time; government loans will not be available for middle-class families in rural communities; businesses will not be able to receive loans from the Small Business Administration; government research into environmental protections and cures for life-threatening diseases will be halted. These are just a few of the countless ways this unnecessary government shutdown will affected the American people. The solution is plain and simple – we must pass a clean continuing resolution to fund the government and put these petty differences aside for the better good of the United States of America. ### Pat Lowry, Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
09.27.2013	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan is announcing today that the Department of Health and Human Services, the Family and Youth Services Bureau has awarded Shelter care, Inc. of Tallmadge a Health Services Award in the amount of $187,160.00 to provide health services to their clients. Shelter Care is a residential treatment program for children between the ages of 6 and 18 with emotional, behavioral, or family adjustment issues.“Yet another one of our local organizations has distinguished themselves by receiving this federal grant," said Congressman Ryan. “Shelter care Inc has saved a lot of young lives over the years and I can’t think of a more worthy organization to receive this award.” The mission of the Family and Youth Services Bureau (FYSB) is to promote safety, stability and well-being for people who have experienced or been exposed to violence, neglect or trauma. FYSB supports programs that provide shelter, community services and prevention education for youth, adults and families and works closely and collaboratively with a number of agencies both within the Department of Health and Human Services and across the government. # # # Pat Lowry, Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
09.26.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan and Congressman Tom Reed, co-Chairs of the House Manufacturing Caucus, are happy to announce that with the addition of Congressman Joe Kennedy III (MA—4), the Caucus has now reached 100 members. Founded in 2003 by Congressman Ryan and Congressman Don Manzullo of Illinois—the House Manufacturing Caucus works to provide the vision and tools for manufacturing to prosper across the nation. The Caucus also highlights the vital role American manufacturing plays in the U.S. economy as well as educates members and their staff on ways Congress can work together to ensure that America remains the most successful competitor in global manufacturing.“The House Manufacturing Caucus reaching 100 members is more than a milestone; it signifies an expansive and expanding opportunity to educate staff and members on the importance of manufacturing,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “We have to formulate manufacturing policies that will ensure our domestic defense capabilities, make sure our workforce is trained to fill the jobs of the future, and educate our children to build robots, design and produce new products with cutting-edge technology like 3D printers. A large and diverse membership on the House Manufacturing Caucus will strengthen our ability to promote American manufacturing.” “Our efforts on the House Manufacturing Caucus are all about improving communication between manufacturers and Congress so that we can create an environment that brings more manufacturing jobs to districts across the United States,” said Congressman Reed. “The more participation and engagement we have, the better equipped we will be as a voice and resource for manufacturers – a group whose success is vital to our country’s ability to make a strong economic recovery. I am confident the Caucus will only continue to grow as more come to realize manufacturers’ full potential.” “This country’s manufacturing base lies at the epicenter of efforts to address some of our greatest economic challenges,” said Congressman Kennedy. “From still-stubborn unemployment rates to trade deficits and income inequality: a national manufacturing policy is essential to putting this country back on solid economic footing. I’m honored to join the House Manufacturing Caucus today and look forward to being an active part of their efforts moving forward.” Congressman Kennedy and Congressman Reed introduced the bipartisan Revitalize American Manufacturing and Innovation Act of 2013 (RAMI). This legislation, supported by Congressman Ryan, would create a network of regional institutes across the country, each focused on a unique technology, material, or process relevant to advanced manufacturing. Maintaining a strong domestic manufacturing capability is also a national security issue, and the House Manufacturing Caucus can be a key resource for ensuring that we have a domestic supply chain that can singularly support national defense needs in all contingencies. As manufacturing led the nation out of the Great Depression, advanced manufacturing and the innovations that come from it will help us lead our nation into a manufacturing renaissance that will provide opportunity for our young people to live, work, and prosper.
09.23.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan today issued the following statement congratulating the National Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute (NAMII) and the National Center for Defense Manufacturing and Machining (NCDMM) for receiving a $5 million grant award from the U.S. Department of Commerce’s National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) for further additive manufacturing research: “I’m pleased to congratulate NAMII on winning a $5 million grant for a “collaborative research effort” that includes major universities like Georgia Tech and Carnegie Mellon, companies like General Electric and Youngstown’s own M7 Technologies, and two national laboratories, Oak Ridge and Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. The leadership and staff at NAMII and NCDMM, who have made huge progress in making NAMII the go-to place for additive manufacturing. “As we face difficult decisions in the next few weeks on funding the government, NAMII is a great example of investments being made that provide jobs and increase the quality of life for Americans.” ###
09.20.2013	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan today voted no on H.R.3102, the Nutrition Reform and Work Opportunity Act, a cynical and mean-spirited attempt by the Republican majority to cut the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits by $40 billion over the next 10 years. Instead of working to create jobs here at home, Republicans are promoting legislation that hurts Americans who are still looking for work, some in places with unemployment rates of 10 percent or more. With almost two million fewer jobs than at the start of the recession, SNAP currently has work requirements which can be waived by the states during times of high unemployment. Forty-six states – including almost every Republican Governor - have sought waivers to provide SNAP benefits for those looking for work. This bill does not allow work requirement waivers.“The fact of the matter is nearly 50 million people in this country struggle to feed themselves and their families,” said Congressman Ryan. “As a result, these people depend on programs like SNAP to rescue them from chronic hunger. My Republican colleagues would have you believe that the majority of people who utilize SNAP benefits are abusing the system. That is simply not true” Over 1.8 million SNAP recipients in the state of Ohio receive an average of $138.60, about $4.50 per day. Our economy is growing, but we still have too many people in Ohio who are struggling with economic issues. Across the nation, forty-five percent of SNAP recipients are children, 62% of the adult recipients are women, many of whom are single mothers, and four million senior citizens are enrolled in SNAP. If signed into law, this bill would remove 210,000 children from the free lunch program at their schools and would harm low-income veterans by jeopardizing food aid for the estimated 170,000 veterans who receive SNAP benefits. This bill is opposed by the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, American Baptist Churches, Presbyterian Church, National Association of Evangelicals, Bread for the World, Feeding America, No Kid Hungry, AARP, Council on Aging, NAACP, National Congress of American Indians, and the National Farmers Union.
09.16.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan asked numerous questions in a Congressional hearing on the Treasury Department’s role in the Delphi pension loss, calling for an extension of the Health Care Tax Credit for Delphi retirees—and suggesting that in light of the Delphi situation that the country’s bankruptcy laws need to be reformed. “I do not believe that Congress or the retirees still have a complete picture of what happened in this situation, said Congressman Ryan. “If it’s determined through evidence produced here or in a court of law that the Delphi salaried retirees—and the splinter unions—were unjustly harmed due to politics or favoritism, then they must be made whole and I will continue to advocate for that position.” Click Here For Delphi Hearing Video The hearing took place last week in the Oversight/Government Operations Subcommittee. In addition to committee members, also participating in the hearing were Christy Romero, Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP); Barbara Bovbeirg and Nicole Clowers, from the U.S. Government Accountability; Matthew Feldman, the former Chief Legal Advisor for the Treasury Department’s Auto Team; Steven Rattner, former lead auto advisor for the Treasury Department; Harry Wilson, former Senior Advisor to the Secretary of the Treasury; and Harvey Miller, a bankruptcy attorney. Congressman Ryan has introduced legislation that would allow the Delphi Salaried retirees and other retirees who are receiving PBGC pensions, the opportunity to continue receiving health coverage tax credits through the HCTC program which would otherwise terminate completely at the end of this year. ###
09.13.2013	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in support of National Suicide Prevention Week: “This week marks National Suicide Prevention Week, a time in which all Americans are encouraged to seek out and spread information on ways to prevent suicide. According to a study conducted by the American Journal of Public Health, the suicide rate has gone up 15% in the past decade. As a result of this spike, suicide has replaced death by automobile accident as the number one cause of injury related mortality in the U.S. “I am deeply saddened by this recent increase in suicides. Whether it is the family of a bullied teen who has lost their will to live or a family of a military veteran who succumbed to the burdens of war, we must be vigilant in seeing to it that these people receive the help that they so desperately need. As a nation and as a community, we must come together to combat this epidemic of preventable death. To do that, we must educate ourselves on what the warning signs and risk factors are for people who may be suicidal, and learn the tasks we must perform that may save a life.” Anyone may call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline, available 24/7, at 1-800-273-8255.
09.12.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan is announcing today that Camp Ravenna Joint Military Training Center is one of five sites being considered by the Department of Defense and the Missile Defense Agency as an interceptor deployment site, a ground-based system designed to intercept ballistic missiles. The Missile Defense Agency will gather additional information about the site, including an on-site visit, before deciding which sites will advance to the next round of consideration. Sites that are selected for further consideration will undergo environmental studies which will take an additional 18-24 months. “This would be a great opportunity for Camp Ravenna and the State of Ohio to benefit from Department of Defense investments, leading to increased employment in both the construction phase and sustaining operational employment,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “While no final decision will be made for some time, I am pleased that we are one of the sites being considered.” The 2013 National Defense Authorization Act requires a siting study and Environmental Impact Statement. Other sites being considered include Camp Ethan Allen Training site in Vermont, NAS Portsmouth SERE Training Area in Maine, Fort Custer CTC in Michigan, and Fort Drum, New York. # # #
09.11.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today announced a grant of $169,190 to be awarded to Eastgate Regional Council of Governments from the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Economic Development Administration. The funds will be allocated to establish an economic development framework, process, and strategy that supports private capital investment and job creation in the region. “This is a perfect example of the great work that can be done when the public and private sector come together to improve the economic well being of the community. These types of investments which are mutually beneficial to all the parties involved and we should be ramping them up across the country. This grant will build upon our past successes and continue the economic renaissance in our region,” said Congressman Ryan. This EDA planning investment supports the development and implementation of a comprehensive economic development strategy (CEDS) for the region served by the Eastgate Regional Council of Governments, which comprises the counties of Ashtabula, Mahoning, and Trumbull. The process is designed to bring together the public and private sectors in the creation of an economic development roadmap to diversify and strengthen the regional economy. ###
09.10.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to Former Ohio Governor Ted Strickland’s appointment as Alternate Representative of the United States to the 68th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations and Former Youngstown Mayor Jay Williams’ appointment as Assistant Secretary for Economic Development at the Department of Commerce: Today President Obama has selected two great Ohioans to serve the United States on both the national and international stages. Both Ted Strickland and Jay Williams have selflessly pursued a career in public service, and every Ohioan and American is better off because of the contributions they have made, and will continue to make for the United States. Governor Ted Strickland has been my friend since my earliest days as a Congressional candidate, and I am not surprised that the President has chosen him for this important position at the United Nations. He has a long record of public service—and I had the great privilege of serving with him in the House of Representatives and working closely with him during his tenure as governor. Through his long and illustrious career Ted has always served the people of the State of Ohio with dedication and hard work, and I know he will continue to do the same for his country and the international community. I am delighted that my friend Jay Williams has been appointed to this important position. President Obama couldn’t have chosen a better or more qualified person to take over the immense responsibility that comes with this job. Whether it was as Mayor of Youngstown or Director of Recovery for Auto Communities and Workers at the Department of Labor, Jay has consistently impressed and exceeded expectations, and I am certain he will find success in his newest endeavor as he works to better the lives of Ohioans and Americans across the United States. I look forward to continuing our working partnership in the effort to bring the same successes we have seen in Northeast Ohio to the nation. ###
09.10.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan applauds Dr. Janine Janosky, Vice President and Senior Fellow for the Center for Community Health Improvement at the Austen BioInnovation Institute in Akron, Ohio (ABIA) for being recognized by the White House as one of eight local Heroes who are “Champions of Change” for prevention and public health. This elite honor has been reserved for those who inspire healthy change in the heart of their communities by encouraging preventive screenings, reducing health disparities, promoting physical activity and healthy eating or fighting healthcare acquired infections. “I extend my deepest congratulation to Dr. Janosky for receiving this distinguished honor. The work being done by Dr. Janosky and the ABIA is helping to make our neighbors in Akron healthier each and every day,” said Congressman Ryan. “Diabetes has quickly become one of our nation’s most expensive and detrimental diseases with over 25.8 million children and adults in the United States impacted. Programs like these are yet another example of how the Affordable Care Act is making great strides to improve the health and lives of Americans all across the United States. The ABIA’s goal is to increase and broker collaborations among various sectors in the community to increase health in Northeast Ohio. In their first 18 months the program focused on diabetes and it saw more than half of its participants lose weight and lower body mass indexes. Additionally, in participants with diabetes they found in a decrease in average cost of care and a decrease in the number of diabetes-related Emergency visits. This program is part of the Accountable Care Community initiative and is an integrated health and wellness model supported by a Community Transformation Grant from the Affordable Care Act’s Prevention and Public Health Fund. Previously, Dr. Janosky served as the Vice Provost for Research at Central Michigan University and as an Executive Director and Inaugural Leader for the Center for Primary Care Community-Based Research at the University of Pittsburgh. ###
09.10.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to Forbes magazine’s inclusion of the University of Akron, Hiram College, Kent State University, the University of Mount Union and Youngstown State University in their list of America’s Top Colleges for 2013: I extend my deepest congratulations to our local universities and colleges for receiving this highly regarded achievement. Students, staff and alumni should be proud of the work they did in building the reputations of these local institutions and the great honor that has been bestowed upon them. This is yet another example of how lucky we are in Northeast Ohio to have such reputable institutions in our backyard that continue to achieve academic excellence day in and day out. These universities and colleges are paving that way forward for our children to contribute and build upon the advancements of our local region. ### Pat Lowry, Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
09.03.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today commemorating Labor Day: Each year we set Labor Day aside to honor working Americans who made our country what it is today. These hard-working men and women drive our economy and strengthen the well-being and prosperity of the United States. It is especially important to recognize this important holiday during a time of constant attacks on labor rights in Ohio and across the country. Working Americans are the back-bone of our nation and we must not yield in the protection of these rights earned in the hard-fought labor movement. It is crucial to reinforce workers’ fair pay, health security, retirement and safe working conditions needed to ensure a strong America. ###
08.28.2013	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in recognition of the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington and Reverend Martin Luther King Jr.’s iconic “I Have a Dream” Speech:“Today marks a truly historic day in American history. The March on Washington was the culmination of decades of marches, sit-ins, rallies, and protests – all in the pursuit of civil and economic equality. While we have come a long way towards realizing Reverend King’s ‘Dream’ over the past 50 years, inequality still exists in our country. We cannot stand by while states pass voting laws that make it more difficult for some to cast their ballots. Reverend King showed us the path forward, but we must continue to progress and ensure that we live in a country that is fair and just for all Americans, regardless of the color of their skin.” ###
08.27.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to the passing of former Governor John J. Gilligan: I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of former Governor John J. Gilligan. I have had the great privilege of working closely with his daughter, Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius. Governor Gilligan led an extraordinary life dedicated to family and public service. I extend to my deepest sympathies to Secretary Sebelius and the entire Gilligan family. ###
08.23.2013	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today regarding a federal magistrate judge’s ruling this week that the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. (PBGC) must cooperate with Delphi salaried retirees and produce previously withheld documents relevant to their lawsuit:“I am pleased that a federal judge has stepped in and directed that PBGC must produce the documents necessary to move to the next stage of this lawsuit. Many of the Delphi salaried retirees are experiencing continued economic hardship following the collapse of their former employer. It has been a long process to obtain these documents and retirees have been waiting on the sidelines for far too long. I am thankful that this release of documents can finally move forward so we can get the answers these retirees need.” # # #
08.19.2013	Congressman Ryan made the following statement in response to new regulations issued by Department of Defense to combat sexual assault in the military; which included language from the Ryan-Granger Combating Military Sexual Assault Act of 2013 to provide victims with expert counsel throughout the legal process: I would like to thank Secretary Hagel for taking these important steps to combat sexual assault in our armed forces. I am pleased that Department of Defense reforms included providing survivors of sexual assault much needed legal counsel as required by my bill. I am optimistic that these services will maximize counsels ability to represent victims' interests. But there is no silver bullet to solve this large of a problem and more will need to be done before we start to see light at the end of the tunnel. I intend to continue to work tirelessly on this issue and utilize my position on the Appropriations Defense Subcommittee to finally bring this epidemic to an end. ###
08.16.2013	Congressman Ryan announced today $25,000 in Rural Development grants from the Department of Agriculture. Frank Lonardo’s Greenhouse of Youngstown has received a grant of $13,045 to install a solar PV system (solar generator), which will generate 9,765kWh’s of energy. Stroup Farms, Inc. of Atwater has received a grant of $11,791 to replace an inefficient grain dryer, saving them 89,328KWh’s of energy. “Making these types of investments are crucial if we want to move forward as a nation and decrease our reliance on foreign oil. These energy-efficient upgrades will save money for local businesses in our community and make them more environmentally sustainable,” said Congressman Ryan. These funds were part of the Rural Energy for America Program and are for the purpose of assisting farmers, ranchers, and rural small businesses in developing renewable energy systems and making energy-efficient improvements to their operations. ###
08.07.2013	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan announces today that the Akron Regional Transit Authority will receive a $1,472,000.00 Federal Transit Administration grant. This grant is part of the State of Good Repair Program and recipients were selected on a competitive basis. The funds will be used to purchase fifteen buses. “These transportation services are utilized everyday across our community and I couldn’t be more pleased that the Akron Regional Transit Authority has secured this grant,” said Congressman Ryan. “These funds will give our seniors, our workers, and our students better access to transportation services across Summit County – making this program both practical and environmentally efficient. This discretionary grant was a part of the State of Good Repair Program issued by the Federal Transit Administration of the Department of Transportation. These funds were set aside in grants to help modernize and repair the nation’s transit buses and facilities as well as to promote sustainable clean fuel practices. The program was created to assist President Obama’s An America Built to Last Campaign. Over six million members of our community use METRO services yearly. This safe and convenient method of transportation helps the citizens of Summit County travel to school and work while also promoting local business. METRO also provides bus services to Canton and Cleveland. ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
08.05.2013	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Ryan announces today that the City of Warren will receive $1,553,089.00 in Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Grants. “I am happy to announce that the City of Warren has received this important funding. This money will give our community safer, quality housing and expanded economic opportunities for our neighbors,” said Congressman Ryan. “It is important that we keep our cities and towns moving forward, but it is equally important that we do not leave those who need us most behind.” Warren has received a Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) in the amount of $1,109,402.00. The CDBG program provides annual grants to develop urban communities by providing decent housing and suitable living environments; as well as, providing low and moderate income people expanded economic opportunities. Warren has also received a HOME program grant in the amount of $443,687.00. The Home program funds housing programs in state and local communities with the goal of expanding the supply of decent and affordable housing for low and very low income families. ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
08.01.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan announced today that Youngstown Neighborhood Development Corporation is the recipient of a grant from the U.S. Department of Agriculture in the amount of $296,816.00. The grant, part of the National Institute of Food and Agriculture’s (NIFA) Community Food Project, will be used to teach food entrepreneurship in Youngstown. The goals of the Community Food Projects are to help meet the food needs of low-income people and increase self-reliance of communities in providing for their own food needs. “The Youngstown Neighborhood Development Corporation has shown itself to be a real community leader, and this grant will help them develop new training strategies for local food production and preparation and increase healthy food options to those who do not have fresh food readily available. ” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Federal investments like these are necessary to spur economic growth and provide good paying, sustainable jobs in our local communities. Presley Gillespie, Executive Director of Youngstown Neighborhood Development Corporation added, “We are honored to receive this highly competitive and substantial grant from the USDA. This critical funding will allow us to significantly expand our initiatives to train and encourage residents from neighborhoods across our city to start new food-based businesses and market gardens on vacant land. We believe that expanding successful food-based businesses will increase jobs and employment opportunities for low-income residents, develop sustainable entrepreneurship opportunities, grow our local urban economy over the long term, and become fresh local food sources; all while transforming abandoned land into attractive urban enterprises.” The National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) is an agency within the U.S. Department of Agriculture and works to improve agricultural productivity, create new products, promote human nutrition and health, and revitalize rural American communities. # # #
07.31.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan announced today that the Brazilian government has revoked Claudia Hoerig’s Brazilian citizenship—the first step in the process of extraditing her to the United States to stand trial for the 2007 murder of her husband, U.S. Air Force Reserve Major Karl Hoerig. The announcement comes shortly after legislative efforts by Congressman Ryan garnered international attention to the case. Until now, Brazil’s refusal to extradite any of its own citizens has been the main barrier towards extraditing Claudia. Congressman Ryan had petitioned Brazil to revoke Claudia’s citizenship so the extradition could move forward. Major Karl Hoerig was found shot to death in his Newton Falls home on March 15, 2007. Claudia Hoerig fled to her native Brazil to evade arrest and trial by taking advantage of Brazil’s constitutional provision prohibiting the extradition of its citizens. She became a naturalized citizen of the U.S. in September 1999 but continued to claim her Brazilian citizenship. “For over six years, Claudia Hoerig has lived as a free citizen in Brazil despite being accused of murdering her husband, Major Karl Hoerig, in cold blood,” said Congressman Ryan. “With the help of Karl’s family, a dedicated group of his supporters and Trumbull County Prosecutor Dennis Watkins and his team, I have worked hard to bring Claudia Hoerig back to the United States to face prosecution for murder. Karl Hoerig flew nearly 200 combat missions in Iraq and Afghanistan. Now it is our duty to honor his memory and service to our country by seeking justice for him and his family members.” Since the time Claudia fled to Brazil, Congressman Ryan has been relentless in pursuing justice for Karl Hoerig’s family. Ryan has introduced a bill and a companion amendment to this year’s Homeland Security Appropriations bill to suspend visas for Brazilian nationals and he also introduced legislation that suspends foreign aid to Brazil until Claudia is returned. Ryan’s measure to suspend visas made headlines across the U.S. and Brazil—bringing significant attention to the case in Claudia’s native country. In addition, Congressman Ryan has written many letters over the years to both the George W. Bush and Barack Obama Administrations and multiple Brazilian officials.“I am very encouraged to see such progress finally being made in this case,” added Congressman Ryan, “and I will continue to monitor the cooperation of the Brazilian government until justice is served. While I remain hopeful that we are one step nearer to achieving some measure of closure for family of Karl Hoerig, we must be mindful that no matter the fate of Claudia Hoerig, our community and the Hoerig family has lost a hero and a model citizen.” # # #
07.30.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan today released written testimony he submitted to the National Commission on the Structure of the Air Force, asking them to reverse the planned force reduction at the Youngstown Air Reserve Station (YARS). The testimony also stated that it would be more efficient to have 16 aircraft at YARS, and that this would be to the benefit of both the Air Force and our national security.The letter follows: Dear Members of the Commission: As a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and representative of a U.S. Air Force installation, I admire and share your deeply held concern for the well-being of the Air Force. I understand that the Air Force is being forced to make tough decisions about force structure. I further understand that our national leadership is doing all it can to avoid the degradation of Air Force capabilities. I write to you today to express my strong support for the unique capabilities and opportunities at the Youngstown Air Reserve Station (YARS) and to urge your panel to consider a reversal of current downsizing trends at YARS and to take full advantage of its resources. In FY 2011 the Air Force Reserve directed YARS to loan two tails to Little Rock Air Force Base to support the AFRC training mission. However, those two tails remained part of the YARS inventory for manning purposes. The Air Force now plans to not only to remove these two loaned aircraft from YARS’s books, but also transfer an additional aircraft out of YARS, and convert one of the remaining nine aircraft to Backup Aircraft Inventory (BAI), taking YARS from 12 Primary Aircraft Authorizations (PAA) to 8 PAA. This loss of four PAA will also negatively impact the manpower authorizations at YARS. I am also deeply concerned about the operational impact of the Air Force’s force structure plan at YARS. YARS offers a unique capability, being the Department of Defense’s only large area fixed-wing aerial spray capability to control disease-carrying insects, pest insects, undesirable vegetation and to disperse oil spills in large bodies of water. DoDI 4150.07, DoD Pest Management Program, May 29, 2008, paragraph 5.5, requires the Secretary of the Air Force to maintain an aerial spray capability. YARS performs its unique and necessary aerial spray mission, and also supports other DoD airlift requirements, in an outstanding manner. I am concerned that the planned forced structure moves may endanger YARS spray capability and its ability to support other operations. In addition, while the PB13 force structure plan would have also reduced the PAA at YARS to eight, it would have at least upgraded the inventory from a mix of H2 and H2.5 to all H2.5. The current plan leaves us with a mix, and fewer overall aircraft. YARS has the infrastructure to support 16 C-130s. It would be far more efficient for the Air Force to house 16 aircraft at YARS, instead of only 8. I urge you to consider including in your recommendations a reversal of the planned force structure reduction at YARS. Increasing the number of aircraft at YARS would not only benefit my community, but would benefit the Air Force and our national security. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress ### Pat Lowry, Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
07.30.2013	Washington DC – Congressman Ryan recognized the 48th anniversary of Medicare and Medicaid today and defended the benefits guaranteed through the Affordable Care Act. In 1965, prior to the enactment of Medicare, half of all seniors were uninsured – today there are 42 million seniors and 9 million people with disabilities receiving guaranteed benefits. House Republicans are celebrating this anniversary by voting on bill this week to repeal the Affordable Care Act for the 40th time, which would severely weaken Medicare. The Department of Health and Human Services released new information that shows a strengthened Medicare program thanks to the Affordable Care Act. In Ohio seniors have already saved $350 million on prescription drugs because of the Affordable Care Act. In 2012, 903,150 Ohioans on Medicare have received one or more preventative services for free. The same year, Ohioans in the “Donut Hole” received a 50% reduction on the cost of brand name prescriptions and a 14% reduction in generic prescriptions. “It amazes me that as we celebrate the 48th anniversary of Medicare, House Republicans have decided to take up a bill that will severely weaken it in countless ways. Repealing the Affordable Care Act will open the ‘Donut Hole’ back-up, take free preventative services away, and increase the cost of prescription drugs for our seniors,” said Congressman Ryan. “Medicare has been a life-saver for seniors in Ohio and across the nation and it is not the time to rollback cost saving initiatives that are making healthcare cheaper in America. Nationwide, 6.6 million Americans on Medicare have saved $7 billion since the Affordable Care Act was signed into law. The new health law has cracked down on fraud and abuse by $15 billion and has extended the Medicare Trust Fund’s solvency by 8 years. In 2012 alone, over 34 million seniors received at least one preventative service. The Affordable Care Act also closes the Part D prescription “Donut Hole”, which has saved 6.3 million seniors more than $6.1 billion. ### Pat Lowry, Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
07.25.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement today in response to the Appointment of Former Ohio Congresswoman Betty Sutton to the position of Administrator, Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation by President Obama: “I am pleased that my friend and former colleague Congresswoman Betty Sutton has been appointed as an Administrator to the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation. It is great to have an Ohioan administering the Seaway, an important transportation system that enhances trade and provides economic development for much of the region. After serving with Betty for 6 years in Congress, I believe she is an excellent choice and will help keep commerce moving on the Great Lakes.” ###
07.25.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan today voted in support of the 2014 Defense Appropriations Act, a bill that included two amendments supported by Congressman Ryan that would exempt Department of Defense (DoD) civilian employees and Air Reserve Technicians from furloughs, including those who work at the Youngstown Air Reserve Station (YARS). The bill still must pass the Senate and be signed by the President before taking effect. “This bill provides the funding that our military needs, and I strongly support the provisions that will keep our civilian workers on the job at the YARS, said Congressman Tim Ryan. “We need to end sequester across the board—not only in defense, but in our domestic programs. I share the President’s concerns about the inability of this Congress to put together a comprehensive budget framework for the middle class. We cannot continue to cut investments in research, education, and infrastructure that are important to expanding our economy and creating jobs. We need our economy to be as strong as our defense. ” The bill incorporated a number of provisions championed by Congressman Ryan, including funding the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response programs (SAPRO) and providing mental health resources to address the issue of suicide in the military. It provided additional funds to ensure that survivors of sexual assault in all the services are provided personal legal representation, one of Congressman Ryan’s legislative initiatives. In addition, the spending bill provides an increase in technology funding that would allow students to remotely access advanced cyber-enabled additive manufacturing equipment, and a provision that would encourage the Army and Marine Corps to pursue implementation of skills based resiliency training in order to prevent post-traumatic stress and enhance our service member’s ability to perform in combat. The bill also includes a 1.8% increase in active duty pay; enhancements to embassy security; investments in health services and medical research. Finally, the bill provides additional funds beyond those requested in the President’s budget request to allow the National Guard and Reserve to procure high-priority equipment for both combat missions and for missions in support of state governors. ### Pat Lowry, Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
07.23.2013	Washington DC – Yesterday, Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Congressman Mike Turner (R-OH) introduced H.R. 2783, legislation which provides Delphi retirees and other eligible individuals the choice of continuing within the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) program past the program’s December 31, 2013 termination date or leaving the program. Current law—enacted as part of the Affordable Care Act—terminates the HCTC program at the end of this year. H.R. 2783 extends the HCTC program for currently-enrolled participants, so long as the participants are receiving PBGC pensions and there are no breaks in their coverage.“It is crucial that we do not leave behind these hardworking Americans, like the Delphi Retirees, many of whom have had their pensions and healthcare significantly reduced through no fault of their own,” said Congressman Ryan. “Congress has the opportunity to extend the Health Coverage Tax Credit program to ensure that those who had their earned heath benefits stripped from them continue to receive the affordable coverage they deserve.” Current enrollees who are eligible for HCTC as a result of receiving Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) would not be grandfathered into the program, nor would new enrollees be allowed after December 31, 2013.
07.19.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to the House passage of H.R. 5, The Student Success Act: “With a list of opposing organizations too long to print, House Republicans have once again ventured down a lonely road—passing another bill that will never become law—this time gutting education by nearly $1 billion annually. This bill fails to provide adequate safeguards for our students and removes accountability provisions meant to ensure a quality education for every American student. “As expected, Congressional Republicans have removed protections for collective bargaining, eliminated funding for several school initiatives, and dismantles school accountability for those children who need it the most. This is an outright partisan bill that lets our students down and devastates our entire education system. We must do better.” ### Pat Lowry, Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
07.18.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan is announcing today that Kent State University is to receive a grant of $134,535 from the National Science Foundation (NSF). The project is entitled “Geographies of Health and Medical Programs in a Conflict-society” and it is a part of the NSF’s Geography and Spatial Sciences Program. The grant will fund two Kent State graduate students and one undergraduate student’s research between August 1, 2013 and April 30, 2015. “I am proud that this grant has been awarded to Kent State, and with their outstanding record in academic research this funding will certainly go a long way,” said Congressman Ryan. “Advancements in research and education are necessary to stay competitive on a global scale; that is why it is crucial that the federal government continue to make these investments into America’s future.” ### Pat Lowry, Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
07.18.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan today, for the 38th time, voted against two Republican bills that would essentially repeal the Affordable Care Act. H.R. 2667 and H.R. 2668 are irresponsible bills that provide no jobs and no budget solutions. The Affordable Care Act has already improved many aspects of the nation's health care system and House passage of these bills will not change that. These two bills have no chance of being voted on in the U.S. Senate—and the President has already pledged to veto both of them if they should come to his desk. “Once again during this Congress, my Republican colleagues have set out on an extreme mission, this time to re-argue a bill that has already helped millions of Americans, including those who can no longer be denied coverage for pre-existing conditions and those young adults who can now stay on their parents’ plan until the age of 26,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Ohio needs jobs—and my Republican colleagues have countless times turned their backs on the men and women of northeastern Ohio who are struggling to make ends meet.” House Republicans continue their efforts to try to repeal, obstruct and undermine the Affordable Care Act by limiting access to affordable coverage for 129 million Americans with pre-existing conditions; by taking away the guarantee that women will pay the same premiums as men for the same coverage; and by taking away the cap for out-of-pocket health care costs. Congressman Ryan added, “The Affordable Care Act is now the law of the land, has been upheld by the Supreme Court, and is already helping millions of Americans. Instead of playing political games with legislation that they know is going nowhere, let’s pass a jobs bill and do the work we were sent here to do.” ### Pat Lowry, Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
07.17.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement on Richard Cordray’s Confirmation as Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau: “Finally we’ll have a permanent cop on the Wall Street beat,” said Congressman Ryan. “I couldn’t be more pleased that the Senate has voted to bring an end to this absurd two-year waiting game brought on by the Republican Party. Whether he was serving as Ohio Solicitor General, Treasurer or Attorney General, Rich has always been, and will continue to be, a tireless advocate for justice. Rich understands the great responsibility that comes with this position and I am certain he will continue to protect American consumers and ensure that we don’t continue the same policies and practices that brought us to the brink of a second Great Depression.” ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
07.12.2013	Warren, Ohio – This week, Congressman Tim Ryan cosponsored H.R. 2553, the National Infrastructure Development Bank Act, a bill that would establish a much-needed infrastructure bank able to consider eligible projects, provide financing, and create good jobs to help rebuild the U.S. economy. In Youngstown, Warren, Alliance, Kent and Akron, our roads, bridges, rails and sewer systems need work, and the longer we wait to fix them the costlier these projects will become. The American Society of Civil Engineers reports that the United States must spend $3.6 trillion by 2020 to repair our infrastructure. Currently we are spending less than 40% of what is necessary to maintain our existing physical infrastructure. More than 25% of bridges in the United States either need significant repairs or are handling more traffic than they were originally designed to carry. There are over 4,000 American dams that are considered “unsafe”. The overburdened electrical grid has resulted in rolling blackouts and annual losses of $80 billion. The United States’ aging sewer systems spill over one trillion gallons of untreated sewage annually that results in cleanup costs of $50 billion a year. The Federal Highway Administration estimates that bad roads play a role in more than 14,300 traffic fatalities annually. “We must act now on this vital legislation if we want the United States remain a leader in global innovation. India and China are spending seven to nine percent of their GDP on infrastructure, while our country is spending only two,” said Congressman Ryan. “Infrastructure investments spur economic development by making areas safe and attractive for new businesses. Our energy grids are failing, our sewers are leaking, and our roads and bridges are crumbling. With interest rates at historically low levels, now is the time to reinvest in America. ” This legislation creates a National Infrastructure Development Bank, which will be a government-owned corporation headed by a Board of Directors. The Bank will develop merit-based criteria for project selection, consider eligible projects and provide financing for selected projects. The National Infrastructure Development Bank concept is supported by labor, finance, business and environmental communities, President Obama, and a bipartisan group of governors and mayors. ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
07.12.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement on H.R. 2642, The Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management (FARRM), which barely passed the House of Representatives today on a party-line vote: “The Farm Bill has received bipartisan support for decades and the fact that the Republicans who control the House of Representatives are unable to pass a cohesive, bipartisan version is not only embarrassing and disheartening but also illustrates just how dysfunctional this Republican-led Congress has become. With this Republican leadership, we have reached a new low when we cannot even come to an agreement on how to act in the interest of our farmers and those afflicted by hunger in this country. What are we accomplishing by putting so much energy into a bill that will certainly fail in the Senate? It is instances like this that put the poor leadership of the majority party and the resulting gridlock on display for the world to see.” Splitting off provisions of the Farm Bill such as the Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program (SNAP), which helps feed hungry families across America, accomplishes nothing more than the abandonment of the interests of those most in need of our help. Republicans have referred to these provisions as “extraneous” and in doing so have turned their backs on American families that depend on food and nutrition programs. Seventy-five percent of families receiving benefits include children as well as elderly and disabled people.” Instead of having an adult discussion about how imperative it is to reevaluate our food policies so that they address the growing health needs of our country, we have defaulted back to the destructive politics that have engulfed our Capitol for too many years. All the while, our nation’s health, with unsustainable rates of obesity, will suffer because of it. We need to support good health and sustainable agriculture—and this bill fails to do that. This cannot be about partisanship. Congress must first see to the needs of the American people and not disregard this responsibility." # # #
07.11.2013	Washington – Congressman Tim Ryan yesterday voted against the Energy and Water Appropriations (H.R. 2609), a bill that reduced essential energy and water infrastructure investments. The $30.4 billion bill cuts $2.9 billion from 2013 levels and is $4.1 billion below President Obama’s budget request. This bill is another example of House Republicans ignoring the real issues facing the nation, creating jobs and growing the economy—and passing bills that have no chance of becoming law. “The House of Representatives could have passed a bill that would combat invasive species in the Great Lakes region and across the nation, aid our coastal communities in preparing for hurricane season, and continue to make progress towards a future in which energy needs are met by American-made clean and renewable energy,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “This is the way to expand our economy, increase national security, fuel domestic manufacturing and get Americans and Ohioans back to work. Unfortunately, we missed that opportunity” This partisan bill, which President Obama said he would veto, makes devastating cuts to a broad range of renewable energy programs, including: solar, wind, energy grids and research into new technologies for energy efficient cars, homes, schools and businesses. At the same time, the bill protects tax-breaks for Big Oil. ### Pat Lowry, Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
07.10.2013	Washington – Congressman Tim Ryan announced today that One Health Ohio (formerly Ohio North East Health Systems Inc.) who operate clinics in Youngstown, Warren and Alliance has been awarded a $127,937 grant from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). This grant will be used for the purpose of hiring additional employees to assist with outreach and enrollment efforts for uninsured Ohioans eligible for new health coverage options though the Affordable Care Act. “I am pleased to announce that this grant will make it easier for Youngstown, Warren and Alliance residents to take full advantage of the Affordable Care Act and get the best health care coverage available,” said Congressman Ryan. “The Affordable Care Act will be transformational for our state and country and this grant will help Ohioans understand their options and receive the coverage they deserve.” The HHS has announced $150 Million will be awarded to 1,159 community health centers across the United States – grants were awarded in all 50 states. Health centers are expected to hire 2,900 employees nationwide to assist in the Affordable Care Act outreach and enrollment efforts. Health centers serve 21 million people annually, enabling them to help many Americans understand the coverage options through the new Health Insurance Marketplace, Medicaid expansion and the Children’s Health Insurance Program. These community health center grants, coupled with the new user-friendly HealthCare.gov website and the 24-hour-a-day consumer call center will give Ohioans and Americans the resources necessary to understand their health insurance options when open-enrollment for the Health Insurance Marketplace begins October 1, 2013 and coverage begins January 1, 2014. ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
07.08.2013	Washington – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan announced that Youngstown State University has been awarded a federal grant of $22,526 for a Nurse Anesthetist Traineeship Program. This grant was awarded by the Health Resources and Services Administration of the US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). “This grant will help Youngstown State further students’ opportunities to get hands on experience in the healthcare industry. It is important that young people in our community have the best possible education and training, especially when it comes to those we entrust to care for our health,” said Congressman Ryan. ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
07.01.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in response to new laws attacking women’s healthcare in Ohio Governor John Kasich’s Budget: “Every Ohioan who cares about good government and the health of Ohio women and families should be shocked and disturbed by the numerous anti-woman measures Governor Kasich just signed into law as part of his state budget. This budget is yet another example of the war on women’s health that Governor Kasich and Republican extremists in the Ohio State Legislature continue to wage in Ohio and across the United States. "With the states Gross Domestic Product for 2012 at an anemic 2.2%, the Governor and his conservative friends in the legislature need to stop obsessing over women’s reproductive health. They somehow find it necessary to shift the focus of a budget that needs to concentrate on job creation in Ohio to rolling-back women’s access to healthcare and family planning. These anti-woman measures were added without ever being debated. The provisions passed on a party-line vote because the Governor knew if he gave Ohioans the chance to voice their opposition to these measures there would have been a state-wide outcry. When it comes to access to health care, Ohioans need more of it, not less.” # # #
07.01.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement on the doubling of interest rates of subsidized Stafford student loans. Republicans impeded Congressional action that was necessary to renew the lower interest rate of 3.4%, causing it to double to a rate of 6.8% on July 1. “In 2007, congressional Democrats passed the College Cost Reduction and Access Act that lowered interest rates on subsidized Stafford Loans each year until they reached their current low of 3.4 percent. Since then, millions of students have benefited from lower rates. Congress extended the 3.4 percent rate last year through the 2012-13 academic year. Now, rather than taking steps to make college more affordable for a generation that is already faced with inflated college expenses and a competitive job market, Republicans have instead chosen to add to the already high expenses faced by our nation’s college students by allowing the interest rate to double to 6.8 percent. "Instead of working on a bipartisan plan that would work in the interest of students, House and Senate Republicans have proposed bills that would make college even more expensive. While the White House has threatened veto on any bill that exacerbates student loan debt, it is time that we take any action we can to help reduce the burden of college expenses for our nation’s students.” ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
06.28.2013	Washington, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Tim Ryan met with Moukdala Phengmany from Garfield High School, the Ohio 13th Congressional District’s winner of the Congressional Art Competition, at the United States Capitol Building. This nationwide art competition gives students an opportunity to showcase their talent, with the winning entry to hang as part of an eleven month exhibit in the Cannon Tunnel that leads to the U.S. Capitol building. Moukdala Phengmany GARFIELD High School Title of Entry: SELF PORTRAIT Art Instructor: Patrick Dougherty Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
06.28.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan today voted in favor of H.R. 1864, a bill he co-sponsored with Congresswoman Jackie Walorski (IN-02) and Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez (CA-46). The legislation requires the Inspector General to investigate allegations of retaliation in connection to a service member reporting an act of sexual violence and includes reports of sexual assault as a form of communication under military whistleblower protections. The bill is in response to a rise in sexual assaults in the military, and proposes that victims of sexual assault be protected from punishment for reporting incidents of sexual misconduct.“It is disturbing to see the large number of sexual assaults that go unreported in our military each year,” said Congressman Ryan. “Many of these incidents fail to be reported by the victims for fear they would be penalized or retaliated against. This legislation provides necessary protection as well as peace of mind for victims of sexual assault in the military, assuring them that their voices are being heard and justice is being served.” According to the Department of Defense, there were an estimated 26,000 victims of sexual violence in the military during 2012 – a rate of over 71 per day. However, only 3,374 reports were filed by service members during that same period. While existing whistleblower laws are already in place, H.R. 1864 goes a step further and provides victims with the assurance that they cannot be threatened or punished for reporting sexual assault. # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
06.28.2013	Washington DC – Congressman Tim Ryan, Co-chairman of the Military Mental Health Caucus, recognizes National Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) Awareness Day. June 27th was designated National PTSD Awareness Day in order to shed a greater light on this issue that affects so many Americans. Further, the month of June has been designated PTSD Awareness Month by the National Center for PTSD Awareness (NCPTSD). PTSD is an anxiety disorder that can affect anyone who has been exposed to a single or multiple traumatic events. According to the NCPTSD some symptoms include reliving the event; avoiding situations that remind one of the events; negative changes in beliefs and feelings; hyperarousal or feeling keyed up. PTSD affects 3.5 percent of the US adult population over a 12 month period with 36.6 percent of those affected are classified as “severe”, according to the National Institute of Mental Health. The issue of PTSD is especially serious when it comes to United States Armed Services. The National Institute of Health estimates that 20 percent of the over 2.3 million veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan wars suffer from PTSD. As of December of 2012, there had been 27,549 veterans diagnosed with PTSD. “It’s our solemn responsibility to do everything we can for those who answered their nation’s call and put themselves in harm's way. I am heartbroken by the shamefully high number of our veterans who are suffering from PTSD. I will continue to fight everyday to give them all the every resource necessary to ensure that they are able to return to civilian society as productive members, we should take the health of our veterans’ minds as seriously as we take the health of their bodies,” said Congressman Ryan. Congressman Ryan has aggressively pursued ways to help veterans with PTSD. He has used his Caucus to highlight different methods for preventing and treating PTSD, with events as recent as last month and coming up in the next few weeks. He has also co-sponsored multiple bills that work to provide more mental health resources to veterans, including his provision in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that expands the time of access to telemedicine benefits for those separating from the service. ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
06.27.2013	Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Congressman Rodney Alexander (R-LA) together cosponsored an amendment which passed the full Appropriations Committee during the markup of the Energy and Water Appropriations Bill. The amendment asks the Department of Energy (DOE) to report to the Committee how they will move forward with the backlog of non-Free Trade Agreement (FTA) Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) Export Applications. Additionally, the amendment encourages the DOE to create a system which is transparent and efficient to work through the backlog of non-FTA LNG Export Applications. “It is important that we do not waste time and money allowing these export applications to sit and collect dust while other nations purchase natural gas from our competitors. This language does not call for the applications to be approved or denied, but simply requests the Department of Energy to lay out a clear plan and execute it. There is no reason this bureaucratic process should continue to hold the United States and Ohio back from billions in economic investment and the creation of thousands of good-paying jobs,” said Congressman Ryan. ### Michael Zetts Press Assistant/New Media Coordinator Office of Rep. Tim RyanMichael.Zetts@mail.house.gov 202-225-5261 (o) 202-225-3719 (f)
06.26.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement on the Supreme Court ruling on the Defense of Marriage Act and Proposition 8: Our country has a long history of expanding the rights our citizens deserve—and today’s rulings by the Supreme Court continue the recognition of equality and justice under the law. All of our sons and daughters, brothers and sisters, nieces and nephews deserve to be able to love and marry whomever they choose and today’s decisions have brought us one step closer to that reality. These two rulings by America’s highest court are a vindication for those of us who argue for the equality of marriage and the promise of equality for every American. This ruling proves that couples and their children are guaranteed access to federal benefits that strengthen families. I believe this will make the United States a more just country, but we should not rest on our victories. We must continue the fight for marriage equality, as marriage rights should not depend on what state you live in. There is still uncertainty for many couples in America, and I hope the Administration will take every step necessary to ensure that all married couples receive equal rights. I am happy that the Supreme Court has brought the country one step closer to realizing our Constitution’s promise of equality. ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
06.25.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement on the Senate Armed Services Committee’s passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which included several key reforms to address sexual assaults in the military: “I am encouraged that despite failing in so many areas, this Congress continues to move in the right direction regarding military sexual assault. The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) recently approved by the Senate Armed Services Committee (SASC) includes several key reforms to address the unacceptable level of sexual assaults in the military. Like the Combating Military Sexual Assault Act I introduced with Congresswoman Kay Granger, the SASC NDAA enhances the responsibilities of the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office, ensures availability of Sexual Assault Response Coordinators for members of the National Guard and the Reserves, provides for Special Victims’ Counsel to advise and advocate for survivors of sexual assault, and ensures that no commander can throw out a sexual assault conviction. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House and Senate, including Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), to ensure these provisions are signed into law.” ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
06.21.2013	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Ryan is pleased to announce that Kent State University (KSU) has been awarded two grants from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) totaling more than $825,000. The HHS’s National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases has awarded $384,192 to KSU for Diabetes, Endocrinology and Metabolic Research. The HHS’s National Institute of Mental Health awarded $441,600 to KSU for Stress-Induced Noradrenergic Dysregulation of Neuroinflammation & HPA Response Research.“Part of rebuilding our economy is making sure we are investing in our future – and this is exactly what these grants are about. America has always been a leader in innovation and we need to keep funding research programs, like these, which help ensure healthier futures for our children. We cannot continue to live in the past, we need to keep building, keep investing, keep moving forward and Kent State University is constantly driving us in that direction,” said Congressman Ryan. Both grants are a part of the HHS’s Academic Research Enhancement Awards (AREA) and to fund programs from 07/01/2013 to 06/30/2016. ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
06.20.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement on failure of the Republican-led Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management (FARRM) Act, which was defeated in the House of Representatives: “Earlier today, I voted against the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act, a bad piece of legislation that would have cut SNAP benefits for nearly two million people and eliminated free school lunch and breakfast programs for 210,000 children. But my disappointment goes further than that. This bill, containing draconian cuts and eliminating good programs like the Healthy Food Financing Initiative, was written and brought to a vote by House Republicans. Unbelievably, their own Tea Party members didn’t think it went far enough in cutting funding—and 62 of them voted against the bill. This is a clear failure to govern by the Republican leadership, whose Tea Party members continue to stand in the way of Congress doing its work. “Not having a Farm Bill that the House could pass in a bipartisan way hurts our farmers, hurts businesses and hurts our consumers. Every American depends on American farms and we should have their backs – I just wish my Republican colleagues felt the same way.” # # #
06.19.2013	Washington, D.C.—Congressman Tim Ryan today opposed H.R. 1797, the Nationwide 20-Week Abortion Ban bill which would establish a federal ban on abortions taking place after twenty weeks of pregnancy. While the bill contains an exception in the cases of rape or incest, this exception is alarmingly narrow as it excludes cases that were not reported to law enforcement. This means that 54% of rape victims would not have the option to terminate their pregnancies since their cases went unreported. “This bill is dangerous in its implications and completely ignores the risks posed to women who carry pregnancies with severe and possibly fatal problems that may be discovered after twenty weeks,” said Congressman Ryan. “House Republicans are trying to remove these complex decisions with medical, spiritual, financial and emotional implications, from women and hand it to politicians where it certainly does not belong. By continuing to spend Congress’s time on legislation they know will never become law, this bill is further proof that Congressional Republicans continue to neglect our national jobs crisis.” H.R. 1797 would place doctors in difficult situations in which they could not help their patients whose pregnancies have been determined non-viable after twenty weeks, which is four weeks shorter than the minimum viability period of twenty-four weeks. The Nationwide 20-Week Abortion Ban bill is opposed by numerous health and religious organizations including the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, the American Society for Reproductive Medicine, the United Church of Christ, the Religious Coalition for Reproductive Choice, the National Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League (NARAL) and Planned Parenthood Federation of America. # # #
06.18.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement today in recognition of the 50th anniversary of National Small Business Week: “This week celebrates the 50th annual National Small Business Week, and I am happy to offer my support to those businesses and business owners who create three out of every four jobs, over half of our innovation and over half of our private gross domestic product in the United States. Our economy’s current situation—and the future health of our economy—is closely tied to the success of our small business community. It is our small businesses that can lift our economy and create good-paying jobs for millions of unemployed. Not least important, small businesses are much more likely to create jobs in the United States instead of using offshore foreign labor. “With half of all working Americans being either owners or employees of small businesses, this is key to increasing the United States’ standing in the global marketplace. National Small Business Week is a celebration of what small businesses have already achieved as well as an acknowledgment that there is always room for improvement. I stand in support of small businesses in America and the role they play in growing our economy.” # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
06.18.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan today joined Congresswoman Marcia Fudge (OH-11) and Congressman Dan Kildee (MI-05) in offering an amendment that would give millions of Ohio citizens more purchasing power to buy healthy, fresh and locally-grown fruits and vegetables at farmers’ markets across the state. The amendment seeks to provide an additional $5 million a year to implement or expand food incentive programs to encourage the consumption of locally-grown produce and allow Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) recipients to maximize their food assistance benefits.“This is a program that works--and is deserving of more support. It will provide incentives for people to buy fresh fruits and vegetables and provide farmers with a local market to sell their products,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Farmers’ markets and a thriving local food economy can provide good food and good jobs—and help keep our children and families healthy in the process.” The amendment was offered as part of the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management (FARRM) Act. The amendment would decrease the adjusted gross income level for price stabilization and conservation programs from $950,000 to $750,000 to offset any cost of the program. This amendment can provide Ohio families who receive SNAP benefits the means to purchase more healthy, fresh and locally-grown food. For those who receive SNAP benefits and shop at participating farmers’ markets, the amount of money spent is matched up to a certain dollar amount with tokens that can be used to buy fresh-grown fruits and vegetables. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, there are 1.85 million people in Ohio who receive SNAP benefits. ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
06.14.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan Issued the following statement on passage of the National Defense Authorization Act, which passed the House of Representatives earlier today: “Today I voted to support the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). While I was disappointed in some of the provisions, such as the language that ties the President’s hands with respect to the detention center at Guantanamo Bay, I am pleased that several initiatives I supported were included in the Act. Some of the provisions from the Troop Talent Act, which I cosponsored, were adopted into the NDAA and will enable those who serve to make the transition to the private sector more easily and help our businesses thrive at the same time. I also worked with Congressman Glenn Thompson (PA-05) to amend the NDAA to extend mental health services to veterans who are leaving military service. “Several key provisions of my Combating Military Sexual Assault Act were reflected in the NDAA: providing dedicated legal counsel for sexual assault survivors, requiring commanders to justify in writing any reduction to court-martial sentences, and ensuring no sexual assault conviction can be tossed out by a commander. I am encouraged to see Congress coming together to make significant reforms to address this serious problem in the military. “Our military must be fully prepared for threats and challenges they face around the world, and our job is to make sure they get the support they need to carry out their mission. I voted for this NDAA because I believe it does that.” # # #
06.13.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan and Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell today announced $112,264 in payments to five counties in the 13th Congressional District that will help local governments carry out vital services, such as firefighting and police protection, construction of public schools and roads, and search and rescue operations. Approximately 1,900 local governments around the Nation are receiving a total of $399.8 million under the 2013 Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program."In this era of continual ‘belt tightening’ by our local governments, every dollar raised is significant,” said Congressman Ryan. “Compensating Ohio counties for activities that take place on federal non-taxable land makes sense and helps fund vital local services.” The PILT program compensates counties and local governments for non-taxable federal land in their jurisdictions. Under the program, Summit County will receive $40,299; Trumbull County will receive $38,852; Portage County will receive $23,890; Stark County will receive $5,262; and Mahoning County will receive $3,961. PILT program eligibility is reserved for local governments (mostly rural counties) that contain non-taxable federal lands and provide vital services, such as public safety, housing, social services and transportation. These jurisdictions provide significant support for national parks, wildlife refuges and recreation areas throughout the year. PILT seeks to compensate them for their support and foregoing tax revenue from these federal lands. Using a formula provided by statute, the annual PILT payments to local governments are computed based on the number of acres of federal entitlement land within each county or jurisdiction and the population of that county or jurisdiction. ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
06.12.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, today voted in support of the 2014 Defense Appropriations Act, a $598.3 billion bill that now moves from the Appropriations Committee to a final vote in the House of Representatives. “While I’m disappointed that this Congress has been unable to find a balanced solution to the current sequester disaster that will continue to have a devastating impact on domestic programs, I support this defense bill and believe that it provides the funding that our military needs,” said Congressman Ryan. “I am particularly encouraged that this committee is providing resources to combat the sexual assault problem in the military, providing mental health resources to address military suicides, and continuing to invest in the military acquisition process critical to the success of our armed forces—such as the C-130 modernization programs that will better equip units with older aircraft like our own 910th Airlift Wing at Youngstown Air Reserve Station.” Congressman Ryan has been outspoken on the issue of sexual assault in the military, and recently introduced the Combating Military Sexual Assault Act of 2013. The Congressman advocated for the committee to fully fund the Sexual Assault and Prevention Office (SAPRO), and for an additional $25 million to expand the special victims’ counsel program to the other services in accordance with Congressman Ryan’s stand-alone legislation. The defense spending bill also provides the military services with additional funding for suicide prevention and outreach, and provides funding to increase the mental health services available to National Guardsmen – a currently underserved population. The bill incorporated a number of provisions championed by Congressman Ryan, including one that provides an increase in technology funding that would allow students to remotely access advanced cyber-enabled additive manufacturing equipment, and a provision that would encourage the Army and Marine Corps to pursue implementation of skills based resiliency training in order to prevent post-traumatic stress and enhance our service member’s ability to perform in combat. The bill also includes a 1.8% increase in active duty pay; enhancements to embassy security; investments in health services and medical research. ###
06.10.2013	Today, Congressman Ryan recognizes the 50th Anniversary of the Equal Pay Act and calls for the immediate passage of the Paycheck Fairness Act. On June 10, 1963, President John F. Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act to ensure that women are paid what they deserve. When President Kennedy signed this legislation, women earned 59 cents for every dollar earned by men. Despite the Equal Pay Act, women’s wages are still not equal to those of men, with women earning only 77 cents for every dollar earned by men. In Ohio, the ratio is the same 77 percent—and according to a 2011 study, the former 17th Congressional District of Ohio showed women earning only 76 percent of what men earned. “I am offended that since this legislation’s enactment fifty years ago, the law has never once been updated or strengthened. It is time for my Republican Colleagues to join Democrats in standing up for women’s rights and pass the Paycheck Fairness Act,” said Congressman Ryan. “I know women are vital to Ohio’s workforce – there is no reason that they should not earn equal wages for equal work.” Equal pay for women has been a top priority for Democrats, the first piece of legislation signed by President Obama was the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act – which restores women’s right to challenge unfair pay in court. The House of Representatives has passed the Paycheck Fairness Act twice, but Republicans continue to block the bill in the Senate. ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
06.05.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan, member of the Defense Subcommittee on Appropriations, today voted in support of the 2014 Military Construction/Veterans Administration bill, which provides $5.2 million for a sewer project at Camp Ravenna Joint Military Training Center. The Ohio National Guard has a long-term plan to develop Camp Ravenna as a major training site. Ohio National Guard units from across the state, as well as military units from other states will increasingly train at Camp Ravenna. With over 21,000 acres, the camp provides the capacity to train up to a brigade-sized element (3,000 Soldiers). “The Ravenna Arsenal is a major asset for Northeastern Ohio and the U.S. military, and the $5.2 million secured today will upgrade the infrastructure, provide jobs, and help secure Camp Ravenna’s future as a premier training site,” said Congressman Ryan. "With this major update and expansion of the existing infrastructure," said Brigadier General John Harris, "we are moving closer to our vision of Camp Ravenna as a major regional training center, able to meet the training needs of the more than 11,000 Soldiers of the Ohio National Guard, along with military and first responder assets from many other states and departments." The Military Construction/VA Bill provides $73.2 billion in spending for 2014, including $63.1 billion for VA programs, primarily for medical care to treat approximately 6.5 million patients in fiscal year 2014. The bill also provides $10 billion for military construction programs. The bill also addresses the backlog of veterans disability claims, including increasing the number of claims processors, investing in the transition from paper to digital health records, new reporting requirements on the backlog, and developing an integrated health records system with the Department of Defense. # # #
05.31.2013	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan today called on Congress to reach an agreement to replace sequester with sensible and balanced legislation that will protect our defense establishment, produce jobs, protect critical investments in research and infrastructure, and rein in long-term deficits. Congressman Ryan voted against sequester in federal agencies —and the evidence is becoming clear that sequester was a mistake. Earlier this week, the Department of Defense (DoD) began issuing furlough notices to non-exempt employees, including up to 22,397 DoD employees in Ohio, who may lose wages totaling $73,909,965. DoD employees face up to eleven days off beginning around July 8th. “The cuts to the Defense Department and to over 22,000 Ohio employees are just another example of the senseless cuts brought about by sequester,” said Congressman Ryan. “As has been pointed out by our military leaders, these furloughs—and other cuts to the Defense Department hurt our readiness and our ability to respond in case of an emergency. In Ohio this means time off of work and lost wages that will hurt our working families. Congress needs to stop legislating by ideology and begin to address the many problems facing the country.” Nationally, more than 651,000 DoD employees – 85% of its workforce – will be furloughed at some point. The impact of these furloughs on the U.S. economy is expected to cost more than $2 billion dollars. # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.)
05.24.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan today voted against the Republican-led Smarter Solutions for Students Act, which claims to help students, but it would make college more expensive for students and their families, forcing them into loans with variable interest rates that make the student debt crisis worse that it is currently. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the bill would cost an additional $3.7 billion over the next decade in interest payments. “Future economic development is dependent on an educated workforce. Increasing student debt and making it more difficult for our students to stay in school is not in the best interests of our country, said Congressman Ryan. “Given that student loan debt has eclipsed credit card debt—my Republican colleagues should be looking at ways to decrease student debt—and variable rates that change every year is not the way to do it.” Congressman Ryan and his Democratic colleagues have supported a bill to block student loan rates from doubling on July 1—and keeps the 3.4 percent rate in place for the next two years. # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
05.23.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement after the House Armed Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Military Personnel approved a bill today that will address the problem of sexual assault in the military: “I am pleased that the House Armed Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Military Personnel approved a bill today that takes significant steps to address the problem of sexual assault in the military. The bill provides survivors of sexual assault with their own legal counsel who are trained and certified to give them legal advice and representation throughout the investigative and trial process. The bill also takes away the ability of military commanders to toss out convictions for sexual assault. “I am encouraged that the committee adopted these two important components of the Combating Military Sexual Assault Act (CMSA) that I introduced with Congresswoman Granger and several other members of Congress. I hope that as Congress continues to shape the 2014 National Defense Authorization Act we make it a priority to do everything in our power to prevent sexual assaults in the military, and to provide world-class support for survivors of sexual assault.” # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
05.22.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan’s amendment to restrict immigrant visas for Brazilian nationals and citizens passed the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee earlier today, which would put a moratorium on processing any additional visas for Brazilian citizens. Because Brazil has a policy of refusing to extradite Brazilian nationals who commit crimes in the United States, this legal loophole allows Brazilian nationals to commit crimes in the United States and flee to Brazil thereby jeopardizing U.S. homeland security. On March 15th, 2007, U.S. Air Force Reserve Major Karl Hoerig, a veteran with nearly 200 combat missions over Iraq and Afghanistan, was found fatally shot in his home in Newton Falls, OH. The primary suspect, who has been charged with murder, is Claudia Hoerig, his wife at the time and a Brazilian national. Claudia Hoerig has remained free from justice since 2007, avoiding trial by taking advantage of a provision in the Brazilian constitution that bans extradition of any Brazilian citizen. “I will not be deterred from bringing Claudia Hoerig back to the United States to stand trial for the murder of Major Karl Hoerig,” said Congressman Ryan. “We must never accept a situation that allows individuals to come to our country and commit crimes, then flee to Brazil with immunity. Major Hoerig’s killer must be returned to the United States to stand trial and we must send a message to Brazil that their conduct won’t be tolerated. This is only going to get more painful for Government of Brazil until Claudia Hoerig is extradited. This amendment—which was adopted by voice vote—restricts U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) funds from being used to approve citizen-sponsored (I-130) petitions, employee-sponsored (I-140), and any other immigrant visa petition subject to USCIS approval submitted by or for a Brazilian national or citizen. # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
05.21.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan and Congressman Tom Reed, co-chairs of the House Manufacturing Caucus, as well as six other members of the Manufacturing Caucus, are asking House Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon and Ranking Member Adam Smith to consider legislative proposals to limit a U.S. Air Force contract that could send as much as $10 billion to Brazil. The contract was awarded to Brazilian-based Embraer over Kansas-based Beechcraft. The letter to Chairman McKeon and Ranking Member Smith is below: May 17, 2013 Chairman Buck McKeon Ranking Member Adam Smith Armed Services Committee Armed Services Committee 2120 Rayburn HOB 2120 Rayburn HOB Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman McKeon and Ranking Member Smith, As members of the House Manufacturing Caucus, we write to you concerning the recent U.S. Air Force decision to award the Light Air Support contract to Brazilian-based Embraer over Wichita, Kansas-based Beechcraft. The initial contract to deliver 20 planes to Afghanistan is worth approximately $427.5 million, with a current ceiling of $950 million. However, what is most concerning is the global marketplace for light air support (LAS) aircraft and the off-shoring of a generation of U.S manufacturing jobs. This single acquisition will become the program of record for the “Building Partnership Capacity (BPC) of Partner States.” The USAF has stated in Congressional testimony that as many as 27 countries may purchase this aircraft through BPC. Even modest projections suggest the potential value of this award could be as high as $10 billion – in procurement dollars alone. The U.S. aerospace industrial base, which the DOD and our Nation rely upon to produce the finest military capabilities in the world, will be harmed by this decision and the American taxpayer will foot this bill. Brazil’s aerospace industrial base and workforce will be strengthened, while the U.S. is weakened, if the Department of Defense’s move to establish Embraer as the LAS program of record for the BPC is allowed to stand. Financed with as much as $1 billion in American taxpayer funding, Brazil will market its aircraft as the LAS program of record around the world. While Beechcraft is headquartered in Kansas, it depends upon a strong supplier base spread across 38 states. The award of the LAS program to a foreign sovereign is particularly troubling at a time of continued high unemployment, budget sequestration, and the expected continued decline in U.S. defense budgets. Budget sequestration combined with declining defense budgets is already squeezing manufacturing jobs out of existence in the U.S. This decision also puts the Brazilian government, which has operational direction in Embraer, in control of a U.S. national security asset, while at the same time putting at risk over 1,400 high skill U.S. jobs. Unbelievably, an innovative U.S. workforce will face job loss while their tax dollars are used to fund the growth of a foreign competitor. At a time of tightening Federal budgets, disinvestment in our aerospace industrial base and workforce is the wrong choice for America. As the Fiscal Year 2014 National Defense Authorization Act is drafted we ask that you consider legislative proposals to address these serious concerns. Sincerely, Congressman Tim Ryan Congressman Tom Reed Congressman Matthew Cartwright Congresswoman Tammy Duckworth Congressman Dan Lipinski Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur Congressman Mike Pompeo Congressman Michael Michaud # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
05.21.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan and the U.S. Department of Labor are announcing today the certification of a petition for Trade Adjustment Assistance workers at the closing General Electric (GE) Ravenna Lamp Plant. The petition was filed March 27, 2013 by a company official on behalf of the employees. Trade Adjustment Assistance will assist separated workers in their search for re-employment in a number of ways, including up to two years of retraining. “The Trade Adjustment Assistance Program will give GE Lighting employees numerous services to help them land on their feet once the facility is closed. I will continue to work with company officials and employees to provide needed resources during this difficult transition,” said Congressman Ryan. The Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) Program is a federal program that assists US workers who have lost their jobs as a result of foreign trade. The program provides trade-affected workers with opportunities to obtain the skills, resources, and support they need to become reemployed. For example, Trade Readjustment Allowances will provide income support while workers are participating in full-time training, which may include classroom and/or on the-job training, customized training, post-secondary education, prerequisite education or coursework and remedial education. The cost of training is paid to the training provider by the State with TAA Program funds. In addition, the Health Care Tax Credit makes health insurance more affordable for trade-affected workers by paying 72.5% of health insurance premiums. # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
05.20.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan is pleased to announce the winners of the thirty-second Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery. This nationwide art competition gives students an opportunity to showcase their talent, with the winning entry to hang as part of an eleven month exhibit in the Cannon Tunnel that leads to the U.S. Capitol building. A ribbon-cutting and reception will be held in Washington, D.C. on Wednesday, June 26th. Congressman Ryan honored the winning artists at a reception held last Saturday at the Akron Art Museum. CONGRESSIONAL ART SHOW RESULTS BEST OF SHOW GARFIELD HS Moukdala Phengmany Title of Entry: SELF PORTRAIT Art Instructor: Patrick Dougherty 1ST PLACE URSULINE HS Arona Mostov Title of Entry: The Farmer's Table Art Teacher: Edward Victor 2ND PLACE POLAND SEMINARY HS Allison Mitcham Title of Entry: Robby#29 Art Instructor: Tamara Sue Johnson 3RD PLACE GARFIELD HS Student: John Bonyo Title of Entry: Snow White Art Instructor: Patrick Dougherty Honorable Mention 1. Garfield HS Moukdala Phengmany Title of Entry: Emotional Art Teacher: Patrick Dougherty 2. Garfield HS Student: Moukdala Phengmany Title of Entry: Little Ella Art Teacher: Patrick Dougherty 3. Ursuline HS Student: MarTaysia Holland Title of Entry: Beautiful Tall Tree Art Teacher: Janice O’Neil 4. Ursuline HS Student: MarTaysia Holland Title of Entry: Enchanted Night Art Teacher: Janice O’Neil 5. Ursuline HS Student: Cassandra Murphy Title of Entry: Glorious Autumn Art Teacher: Janice O’Neil 6. Ursuline HS Student: Qixuan Fu Title of Entry: Sunset Glow Art Teacher: Edward Victor 7. Ursuline HS Student: Candace Hernandez Title of Entry: Snowflakes for Days Art Teacher: Edward Victor 8. Warren Harding Student: Jackie Callow Title of Entry: Shy Sun Art Teacher: Thomas Sewickley 9. Warren Harding Student: Molly Martin Title of Entry: Freedom Art Teacher: John Johnson 10. Springfield HS Student: Brittany Alekna Title of Entry: A New Beginning Art Teacher: Nancy Michel 11. Garfield HS Student: John Bonyo Title of Entry: The Hair Art Teacher: Patrick Dougherty # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
05.20.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan Issued the following statement in response to allegations that the IRS has targeted and investigated Republican and other Conservative non-profit organizations: “The credibility of our government, especially among those who collect our revenues, must be above political considerations. The targeting of Republican non-profit groups by the IRS is simply an outrageous act, and those responsible must be held accountable. This is the kind of behavior that undermines the credibility of the entire system. I believe that government can and should make the lives of our citizens better—and there is no place for an agency that should be non-partisan to act any other way. Any act by the IRS that erodes public confidence needs the closest of scrutiny.” # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
05.20.2013	Today the Department of Energy conditionally authorized Freeport LNG, a Texas-based manufacturer, to export domestically produced liquefied natural gas (LNG) to countries without a Free Trade Agreement (FTA) with the United States. The House of Representatives bipartisan LNG Export Working Group, co-founded by Congressman Tim Ryan and made up of Congressmen Bill Johnson (R-OH), James Lankford (R-OK), Mike Doyle (D-PA), Mike Pompeo (R-KS), Jim Matheson (D-UT), Cory Gardner (R-CO), and Pete Gallego (D-TX) released the following statement in response: "For some time now, our LNG Export Working Group has been focused on addressing the interests and development of domestic LNG exporting. Despite party affiliations, we have gathered regularly to work toward a common goal: allowing United States LNG manufacturers the free-market capabilities to export and sell their product. Today, President Obama and the Department of Energy authorized the second company, Freeport LNG, on a list of applicants to export LNG to a non-FTA country. Our group commends this progress, and encourages the President and the DOE to continue to expeditiously process the requests, evaluating each in a timely order to bring certainty to the LNG export market. ICF International recently released a study that disclosed LNG exports could lead to more than 200,000 American jobs; thus, this is an industry we cannot afford to ignore." The press release from the Department of Energy can be found here: DOE Release on Freeport LNG Application Approval ###
05.16.2013	Washington, D.C. – In honor of Celiac Disease Awareness Month, Representatives Tim Ryan and Nita Lowey introduced the Gluten in Medicine Disclosure Act in order to make it easier to identify gluten in drug products. This legislation requires that drugs intended for human use have a label containing an identification of ingredients constituting or derived from a grain or starch. This legislation is crucial for the millions of Americans affected by this life-long digestive disorder triggered by the ingestion of gluten or wheat grain products. According to the Mayo Clinic, celiac disease has increased by as much as four times in the last decade and affects three million Americans. The standard treatment for celiac disease is the elimination of gluten-containing products; and for some individuals, failure to avoid these can cause life-threatening complications. “Celiac disease is a growing issue for our country and as elected officials it is our duty to give those affected all the resources they need to treat their disease. The United States already mandates that food products containing wheat are adequately labeled and there is no reason why we shouldn’t do the same for our medications. I am proud to introduce legislation that can help avert the serious health risk millions of Americans are forced to endure every day while taking unlabeled, potentially harmful medications,” said Congressman Ryan (OH-13). “For millions of Americans, avoiding gluten is a medical necessity. Just as consumers deserve to know if their food contains gluten, it is critical that consumers know if medications contain gluten,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee. “This legislation would help protect Americans’ health by giving them information on the label to ensure their medications help -- not hurt – them,” said Congresswoman Lowey (NY-17) "This legislation would provide individuals with celiac disease and food allergies with vitally important information to manage their health. It is a simple, cost-effective measure that will ensure prescription medications are, in fact, safe for millions of Americans,” noted Beth Hillson, President of the American Celiac Disease Alliance. "We applaud Representatives Ryan and Lowey for their leadership in sponsoring the Gluten in Medicine Disclosure Act." The Gluten in Medicine Disclosure Act has been endorsed by: American Celiac Disease Alliance, National Foundation for Celiac Awareness, Celiac Disease Foundation, Celiac Sprue Association, Gluten Intolerance Group, North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, and the American College of Gastroenterology. ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 C: (330) 717-8103
05.15.2013	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan is announcing today that the Bazetta Fire Department has been awarded an Operations and Safety grant through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Department of Homeland Security. The Bazetta Fire Department received $8,172. “Congratulations to Bazetta Fire Chief Dennis Lewis. He and his department are well deserving of this grant,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. The primary goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service organizations. Operations and Safety grant projects funding can be used for professional training, wellness and fitness programs equipment, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and supplies that support firefighting and non-affiliated EMS operations and safety. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders to obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. For more information, visit the program’s website. ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
05.15.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan and Congresswoman Kay Granger today introduced the Combating Military Sexual Assault Act of 2013, a bipartisan bill that directs the Department of Defense (DoD) to provide a Special Victims’ Counsel (SVC) for victims of sexual assault, and implements other significant reforms to prevent sexual assaults and assist victims. The SVC will provide expert legal advice to the victim throughout the process and across the full range of issues: criminal liability, the victim’s responsibility to testify, and assistance in navigating any military or civilian litigation. The legislation also stipulates that the SVCs must be attorneys certified as competent to fulfill this role by the Judge Advocate General of their respective service. The bill also provides SVCs the authority to act as the victim’s attorney throughout the process, and to represent those victims in Uniformed Code of Military Justice (UCMJ hearings where the victim has a right to be heard. The bill also instructs Sexual Assault Response Coordinators (SARCs), Victim Advocates, military criminal investigators, victim/witness liaisons, trial counsel, health care providers, and other personnel who may serve as an initial point of contact to inform victims of the availability of SVCs, regardless of whether the victim elects unrestricted or restricted reporting of the assault. “Recent events make it absolutely clear that the time for action to address the military sexual assault crisis is now,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “We cannot wait any longer, and that is why I introduced the Combating Military Sexual Assault Act of 2013 today, to require immediate and bold reforms in all of the military services.” “Those who choose a life dedicated to protecting our nation deserve to be honored, respected and protected, but thousands battle sexual assault within their own ranks every year,” said Congresswoman Kay Granger. “This is unacceptable and must be stopped. As a first step, I’m proud to join Congressman Tim Ryan to introduce these critical reforms that better protect victims and hold the perpetrators of sexual assault accountable.” “The Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) fully supports Representative Tim Ryan’s bill, the Combating Military Sexual Assault Act of 2013,” said MOAA national President, VADM Norb Ryan, USN-ret. “Ensuring military members are safe from sexual assault is a duty of everyone in the chain of command. Military leaders must create a climate that provides victims better avenues for treatment and legal recourse. This legislation does just that by increasing support for sexual assault victims in our nation’s Armed Forces.” The Combating Military Sexual Assault Act of 2013 instructs the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office to provide guidance and assistance throughout the services in collecting, maintaining, and disseminating sexual assault data drawn from annual reports from the individual services as well as develop metrics to measure the effectiveness of, and compliance of response and prevention efforts. Each of the services is mandated to track allegations of sexual assault as well as courts-martial and trials of service members for offenses relating to sexual assault. Each service can provide recommendations on modifications to policy, law, and regulations as well as ensuring the continued availability of prevention/response resources, and each service will collaborate and provide the Secretary of Veterans Affairs any records or documents on sexual assault for the purposes of furnishing veterans’ health care, assessing veterans’ benefits, or any other law administered by the Veterans Administration. Importantly, the bill codifies a requirement for all rape and sexual assault offenses to go to the general court-martial convening authority (GCMCA) for initial disposition. This will over ride current law which allows lower level commanders to dispose of a sexual assault offense. This bill also removes the ability of the convening authority to set aside or reduce a finding of guilty, except for minor offenses. It will ensure that a conviction like the recent one at Aviano Air Base will never again be thrown out by a commander. # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
05.09.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan announced today that he will introduce in the House of Representatives the Combating Military Sexual Assault Act of 2013. The bill will address gaps within current law and policy, and build upon the steps recently taken by the Department of Defense (DoD) and the individual services. The DoD, in a report released on Tuesday, estimates that 26,000 sexual assaults took place in 2012, with only 3,374 of those being reported. This means thousands of sexual assault victims are left to face the aftermath of their assault alone, while their attackers may never face justice. Ryan’s legislation is similar to a bill introduced this week by Senator Patty Murray and Senator Kelly Ayotte. “This is an epidemic that threatens the very foundations of our military,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “All service members must have absolute confidence and trust in their fellow soldier, sailor, airman, and marine. How can they put their lives in each other’s hands if they fear that person as a potential sexual predator? Congress must address this issue and I intend to utilize my role on the Defense Subcommittee on Appropriations to help shape those proposals.” "The services have struggled for decades with pervasive sexual assault in the ranks,” said Anu Bhagwati, Executive Director of the Service Women’s Action Network (SWAN) and former Marine Corps Captain. “SWAN has been at the forefront of demanding institutional changes that would help improve this crisis and transform military culture. The Combating Military Sexual Assault Act to be introduced by Congressman Tim Ryan contains many provisions that will give the military the tools it needs to combat this widespread problem. Common-sense solutions like providing victims with their own designated lawyers, and making sure that our National Guard troops have access to the same resources that active duty service members have are critical in making sure that survivors are supported and that offenders will be better prosecuted." The Military Sexual Assault Act of 2013 will provide victims of sexual assault with Special Victims’ Counsel – a new class of military lawyer who will assist and advocate for the victim throughout any legal procedure up to trial. The bill will also enhance the responsibilities and authority of DoD’s Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office so that it may better oversee efforts to combat MSA across the Armed Forces and regularly track and report on a range of MSA statistics, including assault rate, number of cases brought to trial, and compliance within each of the individual services. Under the bill sexual assault cases must be referred to a level even higher than currently required by policy put into place by Secretary Panetta. It also would ensure that if a conflict of interest existed, another senior official would make the determination whether to go forward with the case. Congressman Ryan’s bill will also ensure that no commander has the authority to throw out a sexual assault conviction, as happened earlier this year in the highly publicized case at Aviano Air Base, Italy. # # #
05.08.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan introduced today the Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning Act, amending the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) to allow funding for teacher and principal training and professional development to be used for social and emotional learning programming. Joining Congressman Ryan as original cosponsors are Congressman Dave Loebsack, Congressman Tom Petri and Congressman Matt Cartwright. According to a 2009 report by the Center for Disease Control (CDC), students who feel more connected to school are more likely to have positive health and education outcomes. To accomplish this goal, the CDC recommends that schools “provide students with the academic, emotional, and social skills necessary to be actively engaged in school.” Students who exhibit these skills such as problem-solving, conflict resolution, responsible decision-making and relationship building, not only perform better academically, but are far less likely to engage in problem behavior like alcohol and drug use, violence, truancy, and bullying. “I have already seen what teaching social and emotional learning skills can do for a student and their classroom,” said Congressman Ryan. “Teaching social and emotional learning skills is based on the latest science and research, and schools in my congressional district are already improving because of social and emotional learning programs. Social and emotional competencies are absolutely essential skills—the foundation for all the other skills young people need to be successful in school and in life.” Congressman Tom Petri added, “A well-rounded education means more than just learning math and writing skills—though those are certainly important. But it’s been proven that interactive projects that improve a student’s communication, emotional, and social skills create more successful employees, community leaders, and productive members of society. Our bill will prepare teachers with the background and skills they need to enhance their students’ education.” Congressman Dave Loebsack added, “Having taught in a classroom, I know that many factors contribute to students’ academic success and preparation to secure good jobs, which is why we need to focus on the needs of the “whole child.” Ensuring students have the social and emotional capabilities to problem-solve and work in group settings prepares them for 21st century jobs and ensure they are able to handle every-day stresses that may otherwise make learning difficult. It is important that teachers are properly trained in how to foster these skills in students to set them on a path for long-term success. I look forward to working with Representatives Ryan and Petri on this important legislation.” “School districts nationwide are beginning to take action on decades of research that says social and emotional learning promotes positive behaviors and learning environments as well as better academic achievement,” said Roger P. Weissberg, Ph D, one of the nation’s preeminent scholars in the field of social and emotional learning. Weissberg is President and CEO of the Collaborative for Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning (CASEL) and NoVo Foundation Endowed Chair in Social and Emotional Learning in the Department of Psychology at the University of Illinois at Chicago. “This legislation would go a long way in supporting teachers in making social and emotional learning an essential ingredient in their teaching and a core part of education in this country.” A landmark meta-analysis of 213 social and emotional learning (SEL) programs with a combined sample of more than 270,000 students clearly established the effectiveness of SEL programs across a number of areas critical to the success of students. Students scored 11 percentile points higher on standardized achievement tests, a significant improvement relative to peers not receiving SEL programming. Students also exhibited more pro-social behavior, fewer problem behaviors, and less emotional stress. The Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning Act builds on this report and a large body of research proving that social and emotional programming has a positive impact on student learning. # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
05.07.2013	WASHINGTON- Congressman Tim Ryan will join Brigadier General John Adams (U.S. Army, Retired), and leading members of Congress in issuing a new report that finds America’s national security and the health of the nation’s defense industrial base in jeopardy because of an increasing reliance on foreign suppliers for critical defense materials. The report, which will be released tomorrow at a press briefing, offers recommendations to make America more independent and strengthen our national security by safeguarding America’s industrial base. WHO: Brigadier General John Adams (U.S. Army, Retired), President, Guardian Six Consulting U.S. Representative Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) U.S. Representative Mo Brooks (R-Ala.) Scott Paul, President, Alliance for American Manufacturing WHAT: “Remaking American Security: Supply Chain Vulnerabilities & National Security Risks Across the U.S. Defense Industrial Base” WHEN: Wednesday, May 8, 2013 TIME: 11:30 a.m. ET WHERE: Dirksen Senate Office Building, Room G11 (SDG11) (Entrance at 1st & C Street NW or 1st & Constitution Avenue NW) DIAL-IN: Reporters unable to attend the briefing may dial-in by phone: 888-539-3696 Passcode: 9105772 # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
04.29.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan is announcing that this week is the final opportunity for 13th Congressional District high school students to participate in the Thirty-Second Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery. This nationwide art competition gives students an opportunity to showcase their talent, and have their entry hang as part of an eleven month exhibit in the Cannon Tunnel that leads to the U.S. Capitol building in Washington, D.C. Artwork may be dropped off at Congressman Ryan’s Youngstown or Warren office between 8:30a.m. and 5:00p.m. Please call the Akron office before delivering art pieces to that office. All artwork must be submitted by Friday, May 3, 4:00p.m. The Akron Art Museum will host the 2013 13th Congressional District Art Competition Awards Ceremony Saturday, May 18th, at 11:30a.m. The winning artist will be invited to attend a reception to be held Wednesday, June 26 in the Capitol Visitor Center Auditorium and Atrium in Washington, D.C. For more information, call Pat Lowry at (330) 740-0193. Office Locations: Warren: 197 West Market Street Warren, OH 44481 Youngstown: 241 West Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 Akron: 1030 Tallmadge Avenue Akron, OH 44310 # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
04.29.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement on the Support Marriage Equality Ohio Rally in the Valley at Youngstown State University’s Kilcawley Center: “The promotion of fairness, equality, and justice is a hallmark of who we are as Ohioans and Americans. These entrenched values go far in ensuring a just and peaceful society that does the right thing for its people. If we are going to transform this nation, we need to welcome all of its sons and daughters with open arms. “I believe the State of Ohio and the entire nation should be a place where everyone, regardless of his or her sexual orientation, is afforded full marriage equality. Ohio and the United States of America can and should ensure that everyone can love and marry who they choose. This does not force any religious institution to sanction these marriages, but it does say that all Americans are equal under the law. This is a founding principle of this country and it should remain intact. “All of our sons and daughters, brothers and sisters, nieces and nephews, friends and neighbors should be able to live and work with the same rights and benefits as everyone else. I stand with you as we work to usher in this long-overdue change.” ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
04.25.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan, Co-Chairman of the Military Mental Health Caucus, today co-sponsored the bi-partisan Veterans Mental Health Accessibility Act, which was introduced by Congressman Matt Cartwright (PA). Currently, veterans face a five-year window in which they must seek treatment for mental illnesses before losing their higher priority status. This legislation would eliminate the five-year window and allow veterans to seek treatment for service-connected mental illnesses, regardless of when their conditions manifest themselves. "Too many veterans are serving their countries and coming home to take their own lives. We need to remain committed to providing these veterans with the health care services they earned, including mental health services,” said Congressman Ryan. Currently the VA offers healthcare treatment and services to our nation’s veterans who suffer from service-related physical or mental disabilities. While the diagnosis of physical injuries typically is made before or shortly after separation from the military, mental illnesses may not manifest themselves until years later. As the United States military and the VA continue to improve treatment for those who have served, there remains a gap for veterans struggling with mental illnesses. The Veterans Mental Health Accessibility Act would ensure that the services and treatments available to recently discharged veterans are made available to all who have served in combat. This bill maintains the role of the VA in treating service-related disorders and allows its healthcare professionals to diagnose mental disorders and illnesses according to established procedures. # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
04.24.2013	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan is announcing today that the Village of Lakemore Fire Department, The Howland Township Fire Department and the Liberty Township Fire Department have each been awarded Operations and Safety grants through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Department of Homeland Security. “Our first responders are the front line of safety for our communities,” said Congressman Ryan. “These grants are crucial to funding our communities and keeping our safety forces well equipped and on the job. I will continue to advocate for bringing federal dollars back to our communities.” The Lakemore Fire Department received $73.274; the Howland Township Fire Department received $64,519 and the Liberty Township Fire Department received $39,663. The primary goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service organizations. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders to obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. For more information, visit the program’s website. ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
04.24.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement today on the 4th Anniversary of the Edward Kennedy Serve America Act: “I can think of no better way to observe the fourth anniversary of the Edward Kennedy Serve America Act than participate in National Volunteer Week. Americans will give back to their communities through various acts of volunteerism, including Global Youth Service Days, a weekend of young people participating in their communities and around the world to make life better for others. “Here in the 13th District, the HandsOn Volunteer Network of the Valley connects eager volunteers with non-profits and other community outreach programs in need of assistance. Please consider those less fortunate around you and donate some of your valuable time during this national week of service. “Just imagine what we can accomplish together.” ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
04.22.2013	Washington, D.C. – Last Tuesday, Congressman Tim Ryan, a member of the Defense Subcommittee on Appropriations, questioned Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel on the U.S. Air Force's decision to award a major defense contract to a Brazilian government-controlled aerospace conglomerate while Brazil’s government refuses to hand over the alleged killer of an Air Force reservist from Newton Falls, Ohio. The Light Air Support contract was awarded to the Brazilian-based Embraer over Wichita, Kansas- based Beechcraft. Congressman Ryan questioned Hagel on the issue of national security, the risk of losing up to 1,400 highly skilled American jobs, and Brazil’s refusal to extradite an American citizen who murdered her husband, Karl Hoerig, a combat veteran pilot. Congressman Ryan asked Secretary Hagel if he could personally review this award and make an independent determination on whether it should be allowed to stand as a “Program of Record”. If the contract becomes a Program of Record, Brazilian-based Embraer would stand to win billions of dollars in additional contracts. “I don't believe that the initial award should have been made to Embraer, and I have concerns about the fairness of the procurement,” said Congressman Ryan. “More significantly, we have been working with the State Department for the last six years to get Claudia Hoerig extradited back to the United States to face justice. It is difficult for me to see the Brazilian government thumb their nose at the State Department, and then the Defense Department gives them this huge contract.” Beechcraft, which depends upon a strong supply chain that covers 38 different states, protested the Light Air Support (LAS) award because of concerns with the procurement process, but the automatic stay triggered by law was overridden by the Air Force. The initial contract to deliver 20 planes to Afghanistan has a current ceiling of $950 million, and the Air Force has stated in Congressional testimony that as many as 27 countries may purchase this aircraft through the Building Partner Capacity (BPC) program. The value of those awards could be as high as $10 billion. Congressman Ryan added, “We can’t reward bad behavior by giving Brazil this contract. Karl Hoerig served our country and died at the hands of a person now living freely and openly in Brazil. There has to be consequences for harboring fugitives.”See Full Video Here # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
04.17.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan today joined his Democratic Budget Committee Colleagues in sending a letter to House Speaker John Boehner, urging him to immediately appoint budget conferees to negotiate a 2014 budget resolution with the U.S. Senate. The letter was signed by all Democratic members of the House Budget Committee. The full text of the letter is below. April 17, 2013 The Honorable John Boehner Speaker of the House of Representatives H-232, The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Boehner, We write today to strongly urge the immediate appointment of conferees to negotiate a Fiscal Year 2014 reconciled budget resolution with the United States Senate. Last month, the Senate joined the House of Representatives in passing a Concurrent Resolution on the budget. Now that President Obama has provided his spending blueprint for the approaching fiscal year, it is the responsibility of both chambers to promptly organize a conference committee and proceed with budget deliberations under regular order. Clearly, there are aspects of all three proposals that will elicit strong debate between chambers and across the political spectrum. However, the American people, many of whom are still enduring the effects of an economy in recovery, deserve no less than an honest and serious effort by the House and Senate to reconcile differences and move our nation forward by enacting a budget. There are significant differences in opinion on how to best set the budget on a sustainable path, strengthen the economy and create well-paying jobs, and strengthen the programs providing the modest benefits that allow our seniors to live with dignity. Yet, despite those disparate views, there is no excuse for dysfunction in Congress, and there can be no justification for the failure to engage in a meaningful attempt to find common ground. The joint statement issued by Senate Budget Committee Chairwoman Patty Murray and House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan regarding efforts to proceed with regular order was an encouraging step. Section 301 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 sets a statutory deadline of April 15 for Congress to complete action on adopting a joint budget resolution conference report– a deadline that Congress has already missed. It is the responsibility of Congress to complete its business on time. For so many Americans struggling to make ends meet, there can be no further delay. On behalf of these men and women, we respectfully request that you proceed with appointments to a conference committee on the budget resolution. Sincerely, Chris Van Hollen (MD-08), Ranking Member David Cicilline (RI-01) Allyson Schwartz (PA-13) John Yarmuth (KY-03) Bill Pascrell (NJ-08) Tim Ryan (OH-17) Gwen Moore (WI-04) Kathy Castor (FL-11) Jim McDermott (WA-07) Barbara Lee (CA-13) Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08) Mark Pocan (WI-02) Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01) Jared Huffman (CA-02) Tony Cardenas (CA-29) Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) Kurt Schrader (OR-05) ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
04.17.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Tim Ryan joined Congressman John Garamendi (D-CA), in reintroducing the Make It In America: Create Clean Energy Manufacturing Jobs in America Act, H.R. 1524. It would require that clean energy goods and equipment used in projects purchased or paid for by federal taxpayer dollars contain 85 percent American-made content. The bill sets a three-year phase-in schedule for the policy, with American content requirements set at 50 percent in the first fiscal year after enactment and 60 percent in the second. “We have the technology and the ready labor force to manufacture clean energy goods and equipment—so the American taxpayer should not have to see their money go to other countries to do things we can do here,” said Congressman Ryan, Co-Chair of the House Manufacturing Caucus. “In addition, companies that are using production or investment tax credits should maintain or create American jobs. We can’t allow companies to use tax credits to ship our jobs overseas.” “During good times and bad, booms and busts, America invests billions of dollars in our infrastructure. We know that clean energy is an absolutely essential part of our future, yet under current law, much of our tax dollars are directly shipped to China, the European Union, and other competitors to purchase equipment manufactured abroad. Our government is directly off-shoring too many American jobs, and that must change,” said Congressman Garamendi. “When we’re using our limited tax money, we better prioritize American-made goods and equipment. That’s the intent behind the Make It In America: Create Clean Energy Manufacturing Jobs in America Act.” H.R. 1524 would also set an 85 percent American content requirement for companies that use the Investment Tax Credit and the Production Tax Credit. The following Members of Congress are original cosponsors of H.R. 1524: Representatives Rob Andrews (D-NJ), John Conyers (D-MI), Joseph Crowley (D-NY), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), John Duncan (R-TN), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Brian Higgins (D-NY), Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Dan Kildee (D-MI), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Rick Nolan (D-MN), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), and John Yarmuth (D-KY). # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
04.15.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement following the death of his friend and former colleague Congressman Charlie Wilson: "I am deeply saddened by the death of my former colleague Congressman Charlie Wilson. My condolences go out to his family and friends. Surely, this is a difficult time for them, and they are in my thoughts and prayers. "Congressman Wilson was a respected leader in Washington, and in Ohio’s 6th District. He never stopped fighting for his constituents, and was a man of great character. I admired his unwavering dedication to his constituents back home. Ohio has lost a true public servant today." # # #
04.11.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement today on the 48th Anniversary of the Elementary & Secondary Education Act: Today, we celebrate the 48th Anniversary of the Elementary & Secondary Education Act, legislation that paved the way for sweeping reforms that closed achievement gaps and sent millions in federal funds to struggling school districts to ensure a fair playing field for all school children. Still, there is more to be done. On February 27th, along with eight of my Congressional colleagues, I sent a letter to Education Secretary Arne Duncan urging him to include Social and Emotional Learning programs in future education proposals. With President Obama prioritizing public education in his recently released Federal Budget, it’s only appropriate that today, on the anniversary of ESEA, we take the next step to reforming our education system and giving America’s youth the education and future they deserve. # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
04.11.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Tim Ryan (OH-13), Joe Crowley (NY-14), Richard Neal (MA-1), Carolyn McCarthy (NY-4), Joe Kennedy III (MA-4) and Bill Keating (MA-9), along with former Congressman and Irish immigration advocate Bruce Morrison, joined together in a press conference to express strong support for comprehensive immigration reform. The members joined the calls of thousands of pro-immigration reform advocates that converged today on Washington, D.C., calling for adoption of comprehensive immigration reform. Irish immigrants have a long, proud tradition in the U.S., contributing to our society at every level and helping to shape our nation into what it is today. Today’s immigrants have carried on this legacy, but unfortunately many are now without legal status. According to current estimates, there are 50,000 undocumented Irish immigrants in the U.S. “It is time to reframe an often emotional debate to one that focuses on the fact that legal immigration brings significant cultural and economic gains to the US. It is important to the Irish-American community – and to the nation at-large. Our faith communities and our businesses are calling for comprehensive reform, and both parties need to commit themselves to get this work done. The time to act is now,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Immigration reform doesn’t affect just one nationality or one ethnic group – it affects us all,” said Rep. Joe Crowley. “Right now there are immigrants from all around the world – including Ireland – here in our country, hoping for the opportunity to come out of the shadows, live and work without fear, and give back to their community. They are business owners, students and families who want nothing more than to continue a long and proud tradition of coming to America and becoming part of the fabric of our society. And, that’s what we are working toward with comprehensive immigration reform.” “I believe Congress can act in a bipartisan manner and can pass comprehensive immigration reform this year. Our current immigration system is simply not working and it needs to be fixed. A legal path to citizenship must be created for these 11 million aspiring Americans, including the 50,000 undocumented Irish. The vast majority of Americans want to see action taken on this important issue now," said Congressman Richard E. Neal. “Whether it’s work visas, family unification or access to higher education, the Irish along with every immigrant group here today are facing tough obstacles in their quest to become full and productive members of American society. This is a nation of immigrants and we’re all stronger when we treat everyone with dignity and respect, and that’s why we are united in supporting comprehensive immigration reform,” said Congresswoman Carolyn McCarthy. “Immigration reform is not just an Irish cause or a Hispanic cause or any one group’s cause – it’s an American cause,” said Congressman Joe Kennedy. “In the weeks and months ahead we will be fighting harder than ever for a country that finds its spirit and strength in diversity.” “Like many nationalities, the Irish have many undocumented immigrants in our midst who are trapped by complex rules from becoming legal. We need a comprehensive bill that provides them with legal status, so that they can continue to contribute to our communities while living within the law. And we need an immigration system for the future that allows immigrants to come legally in sufficient numbers to provide the new energy and new workers that America continues to need,” said former Congressman Bruce Morrison. “The stories of our country’s Irish immigrants are shared tales of the pursuit for a better life. I was proud to be one of the many Irish-American voices that must be heard as we progress toward comprehensive immigration reform, and I remain committed to working with my colleagues in Congress to further this conversation,” said Congressman Bill Keating. ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
04.10.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement today in response to the release of President Obama’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2014: “President Obama’s 2014 budget proposal is a balanced document that provides a way forward and should find common ground with my Republican colleagues. I don’t agree with everything in the President’s budget, but I do agree with his proposals for energy independence and pre-school education for all of our children. The President also knows that job creation is job one—and this budget provides funding for manufacturing hubs that build on the success of the National Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute in Youngstown. The President’s budget proposal includes money for vital research in health care, and the building of roads and bridges—the kinds of investments that will create jobs, grow our economy, and reduce the deficit in a way that is both responsible and balanced. I applaud the President for presenting a budget that lifts the burden of sequester. Now it is up to Speaker Boehner to appoint budget conferees so we can get down to the business of fiscal responsibility.” ###
04.09.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today as we mark Equal Pay Day, Congressman Tim Ryan is calling on the Republican leadership to support and pass the Paycheck Fairness Act, of which he is an original cosponsor along with 191 of his Democratic Congressional colleagues. Almost 50 years ago, President John F. Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act to ensure that women should are paid what they deserve. Despite the Equal Pay Act, women’s wages are still not equal to those of men, with women earning only 77 cents for every dollar earned by men. In Ohio, the ratio is the same 77 percent—and according to a 2011 study, the former 17th Congressional District of Ohio showed women earning only 76 percent of what men earned. “This is about equality and justice for women—as well as raising the living standard of our working families,” said Congressman Ryan. “It is common sense that women and men should earn an equal income when they are doing equal work. Simply put, woman who are paid less have less to reinvest in our economy. It’s time for Republicans to join Democrats in standing up for America’s women’s rights and help us pass the Paycheck Fairness Act.” Achieving equal pay for women has been one of the top priorities of Democrats. In January 2009, the Democratic-led 111th Congress sent to the President’s desk the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act – and it became the first bill signed into law by President Obama. The Paycheck Fairness Act strengthens and closes loopholes in the nearly 50-year-old Equal Pay Act, including providing effective remedies to women who are not being paid equal wages for equal work. The House of Representatives has twice passed this bill—but Republicans in the Senate blocked its passage. In 2012, Republicans in both the House and Senate voted to block the bill. With women continuing to fall behind men in wages, it’s time for Republican leadership to stop impeding progress and stand with Democrats to demand equal pay for women. # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
04.04.2013	Canfield, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) will attend and have a speaking roll at the Ohio National Guard Call to Duty Deployment Ceremony for approximately 130 servicemembers of the 838th Military Police Company. “It is an honor for me to be able to help pay tribute to the sacrifices these servicemembers and their families have already made, and will continue to make in their current deployment. We can all rest assured that our country is safer thanks to the work these true American heroes do every day,” said Congressman Ryan. “My thoughts and prayers are with the 323rd Military Police Company and their families as they leave to serve and defend our country.” WHO: Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13) WHAT: Ohio National Guard Call to Duty Deployment Ceremony WHEN: Thursday, Apr. 4, 2013 -- 12:00 PM EST WHERE: Old North Church Worship Center 7105 Herbert Road Canfield, Ohio 44406 ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
04.01.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement today in response to the United States International Trade Commission Investigation into the illegal dumping of steel products into the United States. A petition was filed yesterday with the ITC by Thomas Steel Strip Corporation of Warren: “I strongly support the petition filed by Thomas Steel Strip of Warren, who, along with the United Steelworkers of America, believe their industry is unfairly threatened by imports from Japan of diffusion-annealed, nickel-plated steel flat-rolled products. “I have had the privilege on more than one occasion to testify on behalf of the American worker before the U.S. International Trade Commission. We need to ensure that unfair trading practices don’t put people out of work. I have always said that the American worker is the best in the world—all we need to compete is a level playing field.” ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
03.28.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement today in response to reports of an agreement that would keep the Warren Lamp Plant open: “I am pleased that General Electric and the IUE-CWA have reached a tentative agreement to keep Warren’s Ohio Lamp Plant open. I have been working closely with the company and the union to find a way to continue the work that is being done there. I am optimistic that we have come to a deal to which all parties can agree. “I recently participated in the Rally for the Valley on Courthouse Square in Warren and called for continued investment in America’s manufacturing capacity. This agreement is significant in that it keeps workers on the job and builds new products. We need to continue the fight to keep manufacturing jobs in our local communities.” ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
03.27.2013	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan met with German Chancellor Angela Merkel earlier today as part of a series of meetings led by the Congressman as part of the 30th Annual Congress-Bundestag Seminar of the Congressional Study Group on Germany. In addition to Merkel, the group met with members of the German Bundestag, members of the European Parliament and German businesses. Congressman Ryan will host a German Delegation to Ohio in 2014. During the meeting with Chancellor Merkel, Congressman Ryan spoke with the Chancellor about Germany purchasing liquefied natural gas (LNG) from the United States. Russia is currently Germany's largest supplier of natural gas. “It was an honor to lead this delegation to Germany. After an hour dialogue with Chancellor Merkel on various topics, we had an opportunity to speak about the issue of our natural gas supply in Ohio. I believe she is very interested in increasing competition for natural gas and buying it from a strong strategic ally that shares their values, especially an appreciation for the rule of law,” said Congressman Ryan. “If we play our cards properly, the natural gas boom in our region is an opportunity to both sell this resource abroad and create jobs at home.” Congressman Ryan added, “I will continue to use my position as head of the Congressional Study Group on German and my relationships with German officials and businesses to maximize exports to Europe, as well as show the world why the Tech Belt region is a good place to invest their money and grow their companies.” The Congressional Study Group on Germany, a bipartisan organization, is an international program of the U.S. Association of Former Members of Congress (FMC) and is celebrating its 30th Anniversary this year. The mission of the FMC is to connect members of Congress with foreign legislators to explore together matters of mutual importance. # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
03.22.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement today after House Republicans passed a budget led by Paul Ryan for the third year in a row. “The budget passed today in the Republican-led House of Representatives fails the test of leadership in almost every way. This budget plan puts at risk our economic recovery—and for the third straight year—ends the Medicare guarantee. In addition, this budget repeals provisions of the Affordable Care Act and proposes a plan that would raise taxes on the middle class and give the top 1% additional tax breaks. “My fellow Democrats and I are focused on creating jobs and strengthening the middle class by investing in education, research and building the infrastructure needed in America. These are the investments that will provide prosperity for our country and put our workers on the job. “We need to enact a plan that creates jobs, grows our economy, and brings down our deficit in a balanced way. Republicans had a chance to do that today—and failed.” # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
03.20.2013	WASHINGTON – Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-Mich.) today joined a bipartisan group of members from the House to introduce legislation to crack down on currency manipulation by China and other nations. The House legislation already has 101 Democratic and Republican co-sponsors. The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act of 2013 seeks to level the playing field for American workers and businesses by providing the administration the necessary tools to address the issue of undervaluation of currency by our trading partners. A nearly identical bill garnered 234 co-sponsors in the 112th Congress. (Background and details of legislation below.) “Currency manipulation by our trading partners has been going on for far too long, with American workers feeling the impact through lost jobs and lower wages,” said Ways and Means Ranking Member Levin (D-MI), who joined Reps. Tim Murphy (R-PA), Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Mo Brooks (R-AL) at a press conference to announce the bill’s introduction. “This bill includes measures to provide the Administration with the additional tools necessary to enforce the rules of global trade and is consistent with our WTO obligations. It also helps strengthen the Administration’s efforts to develop a multilateral framework for addressing this global competitiveness issue.” “American manufacturing is ripe for a resurgence,” said Congressman Tim Murphy (R-PA). “Our country boasts one of the most talented workforces in the world, but it’s time to put in place clear standards that give American manufacturers — and the working men and women of this country — a fair shot at competing and succeeding in a free global economy. Passage of the bipartisan Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act is step one. I call on my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to act promptly to give the Department of Commerce the necessary tools to build honest and fair trade relations that will spur an economic revival.” “We need to hold countries like China accountable so that they don’t exploit an unfair advantage through currency manipulation and other trade subsidies,” said Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH). The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act will keep our manufacturing sector thriving and keep the United States competitive in the global marketplace. We owe it to the American people to take action on the currency imbalance we have with China. This legislation has bipartisan support, will address our trade imbalance and help create the jobs we need here at home.” “Americans cannot stand idly by and watch other nations ignore the rules, undermining our economy via unfair trade practices,” said Congressman Mo Brooks (R-AL). “The American economy can do great things, but we cannot ask Americans to compete with an opponent who is playing with a stacked deck. That’s why I’m supporting the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act, which will hold countries with unfair currency practices accountable, and promote economic growth for both the United States and her trading partners.” Background Currency manipulation policies are a drag on U.S. economic growth and job creation, making exports from various countries cheaper than they would otherwise would be. The Peterson Institute for International Economics, in a December 2012 report, noted that “half or more of excess US unemployment — the extent to which current joblessness exceeds the full employment level—is attributable to currency manipulation by foreign governments.” As a general matter, under the U.S. countervailing duty law, remedial tariffs can be imposed on imports benefitting from foreign government subsidies for export, if it is shown that imports benefitting from such subsidies cause or threaten injury to a U.S. industry producing the same or similar products. To date, the Department of Commerce has declined to investigate any foreign government’s currency practices as a countervailable subsidy. The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act ends a long-standing Commerce practice that is far more restrictive than required under U.S. law and WTO disciplines. In the past, Commerce has resisted finding an export subsidy if the subsidy is not limited exclusively to circumstances of export (i.e., when non-exporters may benefit). The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act precludes Commerce from imposing this bright-line rule and, instead, requires Commerce to consider all the facts in making its determination of export contingency. The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act also provides important guidance to Commerce in assessing whether a “benefit” exists in circumstances involving material currency undervaluation resulting from government intervention. Specifically, Commerce is directed to assess “benefit” in terms of the additional currency the exporter receives as a result of the undervaluation and to use widely-accepted IMF methods for determining the level of undervaluation. Full text of the bill is available here. ###
03.20.2013	Washington, D.C. — Congressmen Tim Ryan (OH-13), Sander Levin (MI-09), Tim Murphy (PA-18) and Mo Brooks (AL-05) today announced they will host a press conference on Wednesday, March 20th to discuss introduction of their Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act, which holds foreign nations accountable for the illegal manipulation of currency exchange rates. WHAT: Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act Press Conference WHEN: Wednesday, March 20th at 11:00 A.M. WHERE: House Radio-TV Gallery, Studio B WHO: Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) Congressman Tim Murphy (PA-18) Congressman Sander Levin (MI-09) Congressman Mo Brooks (AL-05) About The Currency Reform For Fair Trade Act: Due to illegal trading practices, Chinese exporters currently receive a 20-40 price discount against US-made products like steel. By keeping the value of the Renminbi artificially low, the Chinese government is unfairly propping up its own exporters at the expense of a free market and the American economy. Currency manipulation by China has led to a massive trade deficit, and according to the Peterson Institute for International Economics, cost the American economy at least one million jobs. The Currency Reform For Fair Trade Act holds foreign governments like China accountable for this unfair trading practice by applying a fair and predictable standard for currency misalignment. The legislation gives the Department of Commerce the authority to apply countervailing import duties against unfairly traded imports if a U.S. industry is injured by an undervalued currency. The bill reverses a current Commerce Department practice that has precluded it from treating foreign government currency practices as an export subsidy while also directing the department on how to measure subsidies provided to foreign producers through currency undervaluation. By forcing China to play by the rules, this legislation would strengthen the hands of American workers and businesses, helping them to compete and succeed in the global marketplace. The legislation empowers American manufacturers and workers to seek remedies under current trade laws when injured by a foreign country’s currency manipulation ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
03.19.2013	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan and Congressman James Langevin yesterday introduced the Innovation Inspiration School Grant Program, which will provide federal support for programs that provide hands-on science, technology, engineering and mathematics training to students. This grant program will increase access to careers in science, technology and math by providing states and schools critical resources to partner with local industries in supporting the participation of students in STEM competitions such as robotics programs that allow students to build robots and compete against other schools in robotics competitions. These programs inspire young people to graduate high school, enter the workforce, or go onto college to major in science and engineering and pursue careers in these fields. “In today’s global economy, American students must have access to better STEM training, have the opportunity to be mentored by professionals in the field and be engaged in the study of these critical issues at deeper, more meaningful levels. Unfortunately, too few students are pursuing education in these areas, or are being outperformed by international competitors. I am proud to join Congressman Langevin in introducing this legislation to promote STEM education in schools around the country,” said Congressman Ryan. “This program recognizes that our country’s future competitiveness and prosperity depend upon ensuring students obtain the skills that expanding industries demand,” said Langevin, who also co-chairs the bipartisan Congressional Career and Technical Education Caucus. “We can do so much better than the status quo, but it requires outside the box thinking to prepare them to excel in an economy in which an increasing number of opportunities necessitate STEM training. It’s critical that policymakers encourage our educators to find innovative ways to engage youth in these fields, and I thank Congressman Ryan for his tireless work in support of this effort,” said Congressman Langevin. “We greatly appreciate Congressmen Ryan and Langevin’s leadership on STEM education. This legislation seeks to ensure that schools across America have the resources to participate in programs like FIRST, thereby enabling more students to have the opportunity to be inspired by science and technology and consider STEM careers,” said FIRST Founder Dean Kamen. According to the Department of Labor (DOL), a major key to continuing United States competitiveness in an increasingly global economic environment is a growing and improving Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) workforce. Projections by the DOL show employment in STEM occupations are expected to increase faster that employment in non-STEM occupations in the coming decade. In fact, it is expected that employment in computer and mathematical science occupations will grow more than twice as fast as all other occupations in the economy. In 2009, only 18 percent of bachelor’s degrees awarded were in STEM fields. In today’s global economy, American students must have access to better STEM training, and have the opportunity to be mentored by professionals in the field, which encourages the pursuit of STEM careers. The Innovation Inspiration School Grant Program will help provide that access. # # #
03.18.2013	Champion, Ohio -- Congressman Tim Ryan will congratulate the Champion High School robotics team for advancing in competition and preview upcoming legislation that will create the Innovation Inspiration School Grant Program. When: Monday, March 18, 2013 Where: Robotics Classroom, Champion High School, 5976 Mahoning Ave. NW Warren (Champion) OH Media Availability: 12:15 p.m. -- 1 p.m. # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
03.15.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressmen Tim Ryan (OH-13) and Bill Johnson (OH-6) have founded the Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) Export Working Group for the 113th Congress. In the wake of a recent Department of Energy report on LNG exports and a joint Congressional letter to Secretary Chu encouraging expedited approval of exports, this group’s mission will be to continue to advocate for expanded exports of domestic Liquefied Natural Gas as well as conduct meetings and briefings to keep Members apprised of new developments on the issue of LNG exports. Other members of the group include: Republican Representatives James Lankford (OK-05), Mike Pompeo (KS-04), and Cory Gardner (CO-04); and Democratic Representatives Mike Doyle (PA-14), Jim Matheson (UT-04), and Pete Gallego (TX-23). “Expanding LNG exports makes too much sense to continue to delay. Economically, the potential in U.S. LNG exports can have an enormous effect not only here locally, but in all corners of our country. That is why Congressman Johnson and I, along with the other members of the LNG Export Working Group, feel so strongly that the Department of Energy should process pending waivers. I understand the various concerns and fears surrounding expanded exports, however I am confident that DOE has the tools to maintain integrity in the Natural Gas market and protect American consumers,” said Congressman Ryan. “Right now, America – especially Eastern & Southeastern Ohio – has the opportunity to grow our economy and create jobs through the development of our own God-given natural resources, like natural gas. By opening this important resource to world markets, hardworking Americans will benefit from the thousands of jobs and real economic growth that will result. This bipartisan LNG working group is an important part of implementing an ‘all of the above’ energy plan that creates jobs, lowers energy prices, and takes America closer to energy independence,” said Congressman Johnson. Throughout the country, there are many natural gas import terminals that sit idle due to the glut of natural gas being produced in the U.S. Currently there are over a dozen facilities who have applied for long-term agreements to export LNG to Non-Free Trade Agreement countries. Should they be approved, many of these facilities will undergo a conversion from an import to an export terminal. According to the Center for Liquefied Natural Gas, which cites the U.S. International Trade Administration, every $1 billion in exports could result in more than 5,000 new jobs, many of which would be permanent manufacturing jobs. Therefore, $13 billion to $25 billion worth of LNG exports – the current range of investment possibilities – could mean the creation of between 70,000 and 140,000 new American jobs. # # #
03.12.2013	Warren, OH – On Friday, Congressman Ryan and five of his Congressional Colleagues sent the following letter to the Honorable Mauro Vieira, Ambassador to Brazil, regarding the case of the State of Ohio v Claudia C. Hoerig: The original letter can be found here, or the text can be found below: March 7, 2013 The Honorable Mauro Vieira Ambassador, Federative Republic of Brazil Brazilian Embassy in Washington, D.C. 30006 Massachusetts Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20008 RE: Hoerig Case Dear Ambassador Vieira: We are writing you regarding the case of State of Ohio v Claudia C. Hoerig. You may recall that according to an April 12, 2007 affidavit, Mrs. Hoerig purchased a Smith & Wesson .357 five shot revolver and practiced shooting the weapon the same day. Three days later, she shot her husband, Karl Hoerig, three times in the back of the head. Mrs. Hoerig took advantage of her murdered husband’s status as a pilot to flee to Brazil where she has since found sanctuary. We appreciate your 2011 letter to Congressman Tim Ryan regarding this topic, and we understand your constitution currently prevents extradition of Brazilian nationals. However, Mrs. Hoerig freely and willingly renounced her Brazilian citizenship in 1999 to become a U.S. citizen. We understand that in order for this fact to allow for Mrs. Hoerig’s extradition your domestic courts must take additional action revoking her citizenship. We were very encouraged to discover what appears to be an August 23, 2012 posting from the Minister of Justice putting Mrs. Hoerig on notice that if she does not present a defense within 30 days she may lose her citizenship. This development gave us the impression that we would be able to work together soon to ensure Mrs. Hoerig stands trial in the United States for the crimes she was charged with almost six years ago. The family of Karl Hoerig deserves as much. Would you please respond and provide as much information to us as you can regarding the citizenship proceedings concerning Mrs. Hoerig, and an update on the status of the U.S. request for her extradition. Given the circumstances, we are hopeful that Brazil will cooperate with U.S. authorities to ensure that justice is served. We hereby request your prompt assistance in bringing justice to this case and look forward to hearing from you. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress Bill Johnson Member of Congress Steve Stivers Member of Congress Bill Pascrell, Jr. Member of Congress Walter B. Jones Member of Congress Trent Franks Member of Congress cc: U.S. Department of State, Secretary John Kerry Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
03.07.2013	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan today voted against the FY13 spending bill proposed by the Republican House leadership as it allows the indiscriminate across-the-board sequestration cuts to remain in place. The bill passed the House of Representatives 267 – 151. These detrimental cuts will have severe impacts across the government, cutting programs that protect the public health and safety, promote and develop our workforce, and educate the next generation of Americans. “We had a chance today to overturn the sequester, adequately fund our government, and bring some stability to our economy,” said Congressman Ryan. “We had a chance today to make sure that the research and development projects vital to our nation’s defense go forward, and make sure that all students in Head Start can continue to be educated. We had a chance today to ensure proper cancer screenings will continue—and that the Affordable Health Care Act can be properly implemented. What my Republican friends chose to do is to continue to govern by manufactured crisis, continue the harmful sequester and continue to govern irresponsibly. There is a better way forward.” The enactment of this spending bill would mean another $7 billion cut to Labor, Health and Education programs, over and above the over $9 billion cut by the sequester. In the past ten years, over $12 billion has been cut from these programs, and today’s bill allows further cuts to Head Start, which could cut as many as 70,000 children from the program. Job training programs face an additional $282 million cut, as would instructional services for over one million struggling disadvantaged students. This bill will also result in 25,000 fewer breast and cervical cancer screenings for low-income women. # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
03.01.2013	Washington – Today, Congressman Ryan made the following statement on his vote in support of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (VAWA Reauthorization) and its passage: “Women have been forced to wait more than 500 days for Congress to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act, but today their long wait finally ended. I am pleased that Democrats and Republicans came together today to extend this piece of legislation that should never have been partisan. VAWA keeps women safer; it gives the Federal government, state governments, service agencies and law enforcement agencies the tools they need to better combat sexual assault, domestic violence and stalking. These are the types of common sense laws that Americans sent us to Congress to pass.” ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan P: (330) 717-8103
03.01.2013	Washington – Today, Rep. Tim Ryan, Rep. Marcia Fudge, and Rep. Joyce Beatty sent the following letter to Governor John Kasich seeking his help to encourage Ohio’s Congressional Republican Delegation to come back to the Sequester negotiating table to support a common sense, bipartisan solution to avoid the devastation which the sequester would do to Ohio. The original letter can be found here, or the text can be found below: February 27, 2013 The Honorable John Kasich Governor, State of Ohio Riffe Center, 30th Floor 77 South High Street Columbus, Ohio 43215-6117 Dear Governor Kasich: As you know, Washington is currently engaged in the latest round of negotiations to avoid a devastating series of automatic cuts – called sequester – that will begin taking effect on March 1st, promising to threaten hundreds of thousands of middle class jobs, crucial services for children, seniors, women, and our heroes in the Armed Services. Ohioans understand that the sequester poses an immediate and serious danger to the citizens of our state. In an effort to do everything we can to seek compromise, we are seeking your help to encourage Ohio’s Congressional Republican Delegation to come back to the negotiating table to support a common sense, bipartisan solution to avoid the devastation which the sequester would do to Ohio. If Republicans and Democrats in Washington fail to cooperate, hundreds of millions of dollars will be slashed from Ohio’s economy, harming local teachers, victims of domestic violence, job search assistance programs, and even our military readiness. As Governor of Ohio, we trust you understand the significance the sequester will have on our economy, and how we must all join together to work in a bipartisan fashion to do everything we can to avoid this self-inflicted wound from partisan bickering. To assist your office, we have included a fact sheet with information about the practical harm which the sequester would have on both Ohio, and the nation. Unfortunately, many Republicans in Congress are considering allowing the sequester to occur because they are adamantly opposed to asking for the wealthy to pay just a little more by closing tax loopholes. No plan to avoid sequester is perfect, but President Obama has already put forward a long-term, balanced plan to both avoid the sequester and cut the deficit by another $1.5 trillion overall. This figure is in addition to the $2.5 trillion in deficit reduction the President as already signed into law. Compromise is always difficult, but Democrats are prepared to meet Republicans halfway by supporting a balanced plan that includes spending cuts in combination with new tax revenue to reduce the deficit. We welcomed your recent comment, “you’ve got to steer clear of mindless partisanship…they don’t give you an award for being a partisan.” We entirely agree with you, but true bipartisanship requires bold action and a willingness to speak out. It is our hope that you are willing to leave politics at the door, and leverage your close personal relationship with Speaker Boehner and the other members of Ohio’s Republican Congressional Delegation to encourage them to support a balanced plan that includes both spending reduction and new revenues. With Ohio’s schools set to lose over $25 million this year alone; 2,500 Ohio children set to lose Head Start services; and 26,000 Ohio civilian Department of Defense employees set to be furloughed, time is running short to speak out. With your help, perhaps we can come together, and avoid the damage sequester will have on our great state. Thank you in advance for joining with us to protect the people of Ohio. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress Marcia Fudge Member of Congress Joyce Beatty Member of Congress Fact Sheet on the Impact of March 1st Cuts to Ohio Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 (Youngstown) P: (202) 225-5261 (Washington, D.C.) C: (330) 717-8103
02.27.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Wednesday, Congressman Tim Ryan joined eight other Members of Congress in sending a letter to Secretary of Education Arne Duncan regarding the importance of implementing Social and Emotional Learning programs in new department educational initiatives. Through statistical evidence and proven results, Congressman Ryan showed how SEL programs improve student success in the classroom, while reducing inappropriate classroom behavior and other student stressors. The letter called on Secretary Duncan to seriously consider the educational future of America’s children when implementing educational policies. The text of the letter is below: The original letter can be found here, or the text can be found below: February 27, 2013 Honorable Arne Duncan Secretary, U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20202 RE: Social Emotional Learning Dear Secretary Duncan: We applaud the Department of Education’s renewed emphasis on early childhood education and school safety. As you begin work to create a comprehensive plan to improve school climates, we believe we have a unique opportunity to improve our children’s school environment by including Social and Emotional Learning (SEL) in the proposal. As you know, SEL is an established form of learning that promotes the development of core personal competencies: Self-awareness-- knowing your strengths and weaknesses Self-management-- being able to stay in control and persevere through challenges Social awareness-- understanding and empathizing with others Relationship skills-- being able to work in teams and resolve conflicts Responsible decision making-- making ethical and safe choices A landmark meta-analysis of 213 SEL programs with a combined sample of more than 270,000 students clearly established the effectiveness of SEL programs across a number of areas critical to the success of students. Students scored 11 percentile points higher on standardized achievement tests, a significant improvement, relative to peers not receiving SEL programming. In addition, studies show SEL programs help positively impact issues that inhibit students’ ability to learn, be healthy, and be safe. Namely, SEL programs curb problem behaviors, such as alcohol and drug use, truancy, violence among students, and bullying. They also work to reduce students’ emotional stress and anxiety, We were encouraged by the recent recommendations by the White House to create safer and more nurturing school atmospheres by proposing a new $50 million initiative to help 8,000 more schools train their teachers and other staff to implement these strategies to improve student behavior. We believe SEL programs would be an ideal component in these efforts to help continue the commitment of the federal government to improve our school environments while emphasizing the importance of teaching our children the social and emotional skills necessary for college and career success. In addition, the White House’s recommendations emphasized that “exposure to community violence can impact children’s mental health and development,” and called for $25 million to improve mental health services. SEL programs have been shown to have a very positive impact on improving the mental health of both students and teachers. SEL programs teach students how to manage stress and strengthen their emotional response. We believe that social and emotional learning is not a luxury in our schools; it is essential. As the Department of Education begins to respond to the White House’s recommendations to improve school climate and students’ mental health services, we urge you to take a closer look at the positive impact social and emotional learning can provide to school districts and communities around the country. Thank you for consideration of this important issue, and we look forward to working with you and learning how the Department of Education intends to use SEL to improve school environments. Sincerely, Congressman Tim Ryan Congressman Charlie Rangel Congressman Michael Honda Congresswoman Julia Brownley Congressman Matt Cartwright Congresswoman Barbara Lee Congressman James Langevin Congressman Jim McDermott Congressman Joseph Kennedy Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 C: (330) 717-8103
02.26.2013	Washington – Today, Congressman Ryan submitted the following testimony for the record to Chairman Ron Amstutz and Ranking Member Vernon Sykes. The Ohio House of Representatives Finance and Appropriations Committee held a hearing on House Bill 51 which concerns funding for the Ohio Turnpike. An official copy of Rep. Ryan's testimony can be found here and it can be found in text form below: Representative Ron Amstutz Chairman, Finance and Appropriations Committee Ohio House of Representatives 77 S. High St, 13th Floor Columbus, OH 43215 Representative Vernon Sykes Ranking Member, Finance and Appropriations Committee Ohio House of Representatives 77 S. High St, 10th Floor Columbus, OH 43215 RE: Testimony on House Bill 51 Dear Chairman Amstutz and Ranking Member Sykes: Thank you for allowing me the opportunity to submit this testimony. For nearly 60 years, the Ohio Turnpike has been one of the most reliable, best maintained roads in the state of Ohio. Because most toll revenue of the asset is used for its maintenance, the Ohio Turnpike has a higher level of quality than most roads under the Ohio Department of Transportation's supervision. The Ohio Turnpike has bipartisan support to remain in its current form, and serves as a vital business asset to ship goods all across this country. Over the past two years, a number of proposals to alter the Turnpike have been discussed which I believe would have a detrimental impact on the quality of the road, ultimately harming Ohio’s economy. I have spoken out many times against the Kasich Administration’s early discussion of privatization and other changes to the Turnpike that could result in a raid of its assets. Several members of the Ohio Congressional Delegation have expressed concern over the State’s potential plans for the Turnpike as well. Now that privatization has been ruled out, we are seeing another proposal that attempts to fix a problem that does not exist. I question whether the Governor's plan to load Ohio with nearly $1.5 billion in new bonding debt is the prudent, long-term financial decision for funding transportation projects in our state, and I have significant concerns about proposals that will allow turnpike revenue to be used for projects other than the turnpike. The Ohio Turnpike is a major boost to the economies of both the Mahoning Valley and northern Ohio. When Governor Kasich proposed the current plan he claimed that 90% of the funds would be used in Northern Ohio. Yet the transportation budget under consideration contains no guarantee that these funds will be used on projects in northern Ohio. Governor Kasich's own Director of Transportation rescinded previous promises to dedicate any new revenue obtained from the Ohio Turnpike to those regions supporting the road. This sends a troubling message about the intentions of the turnpike bonding plan. The Ohio Turnpike has been a powerful engine of development for northern Ohio which the Governor’s plan now jeopardizes. I am further concerned that the Governor’s plan does not include any caps on tolls and that the transportation budget makes no additional investments in public transportation or other modes of transportation that could lead to economic development and job creation in our cities. With the many cities in Ohio that are still struggling, job creation should be issue number one. We also need to ensure that the economic recovery of the state stays on track. With companies like General Motors transporting the Chevy Cruze across Ohio, and being the largest single source of income for the Turnpike, now is not the time to jeopardize what we already have—affordable, reliable transportation across the northern part of Ohio—in return for one-time revenue. Ohio has a turnpike that is safe, reliable and financially stable. We have problems in the state that desperately need our attention--job creation, school funding, and poverty to name just a few. Raiding the Turnpike’s coffers for one-time revenue would be a tragic case of revenue-hungry politicians in Columbus ‘eating the seed corn’ at the expense of future generations of Ohioans. I hope you will reconsider this shortsighted plan by instead allowing the Turnpike’s revenue to continue to benefit the Turnpike and its users. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress Cc: Representative Jeff McClain, Vice Chair Representative Richard Adams Representative Marlene Anielski Representative Nickie Antonio Representative Mike Ashford Representative Peter Beck Representative John Carney Representative Kathleen Clyde Representative Timothy Derickson Representative Mike Dovilla Representative Denise Driehaus Representative Mike Duffey Representative Mike Foley Representative Ann Gonzales Representative Cheryl Grossman Representative David Hall Representative Bill Hayes Representative Matt Lundy Representative Ron Maag Representative Ross McGregor Representative Debbie Phillips Representative Dan Ramos Representative Alicia Reece Representative Cliff Rosenberger Representative Barbara Sears Representative Ryan Smith Representative Robert Sprague Representative Peter Stautberg Representative Gerald Stebelton Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 C: (330) 717-8103
02.21.2013	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan announces the City of Niles Fire Department is to receive an operations and safety grant of $37,283 through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Department of Homeland Security. “This is great news for the firefighters working to protect our local community,” said Congressman Ryan. “It is important that we make safety of the utmost importance when it comes to the firefighters who put their life on the line every day. These types of federal grants are important to ensure that local fire departments have adequate funding for the resources they need to keep our community safe. I will continue to fight to bring these grants to Northeast Ohio.” The primary goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service organizations. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders to obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. For more information, visit the program’s website. ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 C: (330) 717-8103
02.14.2013	Congressman Ryan Statement on the Federal Charges that are going to be filed today in the Youngstown Brine Dumping Case Congressman Ryan issued the following statement regarding the expected filing today of charges in the Youngstown brine dumping case: “I continue to be outraged over the allegations that brine and drilling mud were dumped into a tributary of the Mahoning River in Youngstown, but I am reassured that appropriate officials are pursuing the case vigorously. I am supportive of the federal prosecutors involvement, and if the alleged violations occurred, then there must be justice. We can not allow our environment to suffer because of unlawful and immoral actions and we must show any would-be polluters that any infractions will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. I hope that all of the facts in this case will be made public so that federal, state, and local regulators will be better equipped to ensure that our environment is not being harmed. The natural gas industry is thriving and it can be a boon to our economy, but only if the industry adheres to Ohio rules and regulations.” ### Pat LowryCommunications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 C: (330) 717-8103
02.14.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan and Congressman Bill Johnson Introduce "End Immunity for Brazilian Criminals Act" and the "Karl Hoerig Foreign Aid Suspension Act” Bipartisan bills will suspend foreign aid and issuance of visas to Brazilian nationals until Brazil extradites the killer of U.S. Air Force Major Karl Hoerig. (Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) and Congressman Bill Johnson (OH-6) introduced two bills in the House of Representatives last week to persuade Brazil to return Claudia Hoerig to the United States for trial in the murder of her husband, U.S. Air Force Major Karl Hoerig (“HARE-ig”). Brazil refuses to extradite its nationals, even when they are accused of a heinous crime like murder. The “End Immunity for Brazilian Criminals Act” would end the issuance of visas to Brazilian nationals since the U.S. has no recourse to extradite those who would flee back to Brazil after committing crimes. The second bill, the “Karl Hoerig Foreign Aid Suspension Act” would end the approximately $14 million in foreign aid to Brazil. Although Claudia revoked her Brazilian citizenship to become a U.S. citizen 14 years ago, Brazil has still failed to live up to their international obligations to allow Claudia to be brought to justice. The Brazilian constitution explicitly prohibits the extradition of its citizens, undermining the respect for the rule of law that most countries share. While the United States’ policy is to extradite to Brazil persons facing charges in that country, Brazil’s policy is to refrain from extradition of its nationals. As result, Claudia lives free and openly in Brazil, unconcerned with being extradited. Major Hoerig was a decorated combat pilot, with nearly 200 combat missions in Iraq and Afghanistan. In March, 2007, his wife Claudia purchased a Smith & Wesson .357 revolver, and spent an hour practicing at a shooting range. Three days later, police found Major Hoerig’s body in the couple's home in Newton Falls, OH. An autopsy revealed that he was shot in the back of the head while tying his shoes. During those three days, Claudia Hoerig had used Karl's status as a commercial airline pilot to flee the United States for Brazil, where she remains to this day. “I am committed to getting justice for Karl Hoerig and his family—who have now waited almost six years. I continue to talk to the State Department—and I will not let up,” said Congressman Ryan. “If Brazil is going to continue to receive assistance from this country—and continue to have unrestricted travel to the United States, then they need to send Claudia Hoerig back here for trial. We’re going to continue this fight and they will not be able to ‘run the clock out’ on us.” “This legislation is an important step toward seeing justice served in the murder of Major Karl Hoerig, whose wife fled to Brazil after brutally murdering him with a shot to the back of the head. Right now, Brazil is harboring this known murderer, and is refusing to extradite her to the United States,” said Rep. Bill Johnson. “There is no reason why Brazil should continue receiving American foreign aid dollars if it refuses to show basic respect to a friend and ally. Since Brazil has chosen not to extradite Major Hoerig’s wife to the United States to stand trial, this legislation would stop foreign aid to Brazil until the Brazilian government has a change of heart. Major Karl Hoerig was not only a loving father, brother, and son but he bravely served America as a decorated combat pilot in Iraq and Afghanistan and bringing justice to his killer is the least we can do to honor his life.” # # # Pat Lowry (Ryan) P: (330) 717-8103Pat.Lowry@mail.house.gov Michael Tadeo (Johnson) P: (202) 225-5705Michael.Tadeo@mail.house.gov
02.13.2013	Washington D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union Address: “I saw true leadership tonight from the President; he knows the middle class is the heart of America’s economic engine. The middle class and the US economy are fundamentally dependent upon each other, and the only way our economy will continue to grow is if ordinary Americans are prosperous. “The President and I agree that we cannot simply cut our way to economic prosperity; he set forth a plan that will invest in manufacturing, infrastructure, clean energy, and education – while not adding to our national deficit. Over the past three years the manufacturing sector has added nearly 50,000 jobs, and I am certain that number will continue to grow with the President’s plan. In northeastern Ohio, we are already making the investments necessary for a 21st century economy as the Tech Belt and the National Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute in Youngstown create new wealth and new jobs. “I applaud the President’s call to promptly deal with approaching fiscal deadlines through balanced solutions that includes both tax and entitlement reform. We cannot reduce our nation’s debt and deficit solely on the backs of our seniors and the middle class. Congressional Republicans need to join us at the table and help find realistic solutions to our nation’s problems.” ###
02.11.2013	Congressmen Ryan to Meet with Sportsmen Groups to Discuss Gun Legislation (Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan will meet with Denny Malloy of Whitetails Unlimited, and other sportsmen to discuss gun legislation that may come before the U.S. House of Representatives. Congressman Ryan has previously met with 13th Congressional District police officers and prosecutors on the issue. Meeting is Closed Press. Congressman Ryan will be available to speak to the media at the end of the meeting. When: Tuesday, February 12, 2013 Where: Congressman Ryan’s Warren office, 197 West Market Street, downtown. Media Availability: 11:00a.m.—at the conclusion of the meeting. NOTE to Assignment Editors/Reporters: Due to Congressman Ryan’s travel schedule, if you want to speak to the Congressman or record a preview ahead of tomorrow evening’s State of the Union, this will be your only opportunity. # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 C: (330) 717-8103
02.08.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan Applauds New Report on Drug Savings and Use of Preventive Services Under the Affordable Care Act (Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan today applauded a new report from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) which indicated that in 2012, as a result of the passage of the Affordable Care Act, 178,931 Ohio senior citizens in the so-called ‘donut hole’ saved an average of $774 on their prescriptions. In addition, the report shows that 903,150 Ohioans in 2012 received at least one preventive service at no cost to them, and 79,387 Ohioans took advantage of the Annual Wellness Visit provided by the Affordable Care Act. “The Affordable Care Act has lowered costs for our senior citizens, and provided a sense of health and economic security that they need,” said Congressman Ryan. “With the Affordable Care Act, all Americans can now take advantage of wellness care which can have significant health benefits and lead to longer and healthier lives.” Since the passage of the Affordable Care Act in 2010, Medicare beneficiaries who hit the “donut hole” in the Medicare prescription drug benefit received a one-time $250 rebate. In 2011, Medicare beneficiaries began receiving a 50 percent discount on covered brand name drugs, and in 2012, Part D covered 14 percent of the cost of generic drugs in the coverage gap. Coverage for both brand name and generic drugs in the gap will continue to increase over time until 2020, when the coverage gap will be closed. Under the Affordable Care Act, many preventive services are offered free of charge to beneficiaries, with no deductible or co-pay, so that cost is no longer a barrier for seniors who want to stay healthy and treat problems early. # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 C: (330) 717-8103
02.07.2013	Congressman Ryan Blasts Tea Party for Sequester (Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan sharply criticized Tea Party Republicans in the House of Representatives today for their reckless irresponsibility in governing, and said that the damage the sequester will do to the economy in Ohio needs to be laid right at their feet. The sequester, set to take effect on March 1st, would throttle our recovering economy and cause a consistently declining unemployment rate to spike back up to 8 percent. “What Republicans in Congress are doing is not leadership, and their conservative stubbornness will stall any concerted efforts to reach an agreement. House and Senate Republicans say they want to avoid the sequester, but the only solutions they bring to the table put fiscal responsibility solely on the backs of hard-working Americans,” said Congressman Ryan. “Instead of reaching across the aisle for compromise, House Republicans are holding the American people hostage, insisting that the only way forward is their way.” The automatic spending cuts could cost Ohio a massive loss of jobs, including close to 40,000 jobs in the defense and civilian sectors. Automatic cuts would endanger military installations like the Youngstown Air Reserve Station, devastate important defense contracting companies that serve our nation’s defense and contribute millions of dollars per year into the state’s economy. Congressman Ryan, who voted against the sequester bill, will continue to fight against damaging spending cuts that put Ohio jobs on the chopping block. Tea Party Republicans are playing a dangerous game and jeopardizing millions of American livelihoods by refusing to work with Democrats to find a responsible and common sense replacement for the sequester. Congressman Ryan is ready and willing to work toward an amicable resolution once House Republicans open up to compromise. Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 C: (330) 717-8103
02.07.2013	Turner, Ryan Found Congressional Task Force on Delphi Pensions Bipartisan Organization to Advocate for Delphi Retirees Washington, D.C. – Congressmen Mike Turner (OH-10) and Tim Ryan (OH-13) have founded the Auto Industry Pension Task Force for the 113th Congress. The Congressional Auto Industry Pension Task Force will serve as an informal group of Members dedicated to issues related to the termination of Delphi Salaried Retiree pensions and educating other Members on the subject. Turner and Ryan will serve as bipartisan Co-Chairs of the Task Force. “The Delphi Salaried Retirees for too long have been denied the answers and resolution to the issue of their pensions being unjustly slashed. This Task Force will help amplify their voice in the halls of Congress. Already several committees are investigating how this could have occurred, and who made the decisions to pick winners and losers amongst hardworking American taxpayers. It is my hope that the Task Force will be able to build upon the efforts currently underway and provide an avenue for constructive dialogue to remedy this situation,” said Congressman Turner. Turner and Ryan have long worked together on this issue important to working Ohioans and their families. Thousands of Ohio Delphi Salaried Retirees had their pensions slashed by up to 70 percent in some cases. “I remain committed to helping Delphi retirees get the benefits they deserve, and the Delphi Pension Task Force will help advance that goal. The work of the Task Force will be to build a coalition of members that will help us ensure that the Delphi retirees can continue their retirement knowing that they will have the benefits promised to them while they were working. I am grateful to Congressman Turner for his commitment and look forward to working with him and my House colleagues in making this situation right,” said Congressman Ryan. ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 C: (330) 717-8103
02.06.2013	For Immediate Release February 6, 2013 Congressman Ryan Reacts to Waste Water Dumping on Salt Spring Road Congressman Ryan issued the following statement on the criminal investigation of the waste water dumping on Salt Spring Road in Youngstown: “I am furious that up to 20,000 gallons of wastewater was dumped into a storm drain on Salt Springs Road. My understanding is that Hard Rock Excavating and its employees blatantly disregarded multiple rules and regulations on the books and put our local environment at serious risk. I am reassured to hear that the Ohio Department of Natural Resources and the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency are investigating this matter and criminal charges will be filed. The natural gas industry could be a huge boon to our economy, but only if everyone is adhering to the Ohio rules and regulations. Anyone who purposely puts Ohio’s environment in harm’s way should be prosecuted to the full extent of the law.” ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 C: (330) 717-8103
02.05.2013	Congressmen Ryan (OH-13) and Reed (NY-23) Hold 113th Congress’ First Manufacturing Caucus Event (Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan and Congressman Tom Reed, co-chairs of the House Manufacturing Caucus, held the first event of the 113th Congress today, a “Manufacturing 101” kick-off event that included presentations from Aric Newhouse of the National Association of Manufacturers, Emily Foster of Cummins, Inc., and Ralph Resnick, President of the National Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute in Youngstown, Ohio. The Manufacturing Caucus will be holding monthly events to educate House members and staff on manufacturing issues and the promotion of manufacturing in the United States. “Manufacturing has always provided high paying jobs in my District that brought with them a sense of security,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “The House Manufacturing Caucus will help us keep manufacturing at the forefront of the nation’s job recovery. In addition, the House Manufacturing Caucus is shining a light on Youngstown and the Tech Belt as the center of research for additive manufacturing. This is a revolution in manufacturing that will take center stage across the nation as newly created industries and newly created jobs help restore the prosperity we once knew.” Ralph Resnick, the President of the National Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute in Youngstown, told the audience that the United States has to take advantage of the innovative movement in manufacturing, and suggested the need to leverage the maker movement. Resnick also believes that for the United States to compete and overtake China in the area of manufacturing, we need to build infrastructure and constantly innovate. For example, the new developments in 3-D printing are revolutionizing parts manufacturing across many industries. “Robots don’t take away jobs,” said Mr. Resnick. “By taking advantage of the innovative movement in manufacturing, they create higher end jobs. There will be different jobs, and we need to make sure we are ready for those different jobs. # ## More information on Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/#!/HouseMfgCaucus?fref=ts Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 C: (330) 717-8103
02.05.2013	Rep. Tim Ryan and Rep. Tom Reed Host Congressional Manufacturing Caucus Event Rep. Tim Ryan and Rep. Tom Reed Hosting Congressional Manufacturing Caucus Event NAMII President Ralph Resnick Speaking at Event What: Manufacturing Caucus Kick-Off Event When: Tuesday, February 5, 2013, 10:00AM Where: B-318 Rayburn Co-chairs of the House Manufacturing Caucus, Rep. Tom Reed and Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH) are hosting the caucus’ first event of the 113th Congress, a “Manufacturing 101” kick-off event. Co-Chairs and senior representatives from the manufacturing industry, including Ralph Resnick, President and Founding Director of the National Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute, who will discuss additive manufacturing processes and technologies and worldwide manufacturing competitiveness. Panelists include: Congressman Tom Reed, Co-Chair Congressman Tim Ryan, Co-Chair Aric Newhouse, National Association of Manufacturers – the largest manufacturing association in the United States, representing small and large manufacturers in every industrial sector and in all 50 states. Emily Foster, Cummins Inc. – U.S. manufacturer that employs approximately 46,000 people worldwide and serves customers in approximately 190 countries. Ralph Resnick, National Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute – working to accelerate additive manufacturing technologies in the U.S. manufacturing sector and increase domestic manufacturing competitiveness worldwide. # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 C: (330) 717-8103
01.31.2013	Congressman Ryan holds Gun Violence Roundtable Warren, OH – Today, Congressman Ryan met with state police officers and county prosecutors to discuss gun violence in our nation. The tragedy in Newtown, CT, the shooting of Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords and the accumulation of a great many tragedies that happen in American neighborhoods every day have brought the issue of gun violence to the forefront of the debate in Washington, DC. Congressman Ryan led a roundtable discussion with 14 law enforcement officers and officials in his Warren Office. “Recent gun related tragedies have caused many —including myself—to ask whether we as a nation are doing enough to prevent guns from getting into the hands of criminals and the mentally ill. Gun reform is a very complicated and heated topic. Before legislation moves forward, I want to have an open and productive discussion with those who deal with these issues every day,” said Congressman Ryan. “I hold the opinions of our local police officers and prosecutors in the highest esteem; they confront shootings, killings and gun crimes that plague our cities and towns. Before I make any legislative decisions regarding new gun laws, I want to hear from every side of the issue and come away with an informed perspective.” ### Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 C: (330) 717-8103
01.31.2013	Congressman Ryan to Cosponsor the Violence Against Women Act of 2013 WASHINGTON - Congressman Ryan has joined his Democratic colleagues in strongly supporting the rights of women in the United States by signing on as a cosponsor of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (VAWA Reauthorization). The VAWA Reauthorization enables the Federal government, state governments, service agencies and law enforcement agencies to better combat sexual assault, domestic violence and stalking. Since the VAWA became law, the annual incidence of domestic violence has declined by over 50 percent, while at the same time victims are reporting domestic violence incidences at far higher rates. The VAWA Reauthorization renews successful programs, consolidates programs, and increases accountability of programs and agencies. “The Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act is doing exactly what it was set in place to do: make women safer. Every day that this law goes without being reauthorized is a crime against the women of this country. The campaign is over, we have a law that is working, and we cannot allow women’s safety to become yet another political hostage in this Congress,” said Congressman Ryan. In April of 2012, the Senate passed a bipartisan VAWA Reauthorization that garnered support from every female Senator. The authorization lapsed when the Republican-led House of Representatives passed a bill that did not expand access to resources and services for victims of domestic violence and sexual assault. # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 C: (330) 717-8103
01.30.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 30, 2013 Congressman Tim Ryan Introduces Bill to Retain Mount McKinley Name (Washington, D.C.) Last week, Congressman Tim Ryan introduced a bill (H.R. 402) to preserve the memory of the 25th President of the United States William McKinley by retaining the name of North America’s highest point, Mount McKinley. The mountain lies at the center of the Alaskan Range, about 130 miles north-west of Anchorage, and rises 20,320 feet above sea level. President William McKinley was born in Niles, Ohio. “Mount McKinley has borne the name of our 25th President for over 100 years,” said Congressman Ryan. “We must retain this national landmark’s name in order to honor the legacy of this great American President and patriot.” Congressman Ryan first introduced this bill in the 111th Congress at the request of retiring Member of Congress Ralph Regula, who sought to protect the Mount McKinley name during his career. # # # Pat Lowry Communications Director Congressman Tim Ryan 241 W. Federal Street Youngstown, OH 44503 P: (330) 740-0193 C: (330) 717-8103
01.25.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan Meets with Phillips Manufacturing President and Union Leaders (Warren, OH) This afternoon Congressman Tim Ryan met with Phillips Manufacturing President/CEO George Kubat, his management team, the United Steelworkers International and local union representatives with the intent to try to end the strike at Phillips Manufacturing in Niles. “I want to thank Mr. Kubat and his team for making the trip from Omaha to help work towards resolving this labor dispute,” said Congressman Ryan. “We had a constructive exchange of ideas with both sides offering creative solutions to the pending issues. While there is not yet an agreement, both sides demonstrated good faith and agreed to meet again in the very near future.” # # #
01.24.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 23, 2013 Contact: Pat Lowry (330) 740-0193 pat.lowry@mail.house.gov Ryan, Johnson Call on Secretary Chu to Approve Export Permits for Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) One Hundred Ten Members of Congress Join Letter in Support of LNG Exports Washington, D.C. – Congressmen Tim Ryan (OH-13) and Bill Johnson (OH-6) released a letter today to Energy Secretary Steven Chu, calling on the Secretary to approve export permits to non-Free Trade Agreement (FTA) countries as soon as possible. A number of recent reports have suggested a positive impact of LNG exporting, resulting in a net gain for the U.S. economy without a negative impact on the price of domestic natural gas. “Right here in Eastern and Southeastern Ohio, we are blessed with tremendous amounts of natural gas. We are already seeing the beginnings of an economic boom along the Ohio River from the development of natural gas. By opening up this resource to world markets, we can help ensure its continued production that will support and create jobs here in Eastern Ohio. And, we can accomplish this with common sense policies that also protect the interests of America's manufacturers who depend on reliable, affordable access to natural gas. When more people are working, the economy expands and everyone benefits. It’s estimated that America could see tens of thousands of new jobs by opening our vast supply of natural gas to the world,” said Bill Johnson. Johnson added, “Hardworking Ohioans are up to the challenge, and are playing a key role in a true ‘all of the above’ approach to domestic energy development that will put America back to work, lower energy prices, and make America more energy independent.” Congressman Ryan added, “Natural gas has provided us a great opportunity to provide jobs and continued economic development in Northeastern Ohio. Our workers can provide the trucking, construction and other support services needed to take advantage of the state’s abundant gas supply. These are the kinds of investments needed to ensure that our energy future is stable—and our workers find good paying jobs.” “We have made great strides the past few years with our large manufacturers creating new jobs and many smaller companies joining the supply chain. The Tech Belt continues to expand with the opening of the National Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute in downtown Youngstown. But we cannot rest until every person who needs a job has one. Exporting natural gas is a chance to provide that employment—and is a promising development that we cannot afford to miss.” Click here to view the letter. # # #
01.24.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJanuary 23, 2013 Contact: Pat Lowry (330) 740-0193 pat.lowry@mail.house.gov Congressman Tim Ryan Statement on Defense Secretary Leon Panetta’s decision to remove restrictions on women serving in combat roles in the U.S. Military: “This is a welcome move by Secretary Panetta to allow women to serve in combat roles in the military. I have been proud to nominate almost every year I have been in Congress young women who have asked nothing more than to serve their country in any way needed. For many years, they and others like them have been serving and in some cases dying in near-infantry situations. They have proven that women can do the job—and now have more opportunities than ever before. This is the right decision.”
01.24.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 23, 2013 Contact: Pat Lowry (330) 740-0193 pat.lowry@mail.house.gov Congressmen Bill Johnson and Tim Ryan to Visit New BP Facility in North Jackson Youngstown, OH – Congressman Bill Johnson (OH-6) and Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) will meet with officials from the new BP facility in North Jackson, OH. The Congressmen will also tour the facility (meeting and tour are closed press). Press availability will begin at approximately 11:00a.m. WHO: Congressman Bill Johnson Congressman Tim Ryan BP Officials WHAT: Press availability following plant tour and meeting WHEN: Friday, January 25, 2013 at 11:00a.m. WHERE: BP, 12111 DeBartolo Dr., North Jackson, OH 44451 ###
01.22.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 21, 2013 Congressman Tim Ryan today issued a statement following the swearing-in of President Obama for his second term: “Today I had the honor of attending President Obama’s second inauguration. Every four years we gather to participate in a ceremony below the Capitol Dome which sets our country apart from so many others. The Inauguration of President Obama for a second term proclaims the fact that 'We the People' still hold the levers of power in these United States. “The President delivered a tremendous address today, reminding us that we have accomplished much, but still we have more work to do. I am proud and humbled by his achievements—ending the war in Iraq and winding down the war in Afghanistan. The recovery of the economy in the United States, especially in northeastern Ohio, has placed us on sound footing for future growth. “But his greatest accomplishment today was his calling the American people to a higher and more challenging role, moving us to “act in our time,” and reminding us that individual freedom comes from, and is supported by, collective action. “The President reminds us that we are made for this moment. It is not ours individually, but ours as a nation, and is ours for the taking. What we accomplish—we accomplish together. Our American journey continues.”
01.19.2013	Pat Lowry P: (202) 225-5261 Pat.Lowry@mail.house.gov C: (330) 717-8103 Congressman Tim Ryan Statement on Brookings Institution and Rockefeller Foundation Announcement Regarding The National Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute Congressman Tim Ryan today released the following statement in response to Brookings Institution and the Rockefeller Foundation announcement that the National Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute (NAMII), located in downtown Youngstown, is one of the “Top Ten Most Innovative Economic Development Initiatives” to watch in 2013. "Once again marquee institutions in the United States are telling the world to keep an eye on the cutting edge innovations going on in Youngstown and the Tech Belt region. Additive manufacturing is going to transform every sector of our national economy and the innovations will be rippling out of the Mahoning Valley. The Brookings Institution and the Rockefeller Foundation say that this project champions a ‘vision of economic growth that is productive, sustainable, inclusive, and globally oriented.’ I couldn’t agree more. “There is much work to be done and I am confident our team will live up to the high expectations. This announcement confirms the forward momentum we've achieved in creating a "Miracle on the Mahoning.” Link to Brookings Institution/Rockefeller Foundation Press Release: https://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Multimedia/Interactives/2013/InnovationsToWatch/Innovations%20to%20Watch%20Press%20Release%20%20FINAL.pdf Link to National Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute: https://namii.org/ ###
01.18.2013	Congressman Tim Ryan Wins Seats on Defense Subcommittee on Appropriations and Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee on Appropriations Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan has won seats on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense (HAC-D) and the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (T-HUD). Together, these two subcommittees oversee almost $600 billion dollars in discretionary funding. “By reclaiming my seat on (to) the Defense Subcommittee, I’m well-positioned to continue my efforts to ensure that our military has the resources it needs to defend our nation, that those resources are well-spent, that our domestic defense manufacturing base remains strong, and that our soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines remain the best-trained and best-equipped force in the world.” said Congressman Ryan. “As a new member of the Subcommittee on Transportation and Housing and Urban Development, I look forward to making smart investments to enhance the safety and sustainability of our nation’s infrastructure and livability of our cities and towns." The House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense (HAC-D) controls approximately $523 billion in discretionary spending for the following departments and agencies: Department of the Army, Department of the Navy (including Marine Corps), Department of the Air Force, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the Central Intelligence Agency, and the Office of the Secretary of Defense (which includes military personnel, operation and maintenance, procurement, research and development, and military health systems). The House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (T-HUD) overseas approximately $67 billion dollars in discretionary spending for the following departments and agencies: Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Department of Transportation, the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board, the Federal Maritime Commission, the National Transportation Safety Board, the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation, the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness, and the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority. In addition to the House Appropriations Committee, Congressman Ryan was recently reappointed to the House Budget Committee earlier this year. Congressman Ryan’s committee appointments for the 113th Congress are now finalized.
01.18.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 17, 2013 Pat Lowry P: (202) 225-5261 Pat.Lowry@mail.house.gov Reps. Tim Ryan, Ted Deutch Applaud Inclusion of Mental Health Parity Rules in President’s Gun Violence Reduction Plan Just weeks after writing the Obama Administration to request that final mental health parity regulations be included in any plan to reduce gun violence, today Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Congressman Ted Deutch (D-FL) lauded the President’s announcement that he will pursue full implementation of the Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act of 2008 (MHPAEA): "By fully implementing rules requiring insurance companies to fully cover mental health and addiction treatments, President Obama is making clear that those who suffer from untreated mental illness will have the access to the treatment they deserve. The American people overwhelmingly believe that now is the time to make sure that those suffering from these diseases no longer fall through the cracks of society. We cannot overlook the fact that we need change the way we view and treat mental health illness in this country and we applaud President Obama for taking this step in the right direction," said Congressman Ryan. "For every family that has struggled with the effects of untreated mental illness, President Obama’s decision to issue final rules for the Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act is momentous news. The horrific shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary have turned many Americans’ attention to the longstanding inadequacies in our nation’s mental health care system and our need to improve how we identify mental illness and provide affordable access to treatment. If there is any possibility that expanding access to mental health care could help make our communities safer, we must move forward without delay,” said Congressman Deutch.
01.16.2013	Press Release FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 16, 2013 Pat Lowry P: (330) 740-0193 Pat.Lowry@mail.house.gov C: (330) 717-8103 Congressman Ryan Issues Statement in Response to President Obama’s Proposals to End Gun Violence Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement today in response to President Obama’s proposals to end gun violence: “I am very pleased to see President Obama present a number of reasonable proposals for reform of our nation’s gun laws. We must do all we can to prevent these tragic mass shootings and deaths that happen every day due to gun violence. It will take a comprehensive approach that also addresses the core causes of violence in our society at large. This is a very positive first step. “The Supreme Court has repeatedly reaffirmed American’s constitutional right to bear arms. I believe the best way to protect that right is for Congress to support reasonable laws and regulations which will make it harder for criminals, terrorists, and the mentally ill to obtain guns. There’s no reason this cannot be accomplished while also allowing responsible and law-abiding citizens to obtain guns for recreational use and self-protection. Over the next few days and weeks, I’ll be discussing with my colleagues the details of the President’s proposals, other proposals advanced in Congress, as well some ideas of my own for curbing gun violence.” # # #
01.11.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 8, 2013 Congressman Tim Ryan Statement on Governor Ted Strickland's Decision Not to Enter the 2014 Ohio Governor's Race Congressman Ryan released the following statement following the news that former Governor Ted Strickland has chosen not to enter the 2014 Ohio gubernatorial race: "With his long career in public service as Congressman and Governor, Ted Strickland is well known around our state for his deep concern and understanding for the challenges faced by Ohio's poor and working class families. I believe those traits, as well as his clear vision for Ohio and steady hand in tumultuous times would have served him well in the upcoming contest for Governor, but I know too that Governor Strickland will find a way to put his considerable talents to work helping his fellow citizens. I wish him and Frances all the best in whatever comes next for them. Ohio is a better state because of their service." # # #
01.11.2013	Press Release FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 3, 2013 Congressman Tim Ryan Sworn in to the 113th Congress Congressman Ryan Sworn in to 6th Term, Ohio’s 13th Congressional District (Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan today was sworn in today to the 113th Congress by House Speaker John Boehner at the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C. Congressman Ryan is committed to working on behalf of the new 13th Congressional District of Ohio, continuing his work on economic development and working with the President and the House leadership to bring good jobs and investment back to the district. “I am honored to serve as the Congressman of the 13th Congressional District and I will continue my work to bring good jobs and economic development to northeastern Ohio,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. "I am excited to be back working on the Appropriations Committee and proud to have been re-appointed to my seat on the House Budget Committee." # # #
01.11.2013	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congressman Tim Ryan voted in support of H.R. 4310, the FY2013 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), authorizing the nation’s annual military spending, including significant benefits for the 17th Congressional District. Congressman Ryan secured an amendment to the bill that will transfer seven acres of Army-owned land to the Village of Lordstown adjacent to the Ohio Commerce Center. The Village of Lordstown would receive the land at no cost with an understanding that the land always be used for public interests. “This bill provides much-deserved support for our troops , including a 1.7 percent pay raise and extending certain special pay and bonuses for active duty and reserve personnel. I’m very proud to have been successful in securing 7 acres of land for the Village of Lordstown which can be used to provide additional opportunities locally for education or economic development,” said Rep. Ryan. “While the legislation is not perfect, it does address several issues on which I’ve been working, including forcing the Defense Department to keep closer tabs on the health of our nation’s domestic manufacturing base.” Congressman Ryan introduced a bill last year (H.R. 3440—Defense Supply Chain and Industrial Base Security Act) that requires the Secretary of Defense to identify defense suppliers at every level of the defense supply chain and develop an industrial base strategy to ensure the United States always maintains an adequate domestic manufacturing base. Language from Ryan’s bill was included in the FY13 NDAA that requires the Secretary of Defense to develop a national security strategy for the national technology and industrial base. This provision follows on language that was in last year's NDAA, which also mirrored the text of Rep. Ryan's bill. The NDAA also endorses President Obama’s plan to hand over security responsibilities to the Afghans by mid-2013. ###
01.11.2013	Release: Congressman Tim Ryan Reappointed to the Powerful Appropriations Committee Today, the Steering and Policy Committee, on which Congressman Ryan serves, reappointed him to the powerful House Appropriations Committee, which will have jurisdiction over approximately 1.047 Trillion Dollars for FY 2013. “This is a huge honor for our community to have a representative on the House Appropriations Committee.” said Congressman Ryan, “I look forward to working closely with local elected officials, economic development entities and our stellar universities to make sure that we continue to make the needed investments that will transform our regional economy. By investing into cutting-edge manufacturing, business software development and an educated workforce, we can build on our recent successes. I will use this position to help us take our communities to the next level and make sure that all of our citizens that work hard and play by the rules will have an opportunity to have a high quality of life.” Congressman Ryan was previously a member of the Appropriations Committee from December of 2006 until January of 2011. He lost his seat after 2010 midterm election losses led to an overall reduction in the number of Democratic committee positions. Last week, Congressman Ryan was named to the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee. This is a leadership committee tasked with assigning party members to House committees and advising the Democrats on policy. #####
01.11.2013	RELEASE: Congressman Ryan and the Department of Labor Announce Trade Adjustment Assistance for GE Lighting in Warren (Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan and the U.S. Department of Labor are announcing today the certification of a petition for Trade Adjustment Assistance for laid-off workers at GE Lighting, Inc. in Warren. The petition was filed in August by the IUE/CWA union on behalf of the laid-off employees. Trade Adjustment Assistance will assist separated workers in their search for re-employment in a number of ways, including up to two years of retraining. “The Trade Adjustment Assistance offered to those workers at GE Lighting who lost their jobs will speed up the process of getting them back in the workforce,”said Congressman Ryan. “I hope that these workers can still find their future here in the Valley—find employment here and raise their children here. My office will continue to work with the IUE/CWA to ensure that needed resources for these workers are provided.” The Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) Program is a federal program that assists US workers who have lost their jobs as a result of foreign trade. The program provides trade-affected workers with opportunities to obtain the skills, resources, and support they need to become reemployed. For example, Trade Readjustment Allowances will provide income support while workers are participating in full-time training, which may include classroom and/or on the-job training, customized training, post-secondary education, prerequisite education or coursework and remedial education. The cost of training is paid to the training provider by the State with TAA Program funds. In addition, the Health Care Tax Credit makes health insurance more affordable for trade-affected workers by paying 72.5% of health insurance premiums. # # #
11.30.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE November 30, 2012Contact: Ryan Press Office202-225-5261ryan.press@mail.house.gov Rep. Tim Ryan and Rep. Randy Hultgren Announce Friendly Wager on Tonight’s MAC Championship Game WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH-17) has agreed to a friendly wager with Congressman Randy Hultgren (IL-14) on tonight’s Mid-American Conference Championship game at Ford Field in Detroit, Michigan. Rep. Ryan represents No. 17 ranked Kent State University in Kent, Ohio and Rep. Hultgren represents No. 21 ranked Northern Illinois University in DeKalb, Ill. The Kent State Golden Flashes will face the NIU Huskies at Ford Field in Detroit, Mich. at 7:00 p.m. CT. The Congressman representing the losing team will present the Congressman representing the winning team with treats from his district. Rep. Ryan will offer a gift basket of gourmet goods from Kent’s local bakeries and a Kent Displays Boogie Board. “After the Golden Flashes beat the Huskies tonight, it will be my pleasure to sample the basket of Graham’s Chocolate that Rep. Hultgren will be sending from Geneva, Ill.,” Rep. Ryan said. ###
11.15.2012	Rep. Tim Ryan issued the following statement on Rep. Marcia Fudge’s selection as Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus: “I congratulate my dear friend Rep. Fudge on her unanimous selection as Chair of Congressional Black Caucus. She has been a strong advocate for her district and the people of Ohio, and she is an excellent choice to lead the CBC, which is an important voice for civil rights and fundamental fairness in the legislative process. We have seen, and continue to see, an attack on the very fundamental rights of Americans. Marsha Fudge is exactly who we need out there pushing back on these disgusting attempts to turn the clock back and suppress the votes of our own citizens. Serving with Rep. Fudge is an honor, and I’m pleased her leadership and commitment to democratic values is being recognized by her peers with this selection.”
11.14.2012	Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) issued the following statement in response to reports that Ohio’s participation in the Affordable Care Act’s exchanges will be managed by the federal government: “I look forward to working with Department of Health and Human Services to make sure that Ohio’s residents have an exchange that meets their health care needs. Exchanges are an opportunity to make health care accessible, affordable, and effective for many Ohioans who would otherwise not have insurance, and I am optimistic about what we can accomplish with the Ohio exchange operating under federal oversight. I will do everything I can to make it successful in broadening access to coverage, reducing costs and improving patient outcomes.”
11.14.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 24, 2012Contact: Ryan Press Office202-225-5261ryan.press@mail.house.gov RELEASE: Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement on Mahoning and Trumbull Counties’ combined September unemployment rate of 7.4% - Down from 8.8% in September, 2011 Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement on Mahoning and Trumbull Counties’ combined unemployment rate of 7.4% for September of this year, which is down from 8.8% in September, 2011: “The significantly lowered unemployment rate over the past year in Mahoning and Trumbull Counties is welcome news; this is proof that the recovery is real and the policies that are being implemented to create jobs are working. “When you look around our community it is not hard to see all of the positive changes. You can see GM Lordstown alive and well, producing the Chevy Cruze with three shifts a day, and auto supply chain companies booming with business. If you look at V&M Star in Youngstown and Girard, you will see almost 1 billion dollars of investments in the company. In the Mahoning Valley, you can find the National Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute (NAMII), the only one of its kind, bringing the hub of the Tech Belt to Youngstown. “All of these investments we have made are turning into stable, good-paying jobs, giving young people the opportunity to stay or move back to our community and raise their families. We have more work to do, but this is an exciting time for the Ohio 17th District.”
10.04.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEOCTOBER 4, 2012Contact: Ryan Press Office202-225-5261ryan.press@mail.house.gov Congressman Tim Ryan Announces a USDA Loan for New Bazetta Township Fire Station Warren, OH – Congressman Tim Ryan is announcing a loan from the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development Office in the amount of $3,200,000 for Bazetta Township to construct a new fire station. When completed, the new station will consolidate the Bazetta Fire Department from three outdated facilities into one central location. “These are the types of investments our federal government needs to make, not only to keep our citizens safe, but to ensure the safety of our first responders,” said Congressman Ryan. “I want to congratulate the Bazetta Township Trustees for their commitment to this project, which will have a lasting impact on the township.” The new station will fully comply with the Americans with Disability Act, and will provide the township residents with improved fire and emergency service. # # #
10.01.2012	AT WHEATLAND TUBE IN WARREN, REP. RYAN, SEN. BROWN HIGHLIGHT MAHONING VALLEY STEEL JOBS CREATED AND SAVED THROUGH TRADE ENFORCEMENT Ryan, Brown Release New Report Outlining Investments and Jobs in Steel Pipe and Tube Since 2008 Across Northeast Ohio; Brown and Ryan Have Gone to Bat for Ohio Steelmakers in Cases Before the International Trade Commission Ryan and Brown Renew Call to Speaker Boehner to Bring to the House Floor Bipartisan China Currency Legislation—Which Could Create 2 Million Jobs at No Cost to Taxpayers; Bill Passed Senate in October 2011 But Has Languished in House WARREN, OH – Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-17) and U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) visited Wheatland Tube in Warren today to meet with workers and release a new report outlining the importance of trade law enforcement to steel and manufacturing jobs in the Mahoning Valley and across Northeast Ohio. Ryan and Brown also renewed their call to U.S. House Speaker John Boehner to schedule a vote in the House of Representatives on Brown’s Senate-passed, bipartisan Currency Exchange Rate Oversight Reform Act, which would punish China when it cheats trade laws by manipulating its currency. The legislation, which could create 2 million American jobs at no cost to taxpayers, cleared the Senate in October 2011 by a wide bipartisan margin, but has languished in the House since then. Nearly 260 current House members—including 80 Republicans—voted for a similar version of the bill in 2010. Dave McCall, United Steelworkers District 1 Director, also joined Ryan and Brown at Wheatland Tube. “From steel to auto parts, the evidence is clear: when industry and the government get tough on trade and enforce existing laws, our workers and businesses win. That’s because trade enforcement is critical to our global competitiveness,” Brown said. “The manufacturing industry in the Mahoning Valley and across Ohio is bouncing back, but challenges remain—and that’s why we can’t turn a blind eye to trade partners that cheat. Our workers and business can compete with anyone when we enforce trade law, and that includes addressing China’s currency manipulation. “Legislation is necessary to fight back against China’s unfair currency manipulation, and it has enjoyed broad bipartisan support in both the House and the Senate—but the Currency Exchange Rate Oversight Reform Act has languished in the U.S. House for months. Our workers and businesses can’t wait any longer for action,” Brown added. “Our area has directly benefitted from taking a strong stand against China - the construction jobs at V&M Star, the 350 permanent jobs that will be there, the 30 new jobs at Wheatland Tube, not to mention the spin-off jobs that will be created. I am grateful to Senator Brown for his strong leadership on these issues and we will continue to fight the Chinese market distortion at every turn,” said Rep. Ryan. “We know that when our manufacturing sector is thriving, our economy is strong. We should be doing everything we can to ensure the growth of the manufacturing jobs, and to keep the United States competitive in the global market. That includes supporting innovation in manufacturing, and holding countries like China accountable so that they don’t hold an unfair advantage through currency manipulation and trade subsidies,” Rep. Ryan continued. In December 2009 and September 2010, Ryan and Brown testified before the International Trade Commission (ITC) on behalf of Ohio steel workers, including those at Wheatland Tube in Warren, U.S. Steel in Lorain, and V&M STAR in Youngstown. The ITC’s ruling in the December 2009 case led to a border measure on imports to support these domestic producers of steel pipe. By addressing illegal Chinese trade practices, this decision helped increase demand for domestic production. It also played a critical role in V&M Star's decision to build a new, $650 million seamless pipe mill in Youngstown, bringing an estimated 350 regional jobs along with it. Other steel companies in Northeast Ohio have expanded in recent years, including Wheatland Tube, TMK IPSCO, and U.S. Steel. Pressure is building in Ohio for action on China’s currency manipulation, with Ohio House Minority Leader Armond Budish and Assistant Minority Leader Matt Szollosi recently sending a letter—signed by members of the Ohio House of Representatives—to Speaker Boehner urging congressional action on the Currency Exchange Rate Oversight Reform Act. The letter follows a bipartisan, unanimously-passed Ohio House resolution urging President Obama and Congress to cite China as a currency manipulator. New figures were released last month showing the U.S. trade deficit growing to $42 billion in July, up 0.2 percent from June. According to the U.S. Commerce Department, the trade deficit with China grew to $29.4 billion, an increase of 7.2 percent; imports from China rose 5.6 percent. According to a recent report released by the Economic Policy Institute (EPI), the trade deficit with China cost Ohio 95,500 jobs between 2001 and 2011.As a whole, the U.S. lost more than 2.7 million jobs as a result of the U.S.-China trade deficit, of which 2.1 million—more than 75 percent—were in manufacturing. These lost manufacturing jobs account for more than half of all U.S. manufacturing jobs lost or displaced between 2001 and 2011, according to the report. In June 2011, EPI released a report showing that addressing Chinese currency manipulation could support the creation of 2.25 million American jobs. ###
10.01.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEOCTOBER 1, 2012Contact: Ryan Press Office202-225-5261ryan.press@mail.house.gov Congressman Tim Ryan and Senator Sherrod Brown Highlighting Valley Steel Jobs Saved Through Trade Enforcement Warren, OH –Congressman Tim Ryan and Senator Sherrod Brown today will visit Wheatland Tube in Warren to meet with workers and release a report showing the importance of trade law enforcement to steel and manufacturing jobs in the Mahoning Valley and across Northeast Ohio. WHO: Sen. Sherrod Brown Congressman Tim Ryan Tim Feeney, General Manager of Operations, Wheatland Tube United Steelworkers Local 9306 WHAT: News Conference on Trade Enforcement and Ohio Steel Jobs WHEN: Monday, October 1st, 2012 at 10:45 AM Plant tour begins at 10:45 AM (No photo or video permitted) News conference begins at 11:00 AM Media on plant tour must wear closed-toed shoes. Hard hats will be provided. WHERE: Wheatland Tube, a division of JMC Steel: 901 Dietz Road, Warren, OH 44483 ###
09.28.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESEPTEMBER 27, 2012Contact: Ryan Press Office202-225-5261ryan.press@mail.house.gov Congressman Ryan Announces U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Grant (Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan today is announcing a federal grant of $160,000 for the International Institute of Akron, Inc. The grant will assist them in building community support for lawful permanent residents in the naturalization process. This grant money will help lawful permanent residents become citizens of the United States,”said Congressman Ryan. “This will ensure that they receive needed services to find opportunities for education, social services and employment.” Grant recipients in 21 states and the District of Columbia will serve over 10,000 individuals from countries around the world. The International Institute of Akron will join other institutions around the country to expand the range of citizenship preparation services available to permanent residents, help the immigrants become citizens of the United States, and foster their integration into American society.
09.26.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE SEPTEMBER 25, 2012 Contact: Ryan Press Office 202-225-5261 ryan.press@mail.house.gov RELEASE: Rep. Tim Ryan Announces $250,000 Grant for the Trumbull County Kermont Heights Sanitary Sewer Improvements Project Youngstown, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan is announcing a grant of $250,000 from the Appalachian Regional Commission to the Trumbull County Commissioners for the Kermont Heights Sanitary Sewer Improvements Project. This project involves the construction of approximately 17,055 linear feet of mainline sanitary sewer pipe to service approximately 157 existing households, three churches and five businesses in northern Hubbard Township and approximately 1,000 acres of vacant prime real estate for economic development. The sewer project will provide a new collection system for properly disposing wastewater, reducing exposure to storm runoff and improving water quality in the Shenango River watershed. “Projects like this are perfect examples of how federal, state and local agencies can come together to solve real problems and a reminder of why belonging to the Appalachian Regional Commission was an important decision that continues to pay-off for the 17th Congressional District,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Infrastructure investments like this improve the lives of thousands of people in our area, and put us on a strong foundation for development opportunities and a brighter economic future.” In addition to the Appalachian Regional Commission grant, a combination of state and local agencies have agreed to provide additional funds for the project. The Ohio Public Works Commission will provide an additional $250,000 and local sources through the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency Water Pollution Control Loan Fund will provide $2,853,991 bringing the total project funding to $3,353,991. ###
09.24.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESEPTEMBER 21, 2012Contact: Ryan Press Office202-225-5261ryan.press@mail.house.gov Congressman Tim Ryan Announces USDA Grants to Promote New Economic Opportunity for Farmers and Ranchers through Local and Regional Projects Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Tim Ryan was proud to announce USDA grants for two programs in Kent and Youngstown. The grants are intended to bolster the connection between agricultural producers and their consumers while improving access to healthy food and strengthening local economies. “These USDA Grants are exactly the kind of investments we need in order to promote good health and economic growth by increasing access to fresh, affordable produce and supporting the work of local farms. Americans are moving consistently towards better health and lifestyle choices,” said Rep. Ryan. “The availability of local produce at affordable prices is essential to this future, as well as educating the public about access to these resources. The USDA awards support this positive direction and acknowledge the vital role that local farmers and ranchers have in keeping food affordable, healthy and accessible.” The awards announced today are: $38,855 to City of Kent, OH, to promote the use of EBT at the Haymaker Farmers Market, and educate low-income residents about the availability and use of EBT through newspaper and other print advertising. $100,000 to Flying HIGH Inc., Youngstown, OH, to recruit and train young urban adults as farmers to grow and sell produce at new farmers markets throughout the City of Youngstown and Mahoning County by providing production and marketing education, technical support services, supplies, and professional development for entrepreneurs in market urban homesteads. Ohio has a long tradition of local farmers pursuing direct-marketing opportunities in their operations. More than 6,800 Ohio farms sell directly to consumers. These investments represent USDA’s efforts to strengthen local and regional food systems through projects that recruit and train farmers, expand economic opportunities, increase access to healthy foods and use social media to link markets and vendors. This year, almost five percent of total funding will be awarded to six projects in the state. In 2009, USDA launched the Know Your Farmer, Know Your Food initiative to strengthen the critical connection between farmers and consumers and supports local and regional food systems. Through this initiative, USDA integrates programs and policies that stimulate food- and agriculturally-based community economic development; foster new opportunities for farmers and ranchers; promote locally and regionally produced and processed foods; cultivate healthy eating habits and educated, empowered consumers; expand access to affordable fresh and local food; and demonstrate the connection between food, agriculture, community and the environment. Know Your Farmer, Know Your Food also leads a national conversation about food and agriculture to strengthen the connection between consumers and farmers. An interactive view of USDA programs that support local and regional foods, including FMPP, is available at the Know Your Farmer, Know Your Food Compass. The KYF Compass is a digital guide to USDA resources related to local and regional food systems. The Compass consists of an interactive U.S. map USDA-supported local and regional food projects and an accompanying narrative documenting the results of this work through case studies, photos and video content.
09.20.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESEPTEMBER 20, 2012Contact: Ryan Press Office202-225-5261ryan.press@mail.house.gov Congressman Tim Ryan Sends Letter to Speaker Boehner Asking for a Vote on Senate-passed Bill to Combat Foreign Currency Misalignment Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan, along with 45 of his Congressional colleagues, today signed a letter to House Speaker John Boehner asking for a vote on the bipartisan Currency Exchange Rate Oversight Reform Act, a Senate-passed bill to combat foreign currency misalignment. A vote on this bill would send a strong message to foreign governments who persistently manipulate their currencies to gain an unfair economic advantage over the United States. Congressman Ryan has been a strong advocate in the House for fair currency and trade practices in China, having authored a number of congressional bills on the issue. The letter follows: The Honorable John Boehner Speaker U.S. House of Representatives H-232, U.S. Capitol Dear Speaker Boehner: Almost one year ago, The Currency Exchange Rate Oversight Reform Act passed the Senate with strong bipartisan support. We urge you to allow a vote on currency legislation before you adjourn the House. The Currency Exchange Rate Oversight Reform Act, which was passed by the Senate 63-35 on October 11, 2011, would repeal the currency oversight provisions in current law and replace them with a new framework, based on objective criteria. These criteria will require Treasury to identify misaligned currencies and require action by the Administration if countries fail to correct the misalignment. In addition, the legislation passed by the Senate uses trade laws to counter harm done to manufacturers, farmers, and producers from currency manipulation. Legislation is necessary to actually give American businesses and workers tools to fight back. The House agreed in September 2010 when it voted 348-79 to allow treatment of currency manipulation as a prohibited export subsidy in trade investigations. There are 256 sitting House members, more than a majority, who supported this legislation, including 80 Republicans. There is broad bipartisan support for a job-creating measure to address currency manipulation. We respectfully urge you to pass this bill and send it to the President. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
09.20.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESEPTEMBER 20, 2012Contact: Ryan Press Office202-225-5261ryan.press@mail.house.gov RELEASE: Rep. Tim Ryan Announces $960,000 Grant to Curb Veteran Homelessness in Ohio’s 17th Congressional District Washington – Congressman Tim Ryan is announcing a grant of $960,000 from the Department of Veterans Affairs Health Care for Homeless Veterans (HCHV) to be awarded to Family and Community Services, Inc. in Ravenna, Ohio. The purpose of this grant is to help homeless veterans obtain temporary housing with the hopes that they will be able to take over payment of the lease and continue living in the residence after use of VA services. Veterans in this program will have job training, mental health services and substance abuse counseling available to them. These services and apartments will be at scattered locations in Warren, Ohio. “Family and Community Services, Inc. should be applauded for their success in securing funding for this program. Providing housing and supportive services to our veterans in need is the right thing to do. These American heroes fought to protect us and it is our responsibility to make sure that they have every resource available to escape homelessness and gain stable, independent lives,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. The Veteran Affairs' Homeless Providers Grant and Per Diem Program is part of President Obama and the VA’s five year plan to eliminate veteran homelessness by 2015. Between 2010 and 2011 the VA has found a 12% reduction in homelessness among veterans and they have pledged almost one billion dollars to strengthen these types of programs. # # #
09.12.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESEPTEMBER 12, 2012Contact: Ryan Press Office202-225-5261ryan.press@mail.house.gov Congressman Tim Ryan Statement on the Death of Ambassador Chris Stevens (Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan today issued the following statement in response to the death of U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens: “Ambassador Stevens’ death is a tragedy and our thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends today. It is premature to comment on the nature of the attacks that led to his death, but we can acknowledge and honor his patriotism and service to his country. This incident is a tragic reminder that the men and women who choose to serve their country in overseas posts take significant risks to their own safety. Ambassador Stevens should be remembered for his work—and honored for his sacrifice.”
09.07.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESEPTEMBER 7, 2012Contact: Ryan Press Office202-225-5261ryan.press@mail.house.gov Rep. Tim Ryan Announces National Science Foundation Grant for Youngstown State University Funds will support multidisciplinary research and collaboration YOUNGSTOWN, OH – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan announced a National Science Foundation (NSF) grant award of $444,555 to Youngstown State University for the acquisition of a variable scanning electron microscope. This equipment will be fully integrated into undergraduate and graduate programs and be used by hundreds of students at YSU and partner institutions. The microscope will also be used to train future educators in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) curricula. “The NSF award for YSU will have an immediate, direct impact for hundreds of students in universities and community colleges in our area. This grant is in addition to the millions of federal research dollars Youngstown has received in the past decade that has made it a major urban research university,” Rep. Ryan said. “The positive impact of having this kind of advanced scientific equipment available will be multiplied when current students graduate and use the skills they’ve developed to implement science and engineering programs in our local school districts, or to expand the capabilities of our already thriving Tech Belt. Keeping this type of federal funding in place is critical to providing our students with the most cutting-edge equipment so they can be trained in, and therefore help us grow and attract, the jobs of the future. " According to the NSF: “The integration of the instrument with the YSU CyberInstrumentation Consortium (STaRBURSTT@YSU) will ensure sophisticated access to the SEM and other lab instruments for a large number of external users, most of whom are at community colleges (CC), or other primarily undergraduate institutions (PUI) - an outreach activity for which YSU is well known. The SEM will provide training and education opportunities to K-12, undergraduate and graduate students, to high school science teachers, and to CC and PUI faculty through: (1) collaborative STEM projects between YSU, Westminster College, Eastern Gateway Community College, Poland Seminary High School and LaBrae High School, Trumbull Career & Technical Center, and Mahoning Valley Historical Society; (2) Summer Materials Camp for High School Science Teachers; and (3) YSU Engineering Explorers and related programs. “Thanks to its relative ease of use and impressive imaging capabilities at nanoscale resolution, the SEM will be one of the core attractors in YSU's outreach programs for K-12 & community college students and teachers, especially those at minority serving institutions that often have the desire but lack opportunities to pursue STEM careers. “The microscope will be used for multidisciplinary research from several science and engineering disciplines, including: Material Science, Mechanical and Electrical Engineering, Chemistry, Physics, Biology, Geology, and Forensic Sciences. The instrument will be used in more than 10 research projects involving over 30 graduate students and postdocs, and more than 300 undergraduate students per year will have access to it. “Proposed interdisciplinary research projects include: mono-crystalline ferromagnetic shape memory alloy micro-particles for energy and micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS) applications; synthesis and characterization of rear-earth oxide nanocatalysts; grain orientation and grain boundary microstructure in ceramic-metal composites; nanolayered ceramic precursors; nanofabrication and study of wide bandgap semiconductor devices; e-beam lithography of polymer microlenses and 2-D/3-D photonic crystals on multilayer polymeric systems; characterization of collagen deposition in scar tissue; design of commercially important rare earth materials; fuel cell electrolyte membranes; and, bio-chemical detection properties of carbon nanotubes.” ####
08.30.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEAUGUST 30, 2012Contact: Ryan Press Office202-225-5261ryan.press@mail.house.gov Rep. Tim Ryan Congratulates New Public/Private Partnership Building New Kent State University Hotel & Conference Center Applauds Job Creation, Economic Growth KENT, OH – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan lauded the announcement of a unique public/private partnership that will enable the Kent State University (KSU) Foundation to fund an important new hotel and conference center that will create 472 local jobs and spur regional tourism growth and economic development. “Today’s announcement is yet another example of the private and public sectors collaborating and making our community more successful,” Rep. Ryan said. “Our economic progress depends on projects like this, which bring together the strengths of business and public resources to create jobs and drive growth. This is a great step for downtown Kent, and more proof that northeast Ohio continues to be an example for communities across the nation of what we can do when we work together." Project partners in the $15.6 million Kent State University Conference Hotel & Center in downtown Kent includes the Kent State University Foundation, The Pizzuti Companies of Columbus, City of Kent, DFWR, which is controlled by the Development Finance Authority of Summit County, and Finance Fund. Funding for the project includes $9 million in New Markets Tax Credits (NMTC) from Finance Fund, and $6.5 million from Development Fund of the Western Reserve (DFWR). The new 95-room hotel is part of a larger $100 million redevelopment project in downtown Kent that will offer retail, office and residential space. Construction of the hotel, slated to open in the spring 2013, will generate 430 construction jobs. When complete, the hotel and conference center will result in 42 permanent jobs in a community that has a 29 percent poverty rate. The new hotel and conference center will serve university visitors and support area tourism overall. In addition, Kent and Akron-area employers are expected to hold corporate conferences and special events in the 5,400-square-foot, 300-seat ballroom/conference center. The hotel will also serve as a learning space for students, particularly for those enrolled in KSU’s hospitality management degree program. Thousands of campus visitors are attracted to the area each year. KSU is now the second largest public university in Ohio with total student enrollment of more than 41,000. ####
08.29.2012	For Planning Purposes Contact: Stephanie Dreyer (Truman Project) (914) 715-6087 Wednesday, August 29, 2012 Crystal Patterson (Rep. Ryan) (202) 225-5261 Congressman Ryan, Ohio Veterans to Pressure Congressional Republicans on Defense Spending Rep. Ryan: Prioritizing Millionaires Over the Military Threatens National Security Warren, Ohio. – On Thursday, August 30 at 1:30pm ET, the Truman National Security Project will host a press conference with Congressman Tim Ryan (D-17) at his District Office to continue pressure on congressional Republicans to come to an agreement on pending Pentagon spending cuts. The cuts that will result from Sequestration would severely impact defense spending and our national security but congressional Republicans continue to prioritize tax cuts for millionaires over adequately funding our military, while trying to blame the Administration for the cuts that they voted to impose. Following a closed door veteran roundtable discussion, Rep. Ryan will be joined by former Ohio Congressman John Boccieri and Ohio veteran Paul Worley to demand that members of congress put our national security spending ahead of irresponsible tax cuts for millionaires so we can prepare for future threats and balance our spending. WHO:Rep. Tim Ryan, Congressman for Ohio's 17th District and member of the House Armed Services Committee Paul Worley, Army veteran who served in Iraq and AfghanistanJohn Boccieri, Former U.S. Congressman for Ohio’s 16thDistrict, Air Force veteran and current reservist WHEN: August 30, 2012, 1:30pm ET WHERE: Rep. Ryan’s District Office Conference Room 197 W. Market Street Warren, OH 44481 ### The Truman National Security Project is a national security leadership institute. For more information, visit www.trumanproject.org.
08.22.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEAUGUST 22, 2012Contact: Ryan Press Office202-225-5261ryan.press@mail.house.gov RELEASE: Rep. Tim Ryan Sends Letter Regarding RG Steel Bankruptcy Youngstown – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan sent a letter to Judge Kevin J. Carey in relation to the bankruptcy proceedings of RG Steel. Rep. Ryan’s letter urged the judge to carefully consider access to the power plant shared by RG Steel and ArcelorMittal as he is making determinations about the conditions of the sale of RG Steel to C.J. Betters, the winning bidder in the recent auction of RG Steel. The text of the letter is below: August 22, 2012 Judge Kevin J. Carey 824 N. Market Street 5thFloor Wilmington, DE 19801 The Honorable Judge Kevin J. Carey: As the U.S. Representative for Ohio’s 17thDistrict, I am writing to express my concern over the recent bankruptcy filed by RG Steel and the circumstances surrounding this difficult development for Warren, Ohio and the surrounding region. In particular, I understand you provisionally approved the sale of the Warren, Ohio RG Steel plant to C.J. Betters Enterprises, Inc. pending a resolution to an objection filed by ArcelorMittal. Based on a 1988 agreement that is still in effect today, RG Steel and ArcelorMittal have been receiving power from the same power plant located near both facilities. There are about 1200 steelworkers who have been affected by the recent shutdown at RG Steel as well as 135 steelworkers at ArcelorMittal who rely on this power plant for their daily work responsibilities. I also understand you are allowing C.J. Betters a period of nine months to secure financing in hopes of reopening the former RG Steel facility. During this nine month period, any disruption or future stoppage of this facility’s ability to access power from the adjacent power plant could put in jeopardy any future financer or purchaser’s ability to re-open and provide power. While I understand that you must balance many important concerns, I encourage you to include maintaining access to the power plant in your consideration as you make your final decision. We are working hard in my congressional district and northeast Ohio to provide good-paying jobs and create win-win situations for everyone involved, especially in difficult times like these. I will also continue to work with my colleagues at the federal, state and local level to provide any incentives we can to make sure the former RG Steel once again provides jobs and proves to be a bright spot for our region. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me or Rick Leonard in my Warren, Ohio office at (330) 373-0074 or rick.leonard@mail.house.gov. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
08.16.2012	RELEASE: Rep. Tim Ryan Announces $85 Million Joint Public-Private Partnership Investment in the Tech Belt Consortium of Businesses, Universities, and Community Colleges from Ohio, West Virginia and Pennsylvania Co-Invest with Federal Government in a Manufacturing Innovation Institute Washington – Today, Rep. Tim Ryan joined U.S. Senator Sherrod Brown and Obama administration officials to announce a landmark $85 million public-private partnership investment in the Tech Belt. The joint venture is called the National Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute (NAMII), and is the first major investment of its kind to help revitalize American manufacturing and encourage companies to invest in the United States. The Tech Belt Initiative was conceivedin 2007 by Rep. Tim Ryan, Rep. Jason Altmire (D-PA), and education, business and community leaders in the region to re-imagine the future of communities as a mechanism to increase the amount of venture capital, grants, innovation, research and development and government assistance in a broad array of industries that will strengthen the entire region. By promoting growth in biotechnology, advanced manufacturing, advanced energy, advanced materials, information technology and robotics, the group worked to promote sustainable economic development to move the Rust Belt into the competitive, global 21st century marketplace. In response to today’s announcement, Rep. Ryan said: “Back in 2007, many people thought the Tech Belt concept was pie-in-the-sky. A nice idea, but not practical. It was hard enough to get local communities together, let alone business, education and non-profits, they would say. Today is proof that our region can work together for the benefit of all. Today, our region has met the challenge and outpaced institutional giants like MIT and Georgia Tech. As manufacturing in our region led the nation out of the Great Depression, this program of advanced manufacturing and the innovations that come from it will help us lead our nation into a manufacturing renaissance that will provide opportunity for our young people to live work and prosper in the Tech Belt.” Congressman Ryan was joined by U.S. Senator Sherrod Brown, Director of the National Economic Council Gene B. Sperling, Acting Secretary of Commerce Rebecca M. Blank and Under Secretary of Defense Frank Kendall along with other Administration and local officials, to announce the award at M7 Technologies in Youngstown, Ohio. Five federal agencies - the Departments of Defense, Energy, and Commerce, the National Science Foundation, and NASA – jointly committed to invest $45 million in a pilot institute on additive manufacturing. Today's announcement of an initial $30 million award under existing authorities is matched by $40 million from the winning consortium. Youngstown, Ohio and the surrounding region demonstrate the potential to bring together the capabilities of America’s companies and universities, in partnership with the federal government, to invest in the cutting-edge technologies and skills our manufacturers need to compete. With this initiative, Youngstown is poised to become the epicenter of burgeoning new industries from its leadership in additive manufacturing or 3-D printing. The President’s proposal for a National Network for Manufacturing Innovation was endorsed by his Advanced Manufacturing Partnership Steering Committee. The AMP’s final recommendations, released last month in the report Capturing Domestic Competitive Advantage in Advanced Manufacturing, outlined a set of actions to enable innovation, strengthen our workforce, and accelerate investment in America. Background on the National Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute: The NAMII will provide the innovation infrastructure needed to support new additive manufacturing technology and products in order to become a global center of excellence for additive manufacturing. This pilot institute will bridge the gap between basic research and product development for additive manufacturing, provide shared assets to help companies, particularly small manufacturers, access cutting-edge capabilities and equipment, and create an environment to educate and train workers in advanced additive manufacturing skills. Additive manufacturing, often referred to as 3D printing, is a new way of making products and components from a digital model, and will have implications in a wide range of industries including defense, aerospace, automotive, and metals manufacturing. Like an office printer that puts 2D digital files on a piece of paper, a 3D printer creates components by depositing thin layers of material one after another using a digital blueprint until the exact component required has been created. The Department of Defense envisions customizing parts on site for operational systems that would otherwise be expensive to make or ship. The Department of Energy anticipates that additive processes would be able to save more than 50% energy use compared to today’s ‘subtractive’ manufacturing processes. NAMII is led by the National Center for Defense Manufacturing and Machining, and includes: 40 Companies: Allegheny Technologies, AlphaMicron, Applied Systems and Technology Transfer, Autodesk, Boeing, Catalyst Connection, Energy Industries of Ohio, ExOne, FMW Composites, General Dynamics, General Electric, Honeywell, IBM, Johnson Controls, Kennametal, Kent Displays, Laser Technology Assts, Lockheed Martin, Lubrizol, M-7 Technologies, MicroFab Technologies, Morris, Northrop Grumman, nScrypt, OSRAM Sylvania, Optomec, Oxford Performance Materials, Paramount Industries / 3D Systems, Parker Hannifin, Plextronix, POM, RTI, Ruger, Sciaky, Stratasys, Stratonics, Timken, Touchstone Research Lab, Westinghouse Nuclear, Wohlers Associates 9 Research Universities:Carnegie Mellon University, Case Western Reserve University, Kent State University, Lehigh University, Penn State University, Robert Morris University, University of Akron, University of Pittsburgh, Youngstown State University 5 Community Colleges:Eastern Gateway Community College, Lorain County Community College, Northampton Community College, Penn College of Technology, Westmoreland County Community College 11 Non-Profit Organizations:Association for Manufacturing Technology, Ben Franklin Technology Partners, JumpStart Ohio, Manufacturing Advocacy and Growth Network, MT Connect, NorTech, National Digital Engineering and Manufacturing Consortium, Ohio Aerospace Institute, Robert C. Byrd Institute, the Youngstown Business Incubator, and the Society of Manufacturing Engineers. More information available here: History of the Cleveland to Pittsburgh Tech Belt The Tech Belt by the Numbers From Rust Belt to Tech Belt: A Timeline
08.14.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEAUGUST 13, 2012Contact: Ryan Press Office202-225-5261 ryan.press@mail.house.gov RELEASE: Rep. Tim Ryan Announces $600,000 FAA Grant for Kent State University Washington – Today, Rep. Tim Ryan announced the award of a grant of $600,000 to Kent State University by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for the University’s airport. The funds will be used in administration of the Airport Master Plan Study, and will be used to identify future airport needs. “This grant for Kent State’s airport will help the university continue to meet the aviation needs in our area while balancing the surrounding community’s interests and maintaining high environmental standards”, Rep. Ryan said. “Investments like this will continue northeast Ohio’s growth as a transportation center and support the infrastructure required to keep flight paths safe and accessible in the area.” The Master Plan Study provides goals and guidelines for future development to benefit the university and local community, maintain environmental standards and meet aviation demands in the area. Read more on the master plan here.
08.13.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEAUGUST 13, 2012Contact: Press Office202-225-5261 ryan.press@mail.house.gov RELEASE: Rep. Tim Ryan Announces $130,530 Appalachian Regional Commission Grant for Plumbers & Pipefitters Local 396 Youngstown, OH - Congressman Tim Ryan, along with Plumbers & Pipefitters Local 396 are announcing a grant of $130,530 from the Appalachian Regional Commission which will provide training for up to 60 welders in techniques used on oil and gas pipelines. This training will give welders the opportunity to become highly-skilled and sought after in downhill welding techniques, and will increase the capacity of these workers to compete in the global economy. Oil and gas producers are expected to bring 34 billion into the state by 2015, and enhancing the skills of our workers is a crucial step in making sure we are ready to take advantage of the increase in oil and gas production. Local 396 is leading the way with their job training facility which has been recognized locally and nationally for its state-of-the-art equipment and layout design. With over $2 million invested in their training center, Local 396 has trained over 200 people in the plumbing and welding industry in the last ten years. “Local 396 should be commended for their leadership in securing this grant and making this training a reality. The oil and gas industry has great potential for the Mahoning Valley, and we need to have a workforce ready to encourage job creation and retention in this growing industry,”said Congressman Tim Ryan. Butch Taylor, Business Manager for Local 396 said, “This grant is the culmination of hard work by many people and organizations, including the Appalachian Regional Commission. We are constantly striving to be proactive in showcasing what the Mahoning Valley has to offer the oil and gas industry.” The Marcellus and Utica Shale exploration will bring more economic activity to the Mahoning Valley and it is imperative to provide the support necessary for workforce development. This grant will provide the means to develop a program which will provide the skill, knowledge and facility to train the people of Appalachia to compete in the global marketplace and encourage job growth in the Mahoning Valley. A new class of apprentices will begin training in January, 2012 in downhill welding techniques specifically geared to the Marcellus and Utica shale operations. Classes will be taught in the Plumbers & Pipefitters training facility located in Boardman, Ohio. # # #
08.13.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEAUGUST 13, 2012Contact: Press Office202-225-5261 ryan.press@mail.house.gov Rep. Tim Ryan Asks Treasury Department and PBGC to Release Documents Relating to Delphi Salaried Employees Pension Terminations Washington – On Friday, August 10, 2012, Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Niles)sent letters to the Treasury Department and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) asking them to provide the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform with more documentation on the decision-making process that led to the termination of pension benefits for the salaried employees of the Delphi Corporation. The text of the letters is below. Letter to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner: August 9, 2012 The Honorable Timothy Geithner Secretary of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Room 3330 Washington, DC 20220 Dear Secretary Geithner: I write to request that you provide the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform additional documents and full transparency from Treasury on matters pertaining to the termination of Delphi Salaried Retiree pensions in the federal government’s auto rescue plan of General Motors. As you are aware, the pensions of Delphi Salaried Retirees were significantly reduced in the aftermath of the auto rescue, even though a significant amount of those retirees spent the majority of their careers under the General Motors corporate umbrella. These retirees devoted their lives to General Motors and spent those years properly planning for their retirement years so they could enjoy the fruits of their labor. While I fully agree with the administration’s decision to save the auto industry and millions of jobs, the consequence of such determinations made by the Auto Task Force, Treasury Department, and Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation continues to affect roughly 20,000 current and future Delphi salaried retirees across the nation. The Committee on Oversight and Government Reform’s hearing on July 10, 2012 shed some light on the issues at hand but I believe more documents will yield a more comprehensive explanation of how these events unfolded. I believe that these requests will ensure that Congress is provided full and complete disclosure, which is the hallmark of this great nation. Thank you for your continued dedication to this issue, and for Treasury’s ongoing efforts on this important matter. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress Letter to Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation: August 9, 2012 Mr. Joshua Gotbaum Director Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation 1200 K Street Washington, DC 20005 Dear Mr. Gotbaum: I write to request that you provide the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform additional documents and full transparency from the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) on matters pertaining to the termination of Delphi Salaried Retiree pensions in the federal government’s auto rescue plan of General Motors. As you are aware, the pensions of Delphi Salaried Retirees were significantly reduced in the aftermath of the auto rescue, even though a significant amount of those retirees spent the majority of their careers under the General Motors corporate umbrella. These retirees devoted their lives to General Motors and spent those years properly planning for their retirement years so they could enjoy the fruits of their labor. While I fully agree with the administration’s decision to save the auto industry and millions of jobs, the consequence of such determinations made by the Auto Task Force, Treasury Department, and Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation continues to affect roughly 20,000 current and future Delphi salaried retirees across the nation. The Committee on Oversight and Government Reform’s hearing on July 10, 2012 shed some light on the issues at hand but I believe more documents will yield a more comprehensive explanation of how these events unfolded. I believe that these requests will ensure that Congress is provided full and complete disclosure, which is the hallmark of this great nation. Thank you for your continued dedication to this issue, and for PBGC’s ongoing efforts on this important matter. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
08.01.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE August 1, 2012 Contact: Press Office202-225-5261 ryan.press@mail.house.gov Congressman Ryan Statement on Vote To Extend Bush Tax Cuts Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement on today’s vote to extend the Bush tax cuts (H.R. 8): “Once again, the Republican leadership is holding a vote to finance tax breaks for the most wealthy on the backs of the middle class. The bill we vote on today is especially terrible because it includes tax increases for military families – people who are already sacrificing for our country are being asked to pay for tax cuts for billionaires. More than 25 million working men and women, including military families, would be negatively affected by the Republican tax plan, which is bad enough, but reaching into the pockets of the heroes who serve is unthinkable. This bill is embarrassing and shows yet again that our priorities in Washington are totally off base. At a time when we should be working to ease the burden on middle-class families who are struggling, Republicans are forcing votes that make life harder for working people to give the super wealthy even more tax breaks. There’s a balanced, pragmatic way to solve our budget problems, but it’s clear the House Republican leadership isn’t interested in solving them. When they are, I stand ready to work with them.”
07.30.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 27, 2012 Contact: Press Office202-225-5261 ryan.press@mail.house.gov Youngstown Receiving over $4 Million in Federal Investments (Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan is pleased to announce that the City of Youngstown will receive $3,339,467 in Community Development Block Grant funding; an Emergency Shelter Grant of $315,245; and $584,083 in funding for the HOME Investment Partnership. The over $4 million allocation is from the Department of Housing and Urban Development. “Federal investments in our cities are crucial, especially in the area of housing—and I am happy to see the City of Youngstown receive this money,”said Congressman Ryan. “We will continue to work to bring our people's hard earned tax dollars back to Ohio. Investments like this are essential to create economic opportunity – and making sure people have shelter is critical to helping them achieve a stronger financial footing.” The CDBG program provides annual grants to the states and local communities to develop decent housing and suitable living conditions, and expanding economic opportunities for low and moderate income individuals. The Emergency Shelter Grant provides funding to improve the quality and number of emergency shelters available to rapidly re-house persons and prevent homelessness. The HOME program helps to expand the supply of affordable housing to low and very low income families by funding housing programs that meet local needs and priorities.
07.27.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 25, 2012 Contact: Press Office202-225-5261 ryan.press@mail.house.gov Congressman Ryan and the Department of Labor Announce that RG Steel Employees Will Get Trade Adjustment Assistance (Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan and the U.S. Department of Labor are pleased to announce the certification of RG Steel’s petition for Trade Adjustment Assistance for their laid-off workers. Trade Adjustment Assistance will assist workers in their search for re-employment through income support, training, assistance with healthcare premium costs, employment and case management services, and may include job search and relocation allowances. “Trade Adjustment Assistance will allow laid-off RG employees to get the training that will put them back in the workforce as quickly as possible,”said Congressman Ryan. “With the oil and natural gas investments pouring into our community, I am hopeful that many of these employees can get trained and find gainful employment right here in the Mahoning Valley. My office will continue to work with RG and its employees to ensure that the resources for retraining are available as soon as possible.” The Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) Program is a federal program that assists US workers who have lost their jobs as a result of foreign trade. The program provides trade-affected workers with opportunities to obtain the skills, resources, and support they need to become reemployed. For example, Trade Readjustment Allowances will provide income support while workers are participating in full-time training, which may include classroom and/or on the-job training, customized training, post-secondary education, prerequisite education or coursework and remedial education. The cost of training is paid to the training provider by the State with TAA Program funds. In addition, the Health Care Tax Credit makes health insurance more affordable for trade-affected workersby paying 72.5% of health insurance premiums. Other provided assistance may include case management services, consisting of assessments of skill levels and service needs, developing employment goals and objectives, career counseling and supportive services.
07.19.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 19, 2012 Contact: Press Office202-225-5261 ryan.press@mail.house.gov METRO Regional Transit Authority of Akron receives Department of Transportation Grant (Washington, D.C.)Congressman Tim Ryan announced today that the METRO Regional Transit Authority of Akron has been named a recipient of the Department of Transportation Discretionary Grant. The grant of $1,494,000, will aid in the purchase of new vehicles for the METRO Regional Transit Authority. “These are the kinds of investments we need for our cities,”said Congressman Ryan. “Transportation services are vital for seniors, for our workers, and our students—and this grant helps us in a way that is both practical and fuel efficient.” This discretionary grant was a part of the State of Good Repair Program issued by the Federal Transit Administration of the Department of Transportation. More than $826 million was set aside in grants to help modernize and repair the Nation’s transit buses and facilities as well as to promote sustainable clean fuel practices. The program was created to assist President Obama’s An America Built to Last campaign. Over six million members of the community use METRO services yearly. This safe and convenient method of transportation helps the citizens of Summit County travel to school and work while also promoting local business. METRO also provides bus services to Canton and Cleveland. The grant funds will continue to aid the citizens of Summit County. # # #
07.13.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 13, 2012 Contact: Press Office202-225-5261 ryan.press@mail.house.gov Congressman Ryan Expresses Disappointment with U.S. Olympic Committee and Ralph Lauren (Washington, DC) – Yesterday, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) sent letters to both the U.S. Olympic Committee and to the Ralph Lauren Corporation expressing his disappointment that once again the Olympic uniforms worn by our athletes will be manufactured in China. The Congressman suggested that if the U.S. Olympic Committee is not willing to act, he will join with his Congressional colleagues to seek legislation to remedy the situation. Congressman Ryan commented on the two letters he sent by stating: “I find it hard to believe that the Ralph Lauren Corporation has decided that clothing for our country’s finest athletes will not be made by American workers—and that the U.S. Olympic Committee has remained silent on the subject. This is first and foremost about putting Americans back to work—but it is more than that. Our U.S. Olympic team is made in America--their uniforms should be too. The text of the letter to the U.S. Olympic Committee follows: July 12, 2012 Scott Blackmun Chief Executive Officer United States Olympic Committee 27 South TejonColorado Springs, CO 80903 Dear Mr. Blackmun: I am writing today to express my extreme disappointment with the United States Olympic Committee for again allowing Ralph Lauren to manufacture the United States’ 2012 Olympic uniforms in China rather than employ U.S. workers to make the uniforms domestically. Ralph Lauren also manufactured the U.S. Olympic uniforms for the 2008 Olympics in China. I believe the U.S. Olympic Committee should be ashamed for repeatedly allowing the official manufacturer of uniforms for the U.S. Olympic team to make those uniforms overseas. In this economic climate, it is important to promote and advance American designers and American manufacturers. It is an insult to American workers that the U.S. Olympic Committee and Ralph Lauren have instead chosen Chinese factories to develop these outfits. In the future, there must an agreement between the U.S. Olympic Committee and official uniform designers that all the U.S. Olympic uniforms be made in American factories by American workers. If the U.S. Olympic Committee can’t be shamed into doing this, I will work with my colleagues to pursue legislation that would mandate such an agreement. As families gather to watch the Opening Ceremony in 2012, they will see men and women athletes who have achieved great success and represent the values of America. They should also see uniforms with “Made in America” labels. I look forward to hearing from the U.S. Olympic Committee about future agreements regarding uniforms. If you have any other questions, please do not hesitate to contact Anne Sokolov in my Washington, DC office at 202-225-5261. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress The text of the response letter I recieved from the U.S. Olympic Committee: July 19, 2012 Dear Representative Ryan: I want to take this opportunity to respond to the concerns you have expressed regarding the sourcing of our U.S. Olympic Team apparel. We understand your concerns and take them very seriously. With athletes having already arrived in London, and the apparel distribution process beginning last weekend, we are unfortunately out of time to make a change for London. We are absolutely committed, however, to working with you, and our sponsors, to ensure that your concerns are addressed. To that end, Ralph Lauren agreed on July 13 to domestically manufacture Team USA’s apparel for Opening and Closing Ceremonies for the 2014 Olympic Winter Games. Following up on constructive suggestions from last week, we are proposing to adopt a new policy position to ensure that our parade ceremony uniforms are “Made in America” in the future. We believe this policy addresses the concerns expressed by Congress on this issue. With 8 days left before the London games, we would like to ask you to join us in focusing attention on the athletes who have worked hard to represent the USA. The members of Team USA have dedicated their entire lives to training for this one moment. They are some of the finest men and women this country has to offer and they are prepared to succeed both on and off the field of play in London. With your help, Americans will rally around this team and all that they represent. Thank you again for your outreach and please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any questions. Regards, Scott A. Blackmun Chief Executive Officer The text of the letter to the Ralph Lauren Corporation follows: July 12, 2012 Ralph Lauren Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ralph Lauren Corporation 650 Madison Ave. New York, NY 10022 Dear Mr. Lauren: I am writing today to express my extreme disappointment with Ralph Lauren again manufacturing the United States’ 2012 Olympic uniforms in China. Your company should be ashamed for manufacturing their 2008 and 2012 Olympic uniforms overseas. In this economic climate, it is important to promote and advance American designers and American manufacturers. It is an insult to American workers that the U.S. Olympic Committee and Ralph Lauren have instead allowed foreign factories to develop these outfits. I urge Ralph Lauren to manufacture all future U.S. Olympic uniform replicas and designs in American factories by American workers. Since your company will make a good deal of money from selling Olympics-related clothing to the general public, I would hope Ralph Lauren would at least have the decency to allow American workers to make these replicas. As families gather to watch the Opening Ceremony in 2012, they will see men and women athletes who have achieved great success and represent the values of America. They should also see uniforms with “Made in America” labels. I look forward to hearing from you about your company’s future plans to develop their clothing in the United States. If you have any other questions, please do not hesitate to contact Anne Sokolov in my Washington, DC office at 202-225-5261. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
07.12.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 12, 2012 Contact: Press Office202-225-5261 ryan.press@mail.house.gov Congressman Tim Ryan Statement on the Supreme Court Ruling on Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act “As my colleagues in Congress and the President have said, today’s ruling by the Supreme Court is a victory for the American people. With the mandate upheld and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act left intact we as a nation can get down to the business of providing medical coverage for all Americans. “The goal of this legislation has always been to help reduce the cost of healthcare for businesses and make the system more compassionate and humane for our people. These reforms can lower the cost to our healthcare system, allowing young Americans to remain covered until they are 26, offering discounts on drugs for senior citizens, and providing coverage for pre-existing conditions. Much work still needs to be done and I would love to sit down with my Republican friends to see how best to improve upon the current system. “Many in my District struggle everyday with financial burdens as a result of chronic disease and illness. Today we respect the final decision of the Supreme Court that moves us toward a more human health care system. And now we need to get back to the important work of getting the economy moving and helping small businesses compete in a global economy.”
06.22.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE JUNE 21, 2012 Contact: Press Office202-225-5261 ryan.press@mail.house.gov RELEASE: Rep. Tim Ryan Statement in Support of the TIGER Grants for Job Creation Act Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement in support of the TIGER Grants for Job Creation Act, of which Congressman Ryan is a cosponsor: “I am proud to support the introduction of the TIGER Grants for Job Creation Act. The TIGER grant program is an important component for job creation and economic development not only in my district, but across the nation. “It is hard to find wisdom in the Republican decision on the House Appropriations Committee not to fund the TIGER program for the upcoming year. This is especially troublesome given the lack of a transportation bill that would accomplish the same goals as the TIGER program, and more importantly keep thousands of Americans employed. “As a result of TIGER funding, I have personally witnessed the economic growth and redevelopment of a community in my district. The Portage Area Regional Transportation Authority (PARTA), in collaboration with the City of Kent and Kent State University, was awarded $20 million to erect the Kent Central Gateway Multimodal Transit Facility in downtown Kent, and I am very proud to have played a leading role in securing those funds. The $20 million in TIGER funding leveraged a $105 million-plus facelift to the City of Kent, resulting in 969 construction jobs and over 700 permanent jobs, and an increase in local tax revenues. This public-private partnership will impact the City of Kent, Portage County and the greater N.E. Ohio region for decades to come. Our economy in northeastern Ohio is coming back, but we still have too many unemployed people. Now is not the time for arbitrary cancelling of funds for targeted, effective and community focused programs.”
06.20.2012	Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement in support of a Congressional Resolution introduced by Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro honoring Catholic Sisters for their contribution to the United States: “During my life, I have had the great honor of knowing a number of Catholic sisters. These women of faith are selfless givers and constantly demonstrate an unwavering commitment to social justice. In the 17th Congressional District, Catholic sisters have dedicated their lives to teaching our children in catholic schools and universities, healing our sick through Humility of Mary Health Partners, and advocating for women and children through organizations like Beatitude House and Emmanuel Community Care Center.” “Locally and across the nation, approximately 59,000 Catholic Sisters are still dedicated to serving God’s people. Isaiah chapter 25 says, ‘For you have been a defense for the helpless, a defense for the needy in distress.’ This is the legacy of the work of American Catholic Sisters, and I commend them and honor them for their work. They are deserving of our unending gratitude.”
05.17.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 16, 2012 Contact: Press Office 202-225-5261ryan.press@mail.house.gov RELEASE: Congressman Ryan Opposes Rollbacks in The Violence Against Women Act Calls for Passage of Senate Version of the Bill (Washington) - Congressman Tim Ryan today voted to support women by opposing the Republican version of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). This legislation, originally passed in 1994, and reauthorized twice, has had bipartisan support until now. The VAWA transformed the nation’s response to violence against women, and each reauthorization had improvements that strengthened the bill - including, in 2005, an amendment by Congressman Ryan authorizing grants to states for carrying out a campaign to increase public awareness regarding domestic violence against pregnant women. The bill passed today by House Republicans is the first version of this bill that actually rolls back protections that currently exist in public law. “My vote today was difficult but necessary to make my Republican colleagues realize what is missing from this bill,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “We had a bipartisan Senate bill on the House floor, which included many necessary provisions not included in the House bill. Once again, my Republican colleagues have taken a historically bipartisan law and tried to force in the wedge of partisanship.” The Senate passed a bill last month that had strong bipartisan support from every Democratic Senator and 15 Senate Republicans, including all of the Senate GOP women. The House Republican bill removes the key provisions from the bipartisan passed Senate bill ensuring all victims are assisted regardless of religion, sexual orientation or if they are Native American. Just like on the Highway Bill, Republicans are abandoning the bipartisan consensus that has always existed on VAWA reauthorizations. “Protecting woman should not be controversial. Reauthorizing The Violence Against Women Act is something we need to do—but it needs to be done responsibly. Let’s pass the Senate bill—it’s the right thing to do.” -30-
04.23.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 23, 2012 Contact: Press Office 202-225-5261ryan.press@mail.house.gov Rep. Tim Ryan Calls for Responsible Natural Gas Development Sends Letter to Support Safe, Smart Energy Solutions in the Wake of Recent Earthquakes WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan sent a letter to President Barack Obama in support of safe and responsible development of domestic natural gas resources. On April 13, 2012, the President announced the creation of an Interagency Working Group on this issue, and in his letter, Rep. Ryan urges the Administration to include the U.S. Geological Survey and experts in the field of seismology in the Working Group. Congressman Ryan also urges responsible, safe development of natural gas resources in the region, and notes the importance of understanding the connection between well injection/disposal operations and the recent seismic activity in the Youngstown-Warren region. The full text of the letter follows: The President The White House Washington, DC 20500 RE: Interagency Working Group to Support Safe and Responsible Development of Unconventional Domestic Natural Gas Resources Dear Mr. President: I want to convey my support for your ‘all of the above’ energy strategy and your administration’s attention to and support for increased natural gas development. I also fully support your Executive Order issued on April 13th to create the Interagency Working Group to Support Safe and Responsible Development of Unconventional Domestic Natural Gas Resources. I write today to ask that as you set up the Interagency Working Group, you ensure that the U.S. Geological Survey and experts in the fields of seismology and geology have an opportunity to shape the findings and recommendations of the Working Group. My congressional district, located in northeast Ohio, has seen some of the biggest increases in natural gas development in our country. With this rapid expansion has come both impressive, much-needed economic development, as well as concerns regarding environmental protection and coordination with and between federal agencies. I believe active and engaged oversight will not hamper the much needed economic investment and energy development taking place, but rather will strengthen it by allowing states and the industry to be better prepared to prevent disasters that jeopardize production and harm our environment. The treatment and disposal of chemical and salt-laden liquids resulting from natural gas extraction have the potential to be the biggest challenges to safe and responsible natural gas production. Most concerning is the possible link between waste and brine water injection wells and earthquakes that have occurred in close proximity to those wells. Indeed, my district has recently experienced a number of earthquakes that are believed to be directly connected to nearby deep well injection/disposal operations. Therefore, the expertise of the U.S. Geological Survey can play a vital role in providing the tools and research necessary to help states confidently oversee drilling operations and conduct underground injection well programs in a way that mitigates the dangers of possible induced-seismic events. Additionally, I would like to voice my concern with associated air pollution linked to the practice of ‘flaring’ at natural gas production sites. I look forward to reviewing the EPA’s newly released rules addressing air pollution at natural gas fracking sites and working with your administration to develop common-sense, cost-effective means of capturing these emissions. Doing so will not only protect the health and well-being of our citizens, but ensure we reap the full economic benefits of this growing industry. I appreciate your administration’s attention and dedication to the development of our country’s natural gas resources. Thank you for taking these concerns into consideration and I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
04.17.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE APRIL 17, 2012 Contact: Press Office 202-225-5261ryan.press@mail.house.gov Ryan: More Must Be Done To Close Wage GapOn Equal Pay Day, Congressman Calls for Wage Fairness WASHINGTON – On Equal Pay Day, Congressman Tim Ryan said more needs to be done to close the wage gap that still exists between women and men. In 1963, when women earned 59 cents for every dollar earned by a man, President Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act. Today, while progress has been made—the promise of equal pay has not become a reality. Today, women earn 77 cents for every dollar earned by men, and yet, families increasingly rely on women’s wages to make ends meet. In January 2009, Congress sent to the President’s desk the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, becoming the first bill signed into law by President Obama. This bill restored the rights of women to challenge unfair pay in court, with almost all House Republicans voting against the bill. “The Lilly Ledbetter Act is an historic advancement in the cause of income equity,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. But there are too many examples that suggest that the fight is not over. Right here in Ohio—female State employees of Governor John Kasich are being paid significantly less than their male counterparts. It is essential that we provide effective remedies to women who are not being paid equal wages for doing equal work. Unfortunately, my Republican House colleagues are standing in the way of progress on this issue. As the son of a single mother, I know how hard the women in my District work—and they are entitled to fair and just compensation.” This year, Equal Pay Day falls on Tax Day, and I am also fighting for basic fairness in taxation. Too many women with modest incomes are still paying a higher tax rate than their well-paid bosses. That is why this week Democrats fought to enact the “Buffett Rule,” which would insure that no household making over $1 million annually will pay a smaller share of their income in taxes than middle-class families pay. “I will do all that I can to strengthen the American family—and this includes women being paid equally for their work and all persons paying their fair share in taxes to support our nation,” said Congressman Ryan. -30-
03.30.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE MARCH 29, 2012 Contact: Pat Lowry (330) 717-8103ryan.press@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON –Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement in response to House of Representatives Passage of the Republican Budget: “Once again we find ourselves in the middle of a budget debate—and while the details may have changed since last year, the bottom line seems to stay the same: significant cuts to benefits to the people who rely on them the most, no plan to create jobs and a failure to invest in the future technologies that will reduce our dependency on foreign oil and reduce the squeeze average Americans are feeling because of high gas prices. This budget has no vision. This is going to force our seniors to take a Medicare voucher and negotiate with insurance companies who will want to charge higher premiums for fewer services or they will remain in what will be a significantly weakened “traditional” Medicare plan. Republicans will reopen the prescription drug donut hole and repeal the new free preventive care benefit under Medicare. And while they do this—because the top 1 percent needs ever more tax cuts—not one tax loophole closed. Republicans seem to forget that their hero Ronald Reagan raised taxes eleven times. This Republican budget asks for deep cuts, and asks our middle class to pay the price. The future they envision cuts college aid for more than nine million students—including Pell Grant awards, and this summer will raise the interest rate on student loans for nearly 7.5 million students. This budget will destroy more than four million jobs over the next two years by allowing our nation’s infrastructure to crumble, with little money for roads, bridges, railway and transit, but plenty of tax breaks for millionaires. I will not be part of a job-killing plan that does not keep the promises this country has made to our seniors and students. This is a reckless document that fails to ask the wealthiest among us to make any sacrifice at all—and makes life more difficult for our shrinking middle class and expanding under-class. We can do better.”
03.20.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE MARCH 20, 2012 Contact: Press Office 202-225-5261 ryan.press@mail.house.gov Statement of Rep. Tim Ryan on the Republican Budget WASHINGTON – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) issued the following statement today on the Republican budget: "The 'new' Republican budget is remarkably similar to last year’s Republican budget, with one major difference – the new version is even worse for middle-class Americans who are just starting to regain their footing after one of the worst economic periods in our country’s history. The Republican budget abdicates any responsibility to create jobs, rebuild the country’s infrastructure and adequately fund the education of our children. This budget shows that Congressional Republicans have learned nothing from the last ten years, and gives a clear picture of their priorities: the wealthy get lower taxes while the middle class and seniors get higher taxes and higher Medicare costs. "At this critical moment in our economic recovery, we need to invest in rebuilding our nation and providing high paying jobs for our middle class. We need to chart a clear course for the future, and the Republican budget doesn’t do any of this, setting us back in our efforts to improve the economy by underfunding needed investments, and purposely distracting the country from finding real solutions. This plan was created to re-create the divisiveness we saw last year in Congress, and I am certain the American people will reject it just as soundly this year as they did last year. I continue to hope that we can use the budget process to work together to come up with smart, bold solutions for the challenges we face. We can start by defeating the Republican budget." -30-
03.19.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE MARCH 19, 2012 Contact: Press Office 202-225-5261ryan.press@mail.house.gov RYAN, BROWN APPLAUD YOUNGSTOWN BUSINESS INCUBATOR AND TECHUDSON PARTNERSHIP TO BOLSTER SMALL BUSINESSES “Business Incubators” Often Provide Initial Office Space, Training, and Other Resources to Fledgling EnterprisesOhio is Home to the National Business Incubation Association; Report Shows Every $10,000 in EDA Funds Invested in Business Incubators Generates an Estimated 47-69 Local Jobs WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Tim Ryan (Oh-17) and Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) today applauded a new partnership between the Youngstown Business Incubators and TECHudson designed to bolster small businesses in the region. “We have learned here in Northeast Ohio that success can only come through collaboration. By working together we strengthen networks, share resources and, instead of trying to get a bigger piece of a smaller pie, we are creating even more opportunities for success. The collaboration with TECHudson will broaden the impact of the more than 300 employees and 25 businesses already working with the YBI, and helps to set the stage for even more innovative programs down the line. I am grateful for the vision and leadership of Jim Cossler at the YBI and Jim Phipps at TECHudson. They are examples of why Youngstown and Northeast Ohio are getting international recognition for the economic renaissance that is happening,” said Rep. Ryan. “Today’s signing of an unprecedented agreement between the Youngstown Business Incubator and TECHudson will help bolster Ohio’s role as a national leader in the successful development and launch of new small businesses,” Brown said. “Business incubators – like YBI and TECHudson – reduce the risks entrepreneurs face, provide critical resources for young companies in need, and help create jobs in Ohio. That’s why I’ve authored the Business Incubator Promotion Act, which would help create new business incubators and allow existing incubators to expand.” According to an independent report commissioned by the EDA, every $10,000 in EDA funds invested in business incubators generates an estimated 47 to 69 local jobs. In rural areas, business incubator projects are the most effective type of EDA projects. The NBIA estimates that in 2005, business incubators supported more than 27,000 start-up companies providing full-time employment to more than 100,000 workers—generating more than $17 billion in annual revenue. NBIA also points to research showing that every dollar of federal funds devoted to an incubator generates approximately $30 in local tax revenue. -30-
03.16.2012	WASHINGTON – In response to rising gas prices that are hurting most Americans, Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement: “Over the past few years, gas prices have risen steadily, and are now approaching $4 per gallon. In spite of the progress that has been made in reviving the economy, rising gas prices threaten a full recovery, and continue to hurt hard-working American families. Opening the Strategic Oil Reserve should be part of the President’s “all of the above” energy policy. Opening the SOR will reduce speculation, increase the amount of oil on the market and reduce prices at the gas pump. I call upon the President to make the Strategic Oil Reserve supply available as soon as possible. We shouldn’t take any options off the table when it comes to lowering gas prices.” # # #
03.13.2012	WASHINGTON – Today, in light of the recent controversy surrounding Rush Limbaugh's attack on Sandra Fluke, Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-17) introduced a bill to ensure that the Pentagon avoids supporting programs that exhibit values contrary to the basic values of the Armed Forces and the United States. "It is a disgrace that some programming on the Armed Forces Network harasses women to the point of slandering them as a 'slut' or a 'prostitute' simply for standing up for health issues," said Rep. Tim Ryan. "The men and women of our Armed Forces should not be subjected to this type of hate as they bravely fight for American values at home and abroad. My bill does not censor any programming, but it does ask the Department of Defense to annually evaluate whether its programming is contrary to the values of the Armed Forces and the United States. This is a basic issue of common sense and decency, and it's disappointing that the U.S. Congress has been forced to stand up as the last defense against bullies who don't know when they've crossed a line. I hope the American Forces Radio and Television Service makes the decision to re-evaluate its relationship with Rush Limbaugh, but if they don't, they should at least be forced to stand behind him and justify that decision." Rep. Ryan's legislation would require the Pentagon to stand behind all its programming by annually certifying to the Congress "that all programming broadcast by the American Forces Radio and Television Service represents the best-faith efforts by the Department of Defense to provide programming that communicates the policies, priorities, programs, goals, and initiatives of the Department while avoiding airing programming that exhibits values contrary to the values of the Armed Forces and the United States." A copy of Rep. Ryan's legislation is available here.
03.13.2012	WASHINGTON – In response to recently announced cuts to the Youngstown Air Reserve Station, Representative Tim Ryan (OH-17) released the following statement: "While I am disappointed with the announced cuts to the Youngstown Air Reserve Station, I am thankful that the Mahoning Valley avoided deeper cuts that could have set back our community's economic development efforts. "This past year, Congress passed a misguided plan to make dramatic cuts throughout our national budget. In many communities across Ohio, from Mansfield to Dayton, these cuts run much deeper than the situation the Youngstown Air Reserve Station is now facing. The announced reduction at the Youngstown base is significant, but I'm confident in the resiliency and professionalism of our Reservists and their ability to continue to not only perform at a superior level, but also to help us lure future missions to our base. This nationwide reduction will continue, and everyone will be asked to sacrifice. But there will also be consolidation and the shifting of missions. My goal as a member of the armed services committee is to begin the process of trying to land more missions, personnel and technology at Youngstown. I am deeply thankful that we have avoided deeper cuts, and I will continue to work hard to bring more investment to our base in the future. " BACKGROUND: In order to comply with the Budget Control Act's requirements to cut $487 billion from the defense budget over the next 10 years, the Air Force Reserve Command recently announced cuts impacting Reservists across the country. In addition to a nationwide reduction of 900 Air Force Reservists, the U.S. Air Force also plans to reduce their forces by 3,900 active duty Airmen and 5,100 Air National Guard Airmen. These cuts will impact facilities across the State of Ohio: Base Representative Positions Reduced Mansfield Jim Jordan -806 (-80% loss on base) Rickenbacker Steve Austria -193 (-13% loss on base) Springfield Steve Austria -47 (-4% loss on base) Toledo Robert E. Latta -1 (-0.1 loss on base) Wright-Patt Steve Austria -395 (-2% loss on base) YARS Tim Ryan -133 (-7% loss on base)
03.06.2012	Bill Will Help Hold Countries Like China Accountable WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 4105, a bill to reverse a court decision that interfered with the Federal Government's ability to apply countervailing duty law to non-market economies (NME), such as China. Representative Tim Ryan (OH-17) co-sponsored this legislation and supported its final passage today. "Ohio has lost close to 100,000 jobs due to unfair trade practices by China," said Rep. Ryan. "It's absolutely essential we do everything we can to ensure that our trade relationships are fair. I'm glad the House was able to come together today and pass this minor fix to our trade law with bipartisan support, but we must start to tackle the larger trade issues together if we're going to make any progress for American jobs and businesses. Last year, the U.S. Senate passed a bill to hold China accountable for currency manipulation, and today, almost four months later, we still haven't held a vote on it in the House. I'm proud that President Obama has proposed the creation of a new trade enforcement unit, but I'm still waiting for Congress to take its own bold action to hold our trade partners accountable." H.R. 4105 overturns a federal court decision in GPX v. United States and preserves the validity of the countervailing duty proceedings against imports from China and Vietnam. This legislation also addresses an adverse World Trade Organization (WTO) ruling that there may be "double remedies" in situations where countervailing duties are applied to NME exports at the same time that antidumping duties calculated using the so-called "surrogate value" methodology are applied to the exports.
03.05.2012	WASHINGTON – Recently, the United States Postal Service announced the consolidation of 223 of its 461 mail processing facilities across the country. These closings will cut approximately 35,000 jobs, and will consolidate the processing facilities in Akron and Youngstown into one facility in Cleveland, Ohio. In response to the consolidation of these mail processing facilities, Representative Tim Ryan (OH-17) contacted Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe with the following questions: The Honorable Patrick Donahoe Postmaster General U.S. Postal Service 475 L'Enfant Plaza, SW Washington, DC 20260-0010 Dear Postmaster General Donahoe: I am writing regarding your correspondence dated February 23, 2012, which notified me of the potential consolidation of mail processing facilities in Northeast Ohio beginning this summer. As you know, the impacted Area Mail Processing (AMP) facilities within my district are located in Youngstown and Akron, Ohio. You have provided an estimate of the annual savings from each closure and consolidation but I have not received any basic information on how these figures were reached. In order to better understand how the United States Postal Service (Postal Service) reached its conclusions, please provide me with a non-redacted copy of each (AMP) Study conducted for the affected facilities within my district. I have serious reservations about the context of the studies that produced the plan to close and consolidate the Akron & Youngstown facilities as there were apparent discrepancies regarding mileage and efficiency ratings during the November 15th Akron and December 28th Youngstown meetings respectively. Notably, during the Youngstown public meeting, my representative was specifically told the study was based on moving portions of the Youngstown workload into the Pittsburgh Processing Center. However, your letter is showing that the absorbing facility will be the Cleveland Processing Center. I have obtained additional information that suggests this change may have been approved prior to the public meeting. If so, has there been a secondary AMP study of the Youngstown facility to establish a reliable cost basis for the move to the alternative absorbing facility? Though these are difficult times, I believe we owe the postal workers and our constituents the utmost transparency concerning their livelihood. Also, during each public meeting relative to these proposals, members of the public expressed specific concerns about the cost savings estimates and how they were calculated. I would appreciate knowing how the Postal Service addressed these questions and how public comment was considered during the AMP process. As you provide this information, I am particularly interested in receiving answers to the following questions: • How many jobs will be eliminated, and how many transferred at each facility? • What is the distance of each transfer and compensation plans for employees traveling greater than 50 miles from their originating facility? • What are the additional projected savings and additional projected costs including structural or facility upgrades for the absorbing Cleveland facility? According to your letter, these consolidations are contingent on the issuance of a final rule revising first class mail standards. The Postal Service filed a request for an advisory opinion with the Postal Regulatory Commission (PRC) regarding these revised standards on December 5, 2011. The PRC currently has this matter under consideration and is expected to issue their findings once complete. Many of my constituents believe the Postal Service intends to proceed with these closures immediately following the expiration of the closure moratorium on May 15th. The Postal Service agreed to this moratorium to allow Congress the time to consider postal reform legislation. I would appreciate your assurance that the Postal Service will wait until after the advisory opinion of the PRC has been issued before taking any steps relative to any mail processing facility closure. The current mail delivery process is a loyal, trustworthy, and successful system. I fully understand the serious nature of the Postal Service's current financial situation and the need to take immediate action. I sincerely hope the Postal Service does not take actions that would diminish the universal service obligation and undercut our postal-workers, small businesses, and senior citizens who depend upon this vital service. Without accurate data, it is impossible to know the true impact that closing these facilities would have upon efficiency and long-term viability of the Postal Service. Thank you for your time and attention to this matter. I trust my request will be handled in a timely manner. If you have any questions, please contact Mark Callion in my Warren, Ohio office at (330) 373-0074 or email Mark.Callion@mail.house.gov, and he will be able to assist you. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
03.02.2012	WASHINGTON – In response to recent Republican attacks against women, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) released the following statement: "Conservative Republican leaders are sending a message about women. They get more righteous with each passing day, but they won't come out and just say what they really think – that we should be setting back by 50 years the progress made by women. Rick Santorum doesn't believe women should be serving with men in the Armed Services, Republicans in Congress continue to look for ways to limit women's access to contraceptive medication, Virginia Republicans have been arguing about invasive "transvaginal" ultrasounds that serve no medical purpose, and here in Ohio we're facing a draconian personhood amendment in November and seeing divisive votes meant to re-ignite the abortion debate instead of focusing on the dire economic situation in our state. Now, on the first day of Women's History Month, Rush Limbaugh went on the air and demonized a graduate student as a "slut" for being willing to go before Congress and discuss her personal medical issues. Limbaugh's attacks are no surprise given the hysterics of the right-wing, but his advertisers should be embarrassed to be associated with this kind of misogynistic, degrading language. I call on all of the advertisers on Rush Limbaugh's show to pull their support from his program which slanders the character of a college student simply to boost his own ratings. Republicans are painting a clear picture of how they see women – and it's a vision that has no place in modern America."
02.27.2012	WASHINGTON – Today, Representative Tim Ryan (OH-17) released the following statement in response to the shooting at a high school in Chardon, Ohio: "I want to express my deepest condolences to the students, faculty, staff and their families affected by today's terrible tragedy at Chardon High School. We simply must work harder to ensure students are able to go to school and know that they can learn in a safe environment. The investigation into today's events will tell us more about what happened, but no official explanation will heal the pain of today's incident for the community. In the meantime, I send my most sincere wishes for a full recovery to the students who were injured and my heartfelt sympathies to the family and friends of Daniel Parmentor, the student who died." Press Contact:Jerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261 Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
02.24.2012	Award Will Enable Port Authority to Encourage Investment in Regional Economic Development WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-17) congratulated the Summit County Port Authority on their selection for a $20 million New Market Tax Credit award by the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund (CDFI). “I’m excited for the impact this $20 million tax credit award will have on our efforts to spark economic development in Summit County, and throughout our region,” said Rep. Ryan. “Now more than ever, we’re making strong investments at home that will help bring local development, innovation, and jobs to our community. We’ve already seen the success of this strategy with the Youngstown Business Incubator and the Tech Belt Energy Innovation Center in Warren as we begin to rebuild and reinvest in our communities. I’m excited for the opportunity to make significant investments in economic development in Summit County, and I’m grateful for all the hard work performed by the Summit County Port Authority and the federal government to make this possible. ”The New Market Tax Credit award program was created by Congress in 2000 and allows designated Community Development Entities, such as the Summit County Port Authority, to provide individual and corporate taxpayers with financial incentives for local economic development. Community Development Entities are permitted to provide investors with tax credits that total 39 percent of the cost of regional investments that can be claimed over a seven-year period. “We're pleased to have this economic development tool available as a method to attract private investment capital to Northeast Ohio,” said Summit County Port Authority President Chris Burnham. “This should enable us to assist with financing projects which otherwise might not be able to proceed, and we thank Congressman Ryan for his support.” Rep. Tim Ryan wrote to the CDFI in May to recommend Summit County Port Authority’s application for a New Market Tax Credit allocation. Of the 314 groups that applied for New Market Tax Credits, the Summit County Port Authority is 1 out of only 70 organizations that received awards. For more information on the New Market Tax Credit program award:2011 NMTC Program Awards 2011 NMTC Program Award Booklet 2011 NMTC Program Award List 2011 NMTC Program Highlights 2011 NMTC Program Allocatee States Served2011 NMTC Program Allocatee Profiles Press Contact:Jerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
02.23.2012	WARREN – Today, Representative Tim Ryan (OH-17) released the following statement on the United States Postal Service's decision to consolidate the Akron and Youngstown processing distribution centers into one facility in Cleveland: "I'm deeply disappointed with the United States Postal Service's decision to close the processing facilities in Akron and Youngstown. While I understand the Postal Service must cut costs in order to stay competitive and solvent in a changing market, I believe that at this point, there were other steps that should have been taken before these facilities were closed. "The biggest impediment to the Postal Service's success is the requirement to overfund its pension system. I have co-sponsored legislation that addresses this problem, but it has yet to receive the support it needs to get to the President's desk. I believe if we stood up and tackled the big issues facing the postal service, we would not be forced to nickel and dime the workers and make these sorts of cuts which will just temporarily patch a larger problem." Press Contact:Jerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261 Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
02.22.2012	WARREN – Today, Representative Ryan (OH-17) announced the award of nearly $1 million in combined federal grants for the Ravenna and Girard Fire Departments. These grants are possible through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Department of Homeland Security. The Girard Fire Department is the recipient of $853,100 for vehicle acquisition. The Ravenna Township Fire Department is awarded $94,145 for operations and safety. "I'm excited to announce that Ravenna Township and Girard Fire Departments are the recipients of nearly $1 million in federal awards to help the departments update their equipment and improve their safety," said Rep. Ryan. "These men and women from Ravenna and Girard are on the frontlines of our communities every day, protecting our homes, businesses, and families from disaster. The least that we can do to thank them is to ensure they have the proper tools to stay safe and do their jobs well. I'm thankful for all the work these communities, my staff, and the federal government did to make these grants possible." The purpose of the AFG is to award grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations that are unaffiliated with a hospital to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel. Grants are awarded to applicants through a competitive process that is overseen by fire service subject matter experts. During this round of grants, the Girard Fire Department received the largest grant of the eight awards statewide. "This is the largest grant our Fire Department has ever received—and it is extremely significant for our small community," said Girard Fire Chief Kenneth Bornemiss. "It is going to buy a piece of equipment our community has needed for 10—maybe 20 years. Our current ladder truck is 40 years old this year, and without this money, we can't buy one. Thanks to Congressman Ryan for everything he does for our firefighters—and thanks to fireman Luke Grunder, Safety Service Director Jerrry Lambert and Mayor Jim Melfi for their continuing support." "On behalf of the Ravenna Township community, I cannot speak enough of how very pleased I am to hear of RTFD's DHS grant award," said Ravenna Township Fire Chief Steven Bosso. "Many hours of research and narrative writing went into our efforts, but the real beneficiaries are the residents of the community that we so proudly serve. The majority of the award will be spent on new state-of-the-art cardiac monitors/defibrillators and Automatic External Defibrillators (AED), which will enhance our professional EMS delivery. The remaining award will be spent on replacing all outdated fire hose, self contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) and turn out gear, which will help ensure that our firefighters have the tools to remain safe while performing their duties and enabling them to return home safely to their families." Press Contact:Jerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261 Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
02.14.2012	WASHINGTON – In response to the release of President Obama's FY2013 budget, Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement: "President Obama released a budget for the coming year that shows a deep commitment to strengthening working families, promoting innovation and small businesses, and reducing economic inequality. I'm pleased the President has started the discussion about the coming fiscal year on the right tone, and I look forward to giving his proposal serious consideration as we begin the long process of drafting the federal budget. The President's budget follows through on his vision for an economy built to last by making a major investment in America's roads, bridges, and broadband in order to put people back to work to update our decaying national infrastructure for the 21st century. The budget makes a major commitment to education and building strong partnerships between community colleges and small businesses to train students for the jobs of tomorrow. And the budget dedicates resources to a new trade enforcement agency to safeguard American manufacturing and ensure that countries like China that engage in unfair and illegal trade practices are held accountable. Throughout this budget, the President has shown again and again that he's committed to growing our economy and putting Americans in Youngstown, Akron, and Warren back to work while responsibly reducing the national deficit by over $4 trillion dollars over ten years. And by implementing the "Buffet Rule" and asking everyone to pay their fair share, the President has recognized that our budget should reflect our fundamental belief in fairness – that in America everyone that plays by the rules and works hard should have the opportunity to succeed." Press Contact:Jerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261 Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
02.13.2012	WARREN – Today, Representative Tim Ryan (OH-17) highlighted the collaboration of federal, state, and private sources coming together to support the TechBelt Energy Innovation Center (TBEIC) in Warren, Ohio. Recently, business and industry leaders throughout the "TechBelt Corridor" expressed strong financial support for TBEIC. Donors and supporters currently include utility, manufacturing and financial corporations as well as private foundations. These contributors comprise the initial participants in the current founding round of fundraising to support the establishment of TBEIC as a major influence in the local economy, and a unique resource to the state and industry. "TBEIC is going to grow the technologies and companies of the future,” said Rep. Tim Ryan. “The frontier of energy is full of possibilities. And the communities that are open to innovation and supportive of entrepreneurs will reap the benefits. These investments coming from other areas of the state are proof that we are beginning to lead the green revolution that is coming. By taking the lead on energy innovation, we will provide many of our young people that fled our community an opportunity to come back home to make a living in an exciting field and raise their families close to home. Everything is really coming together right now. It’s an incredibly exciting time for the Mahoning Valley.” Rep. Ryan was instrumental in the development of TBEIC by securing $2.2 million from the Department of Energy in the FY2010 federal appropriations legislation for the "greening" of the former Kresge facility. In addition to this federal support, TBEIC recently received $500,000 in state capital funding through an Ohio Board of Regents grant jointly awarded to TBEIC and Youngstown State University. Ohio State Senator Capri Cafaro was instrumental in securing this funding. "The TBEIC is a crucial component to economic development in the Valley and a great example of federal, state, and regional collaboration. The Center's focus on advanced energy is important to local job creation and the environmental health and future of our community," said Senator Cafaro. This combination of federal and state funding has aided in the purchase and eventual renovation and construction of TBEIC's facility on the square in downtown Warren as it begins its mission to promote advanced energy research and development. "Innovation is the engine of growth. The City of Warren welcomes the opportunity to partner with the TechBelt Energy Innovation Center in building a bridge to our future," said Warren Mayor Doug Franklin. TBEIC is also aggressively identifying and applying for potential future sources of funding through other avenues such as Ohio's Third Frontier Program. The Third Frontier Program supports the development and commercialization of new technology, and the delivery of entrepreneurial services and funding for start-up technology companies in Ohio. In pursuing these programs, TBEIC is building the industry and regional economic development relationships that will have lasting impact in the Valley. "We are excited about the progress being made to develop TBEIC and the support and cooperation we are receiving" said Dave Nestic, TBIEC's chief executive of regional operations. "This is a unique concept in business incubation and shared resources for such an important industry and it is happening right here in the Mahoning Valley in downtown Warren. People here can be proud of that." Press Contact: Jerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261 Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
02.10.2012	Williams, the Former Mayor of Youngstown, is the Executive Director of Recovery for Auto Communities and Workers WASHINGTON – U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-17) today applauded the news of a meeting between the Delphi Salaried Retirees Association (DRSA) and Executive Director of Recovery for Auto Communities and Workers Jay Williams. Williams served as Mayor of Youngstown until August 2011, and Brown and Ryan helped arrange the meeting between the DRSA and Williams. "As Jay knows from his years spent in the Mahoning Valley, thousands of retirees in Ohio dedicated their careers to working for Delphi and General Motors. Many of these retirees are continuing to experience economic hardship following the collapse of their former employer," Brown said. "Even though Jay has moved onto a new role in the Department of Labor, he hasn't forgotten about Ohio and its auto workers—and I applaud him for meeting with the Delphi Salaried Retirees Association today. I encourage Jay to do whatever possible to assist these retirees, who have yet to receive the pensions they earned and deserve." "Former Delphi union and salaried retirees continue to struggle with the fallout from a policy that wiped away many of the financial promises Delphi made to its workforce," Ryan said. "The treatment of these former Delphi employees was unjust when it was proposed, and it continues to be unjust today. I know executive director Williams will take the concerns of these Delphi retirees back to Washington and continue to work toward a resolution that fairly restores some of the promises Delphi made to its workforce in better times. Jay has always been a friend to the working men and women of the Mahoning Valley and Ohio, so I am certain he will do everything he can to help. These men and women are our friends and neighbors, and they deserve better." Last Congress, Brown and Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-17) led a bipartisan group of nine Senators and 24 Representatives from Ohio, Iowa, Michigan, Mississippi, and New York in a letter to the President calling for the federal government to restore fairness for Delphi retirees and minimize the economic effect of the pension loss on their communities. Brown also invited a representative of the Delphi Salaried Retirees Association to testify before the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee (HELP) in October 2009. In December 2009, Brown and Ryan testified on behalf of the Delphi retirees before the House Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions Subcommittee (HELP). Last Congress, Brown also cosponsored legislation that would have curbed abuses that deny employees and retirees of their pensions when businesses collapse. The Protecting Employees and Retirees in Business Bankruptcies Act would make several changes to Chapter 11 bankruptcy law, emphasizing worker and retiree interests when companies file for bankruptcy. Press Contact: Jerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261 Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
02.03.2012	WASHINGTON – In response to the U.S. Air Force's announced restructuring plans, Jerid Kurtz, a spokesman for Rep. Tim Ryan, released the following statement: "Today the U.S. Air Force announced restructuring plans that will impact 60 installations in over 33 states," said Rep. Ryan's spokesman. "Across the nation, over 227 aircraft will be retired or canceled in fiscal year 2013, with six older-model C-130 aircraft scheduled for retirement at the Youngstown Air Reserve Station. "However, unlike other facilities, it was also announced that the Youngstown Air Reserve Station will receive four newer model C-130's during the restructuring. The transfer of these newer model C-130's to the Youngstown facility will enable local reservists to train on advanced technology aircraft and ensure that Youngstown has access to the same cutting edge instruments deployed throughout the U.S. Air Force. "As we move forward with Congress' plan to cut half a trillion from the defense budget, everyone will be asked to make a little sacrifice. But news like this reminds us of Youngstown's resiliency and ability to come up with the best in difficult situations." Press Contact:Jerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261 Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
01.19.2012	Thursday, January 19, 2012 WASHINGTON – Recently, Representative Tim Ryan (OH-13) contacted the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) to express concerns over recent seismic activity in the Youngstown, Ohio region. Representative Tim Ryan contacted the USEPA to gather more information about the potential link between earthquakes and the injection-well procedures. Representative Ryan also posed questions about whether operator error of an injection well could lead to seismic activity, and whether the reporting process for State submission of pumping records for review is sufficient. Throughout 2011, Youngstown experienced increased minor seismic activity. On December 31, 2011, the U.S. Geological Survey reported that an earthquake measuring 4.0 on the Richter scale struck within 100 yards of a brine-injection well responsible for disposing of a byproduct of hydraulic fracturing. State of Ohio officials believe there could be a link between this most recent earthquake and was the result of injecting waste water from a brine-injection well into the ground near a fault line. A copy of Representative Ryan's letter follows: Lisa Jackson, AdministratorUSEPA HeadquartersAriel Rios Building1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N. W.Mail Code: 1101AWashington, DC 20460 Dear Administrator Jackson: I am inquiring today to get some insight and technical analysis on recent seismic activity in the Youngstown area within my Congressional District. There are indications this seismic activity resulted from the injection of brine water into wells located in close proximity to the earthquake epicenters. In addition to my concerns regarding the potential connection between the recent earthquakes and injection wells, I have significant concerns moving forward with the review process for location selection of injection wells, as well as the amount of mapping information that is being developed and shared between agencies. As you are certainly aware, the Appalachian region of the country has seen a recent boom in subsurface exploration due to the discovery of natural gas in Marcellus and Utica Shale, as well as the continued innovation in the drilling technology used to extract the resource. Certain areas of my Congressional District, Ohio's 17th, have already seen significant activity in hydraulic fracturing and injection wells. Unfortunately, the area has also seen the regular occurrence of earthquakes over the course of the past year. There have been 11 recorded earthquakes in the Youngstown area, culminating with a 4.0 magnitude earthquake on December 31st. According to a January 5th Columbus Dispatch article, the 4.0 earthquake had an epicenter just 330 feet from a magnitude 2.7 earthquake that took place on December 24th. In that same article, there is a quote from Columbia University seismologist John Armbruster in reference to affirming the connection between the injection wells and the quakes where he claims "I find the evidence convincing." Throughout the past month, my staff and I have been talking to relevant staff of the US EPA, USGS, the Congressional Research Service (CRS), and local officials in order to gather as much information as possible and try to identify if there is anything that needs to be done at the federal level to help states be better prepared. I would like to get your official assessment on some technical issues associated with the recent seismic activity and its connection to injection wells. 1. Is there any prior EPA research regarding the phenomena of earthquakes in close proximity to active injection wells? Have you made or been informed of a definitive determination on their cause in previous cases? Do you plan on conducting an official study on the causes of the recent magnitude 4.0 earthquake near the Ohio Works well site? 2. Could operator error at the injection well or the purposeful increase of pressure beyond the normally allowed pressure limits cause seismic activity? If operator error or the purposeful increase of pressure beyond the normally allowed pressure limits caused a fracture or seismic activity, would EPA be made aware of this violation? If so, how quickly would EPA receive this information? 3. Is USEPA sufficiently satisfied with the reporting process from States' (specifically Ohio) pumping records? I want you to know that I appreciate the work of the USEPA and its monitoring of this situation. I look forward to a continued dialogue with your agency as we work towards developing responsible oversight of this emerging industry and technology. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Tim RyanMember of Congress A copy of Representative Ryan's letter to the United States Environmental Protection Agency is available here. A copy of Representative Ryan's letter to the United States Geological Survey is available here. A copy of Representative Ryan's letter to the Ohio Department of Natural Resources is available here. Press Contact:Jerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
01.05.2012	Thursday, January 5, 2012 WASHINGTON – Recently, Representative Tim Ryan (OH-13) contacted the Ohio Department of Natural Resources (ODNR) to express concerns over recent seismic activity in the Youngstown, Ohio region. Throughout 2011, Youngstown experienced increased minor seismic activity. On December 31, 2011, the U.S. Geological Survey reported that an earthquake measuring 4.0 on the Richter scale struck within 100 yards of a brine-injection well responsible for disposing of a byproduct of hydraulic fracturing. State of Ohio officials believe there could be a link between this most recent earthquake and was the result of injecting waste water from a brine-injection well into the ground near a fault line. Following the Ohio Department of Natural Resources announcement of a moratorium on future brine-injection operations within five miles of the brine-injection well near the recent quake, Representative Tim Ryan sent the following letter to ODNR to gather information and express his concerns: James ZehringerDirector, ODNRBuilding C-3, 2045 Morse RdColumbus, OH 43229 Dear Director Zehringer: I am writing you today to express my concerns with the recent seismic activity in my Congressional District and the apparent correlation with wastewater injection wells located in my district. I would also like to obtain some information on the current review process for permitting the injection wells. I would like to establish a dialogue on how we can work together to further inform the public on the safety of underground injection and continue development of Ohio's precious natural resources. I would first like to commend you and the Ohio Department of Natural Resources on the establishment of a moratorium on brine-injection operations within five miles of the Ohio Works well site. It is clear that the treatment and processing of waste and brine water resulting from oil and gas development, including the hydraulic fracturing process stands to be one of the most complicated challenges to safely developing the Marcellus and Utica Shales. It is important that all parties involved – state and federal regulators drilling companies, the oil and gas industry, landowners, and local communities – play a cooperative and engaged role at every step of the process. It is critical that we view the entire cycle, from development to production to site reclamation, as equally important steps in natural gas exploration. This especially includes how we as a state and a country develop responsible oversight of the hydraulic fracturing byproduct disposal process so the industry can continue to flourish, while also keeping our communities safe. As you know, many of my constituents are worried and have expressed their concerns regarding the potential for more earthquakes in the future. To that end, I would like to ask a few questions on behalf of the residents of the 17th Congressional District: 1. What is the process by which ODNR or another state agency grants waivers to allow higher than normal levels of injection pressure? How often does this occur? Were there any waivers requested and/or granted for injection wells in the vicinity of the recent 4.0 earthquake? Has your assessment of the seismic activity so far indicated any relationship between the pressure waivers and the recent earthquakes? 2. Were there any steps taken to specifically detect the existence of fault lines under existing or proposed injection well sites? What is the process by which the State of Ohio can determine if there are any other injection wells located over a geologic fault line? 3. When was the last time Ohio updated its Underground Injection Control Program for Class II Wells? In the wake of increased shale development and exploration, there stands to be a corresponding increase in the need for brine water disposal. Since the program's approval by the USEPA in 1983, there have been substantial changes in drilling technology, lessons learned from the existing program and new seismic and USGS data to take into account. Does your administration have plans to update the Underground Injection Control Program for Class II Wells and submit the updated plan to USEPA? I know that we share the same optimistic view that Marcellus and Utica Shale exploration—of which injection well disposal is a critical step in the process--can be a significant economic boom for the State of Ohio. However, the rapid development and innovation in the field of gas exploration requires an equal level of increased oversight and modernized regulations. I fully acknowledge the burden this can present to already fiscally-strained local and state governments, such as Ohio. I would like you to know that I stand ready to help in any way I can to attain federal assistance or urge federal agencies to provide the state of Ohio with assistance should it be necessary. I also plan on writing to USGS to inquire about their efforts in investigating the connection between injection wells and earthquakes. Thank you for your attention to this matter and I look forward to hearing from you and working with you towards safe and responsible Marcellus and Utica Shale development. Sincerely, Tim RyanMember of Congress A copy of the letter is available here. Press Contact:Jerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
01.04.2012	Wednesday, January 4, 2012 WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to President Obama's appointment of former Ohio Attorney General, Richard Cordray, to head the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. "Republicans and Democrats both agree that Rich Cordray is a tireless advocate of justice with an exceptional legal background," said Congressman Ryan. "Unfortunately, Republicans have sided with Wall Street to block not just Rich's nomination, but any nominee, to head the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau because they are intent on weakening the Bureau's ability to police some of the worst practices of pay day lenders, debt collectors, and others. After record foreclosures, bankruptcies, and the greatest economic collapse since the Great Depression, I'd have hoped my tea party colleagues would have shown a greater willingness to allow someone as well qualified as Rich to get to work. However, today the President took a bold step to protect American consumers by standing up against Republican obstruction and appointing Rich as the Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in Congress' absence. I'm certain that Rich will act with the same fairness and transparency he displayed in Ohio as Attorney General as he takes on his new job at the CFPB to safeguard American consumers."
12.22.2011	Thursday, December 22, 2011WASHINGTON – In response to news that House Republicans had finally agreed to pass the two-month bipartisan Senate compromise of the payroll tax cut, Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement:“Over the past week, House Republicans backed themselves into a corner by refusing to allow a vote on the Senate bipartisan compromise to extend the payroll tax cut for over 160 million workers and maintain unemployment benefits for over 3 million Americans. Make no mistake, House Republicans are intent on a government of, by, and for the tea party. Fortunately the public has caught on to the fact that these extremist, tea party tactics are harming the economy and working class families. Due to public pressure, tea party Republicans have finally reversed course and agreed to a two-month extension of the payroll tax cut while we work out the details of a one year package. I’m thankful that House Republicans have finally agreed to drop their extremist tea party demands. I hope House Republicans will show a greater willingness to work towards compromise than they have recently as we negotiate a full year extension of President Obama’s payroll tax cut.” Press Contact:Jerid Kurtz, (202) 738-7653Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
12.20.2011	Tuesday, December 20, 2011 WASHINGTON – In response to House Republicans refusal to pass the bipartisan Senate compromise to extend the payroll tax cut and federal unemployment insurance, Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement: “Once again, we’re down to the wire on a Tea Party-manufactured crisis that makes a fundamental difference to working people, and, like clockwork, the extremist Republican Tea Party Leadership is doing everything except handling the people’s business. The Senate usually can’t get consensus on what time it is, but somehow, in the spirit of cooperation, 89 of them managed to put aside their differences to pass a bill that addresses the interests of the middle class for long enough to allow us to craft a more long-term solution. In response, the Republican Tea Party Leadership in the House has set up a showdown, with stakes that are only high for those most in need right now – they are once again holding middle-class Americans hostage for political gain. Republican House members need to realize that Americans desperately need another $1,000 in their pockets to pay for gas, groceries, or a mortgage ; the radicals in Congress need to start acting like adults, get their priorities in order and pass this legislation. “ Press Contact:Jerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
12.19.2011	Monday, December 19, 2011 WASHINGTON – Congressman Tim Ryan (D – OH) has signed on as an original co-sponsor of the Cents and Sensibility Act and the STEEL Nickel Act to reduce the production costs of nickel and pennies, and to make sure they are minted with American steel instead of imported minerals. Representatives Steve Stivers (D – OH) and Pat Tiberi (R – OH) are also signed on as original co-sponsors of the bipartisan legislation. "At a time when too many of our products are being manufactured in other countries, we should at least be able to buy those products with money produced using materials made in America," Rep. Ryan said. "Using American steel will reduce the cost of producing nickels and pennies by hundreds of millions of dollars over the next ten years, and shows that the United States is still a place where we make things. Youngstown was the hub of steel production for decades, and I'm proud to support this industry." Currently, nickels are made of nickel and copper; pennies are made of copper and zinc. A majority of the copper, zinc and nickel used to make these coins is imported from Canada. The Cents and Sensibility Act and the STEEL Nickel Act would require the penny and nickel both be made of American steel moving forward, with the penny being dipped in copper. The appearance of the coins would not change, only the materials to make the coins. For the fiscal year ending September 30, 2010, minting a penny cost 1.79 cents and the cost to create a nickel was 9.22 cents. According to the House Financial Services Committee, simply changing the composition of both coins to steel will save the United States up to $274 million in penny production and $159 million in the production of nickels, for a total savings of up to $433 million over 10 years for American taxpayers. This legislation is endorsed by the American Iron and Steel Institute. Press Contact:Jerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
12.13.2011	Tuesday, December 13, 2011 WASHINGTON – In anticipation of today's vote on the House Republican bill to raise Medicare costs and reduce access to unemployment insurance, Congressman Ryan released the following statement: "In Youngstown, Akron, Warren, and across our country, millions of Americans continue to struggle to survive in an economy that has not yet rebounded from the biggest economic collapse since the Great Depression. But instead of working to help those simply struggling to survive, Republicans appear intent on making matters worse. Instead of asking the wealthiest Americans to pay their fair share, Republicans continue to promote an agenda that makes income inequality even greater. After delaying for months to extend the payroll tax cut and unemployment insurance, Republicans are now pushing a bill that would eliminate assistance for millions of unemployed workers, give less tax relief to working class families than the Democratic proposal, and require millions of seniors to pay more for their health care. This is not a surprise – we've spent the entire year voting on everything but any measure that would get Americans back on their feet again. People in Ohio and across the nation are waiting for Congress to take action to create jobs and stand up for the middle class. Instead of wasting time and money on bills that increase the burden on already-struggling working families, I urge the Republican leadership to focus on an agenda that helps all Americans, not just the wealthiest."
12.08.2011	Thursday, December 8, 2011 WASHINGTON – In response to Republicans blocking the confirmation of Richard Cordray to head the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Congressman Tim Ryan released the following the statement: “I am deeply disappointed that Republicans voted to block confirmation of Richard Cordray as the Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and prohibit the agency from beginning its important work. During the financial crisis of 2008, Americans witnessed firsthand the impact of predatory lending and other abuses against consumers. Following the greatest economic collapse since the Great Depression, the CFPB was created to protect consumers from similar future catastrophes. However, instead of allowing the CFPB to place consumer cops on the beat to protect against abuses in our financial markets, Republicans have sided with their allies on Wall Street and blocked the confirmation of a director for the agency. Every American that lost their home or job during the last recession needs to stand up and demand Republicans confirm a nominee, or we will continue to be vulnerable to another collapse.” Press Contact:Jerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
12.06.2011	WASHINGTON – In response to the Ohio Senate’s recent push to pass sweeping restrictions that radically limit women’s access to health care, Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement: “My entire career, I’ve worked to thoughtfully balance decisions that impact families, women, and children. Two years ago, Congress passed sweeping reforms that gave men, women and children greater access to health care. Today, the Ohio Senate is poised to abuse and distort those reforms in an effort to push a radical and ideological social agenda to deny women the most basic right to use their own resources to purchase the health care of their choice. This is unjust, unfair, and potentially unconstitutional in light of the recently passed Issue 3. The Ohio Senate has also insisted on pushing an abortion ban that is so expansive, even the Ohio Right to Life opposes it. The ‘Heartbeat’ bill is one more step in a radical direction that would prohibit women who are victims of rape or incest from making decisions about their own health care. This is wrong. Instead of focusing on job creation, Ohio’s legislators are again taking a path just as radical as Senate Bill 5 that promises to divide the state and invite costly litigation. These bills are not the work of people thoughtfully balancing their impact on families, women and children and I hope legislators in Columbus will reconsider this path.” Press Contact:Jerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
12.05.2011	Monday, December 5, 2012 WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement on the United States Postal Service: "The United States Postal Service is fighting to remain competitive in a changing market. However, the biggest roadblock to the Postal Service's success is the requirement it overfund its pension system. Postal cuts to services, facilities, or jobs are the wrong approach to fix the USPS. I co-sponsored legislation to fix the pension system so the Postal Service would not have to make these cuts, and I wish the rest of Congress would join me so we could save these jobs and maintain the quality of service people depend upon from their local post offices." Press Contact:Jerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
11.30.2011	Wednesday, November 30, 2011 YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO– Today, VAM USA, LLC announced a $57 million investment to develop a new, 200,000 square foot seamless pipe finishing mill in Youngstown, Ohio. This facility will be located in close proximity to the new, $650 million expansion of V&M Star's tubular manufacturing facility. In response to this announcement, Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement: "This is another incredible leap forward for the Mahoning Valley as new jobs and industries come to our home, continuing our economic renaissance. Today's announcement by VAM USA means 100 new jobs for families in and around Youngstown, as leaders from the oil and natural gas industry realize the immense potential here. Industry experts estimate we are on the verge of an energy boon, right here in Northeast Ohio, that could mean tens of thousands of jobs for our neighbors, friends, and families as we capitalize on the significance of the Utica and Marcellus Shale. I am hopeful that VAM's decision is just the beginning of the investment in the Valley and Ohio that we need to get people back to work." Press Contact:Jerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
11.29.2011	Tuesday, November 29, 2011 WASHINGTON – Recently, the State of Ohio announced the selection of KPMG for a federally subsidized state contract to study changes to the Ohio Turnpike including privatization. KPMG LLP, the US member firm of the Switzerland-based KPMG International, is part of a global network of professional firms providing audit, tax, and outsourcing services. In response to the announcement, several members of the Ohio Congressional Delegation expressed concern over the State’s potential plans for the Turnpike. “It’s alarming that the Ohio Department of Transportation continues to use federal funds to promote the privatization of the Ohio Turnpike.” Rep. Ryan said. “Efforts to privatize the Turnpike threaten the job security of more than 1,000 Ohioans and the quality of this asset owned by the people of Ohio. I am especially troubled by the Administration's choice of a company that specializes in outsourcing instead of spurring economic growth here at home. Instead of eliminating jobs, we should be focused on policies that create jobs." KPMG serves as a member of the International Association of Outsourcing Professionals (IAOP) and recently was honored with a 2011 selection as one of the “World’s Best Outsourcing Advisors.” In fact, KPMG has established a presence in over 150 countries, including 13 offices in China. The company’s expansive presence overseas positions them as a leader in outsourcing and government privatization efforts. KPMG’s selection to advise the State of Ohio regarding the future of the Turnpike raises serious questions regarding the State’s intended goals. “Ohioans should be very concerned that ODOT has put a leading job outsourcer in the driver's seat over the fate of the Ohio Turnpike,” Rep. Marcy Kaptur said. “In its mad dash to cash out the Ohio Turnpike, ODOT continues to ignore public bodies across northern Ohio who oppose this ‘get rich quick’ scheme that jeopardizes jobs and commerce in Ohio.” “Signs point to this study being little more than political cover for moving forward with a shortsighted, pound-foolish privatization scheme,” said Rep. Dennis Kucinich. “Once again, the State Administration is attacking workers under the guise of fiscal responsibility. The men and women who work on the Ohio Turnpike have competitive wages and benefits as the result of their efforts to organize. This privatization attempt is a malicious attack meant to break the backs of organized labor in Ohio.” While the State of Ohio has stated its intention to use this study to determine the best economic use of the Turnpike, the Administration has repeatedly praised the Indiana Turnpike lease. In 2006, Indiana leased the Indiana Turnpike to a foreign-held company. Since that lease, tolls on the Indiana Turnpike have nearly doubled. "Ohioans depend on the turnpike to maintain commerce and essential manufacturing and agriculture jobs,” Rep. Marcia Fudge noted. “They own it and should reap the benefits. As our economy begins to grow stronger, creating obstacles to economic growth is the wrong thing to do. We should stay focused on keeping the turnpike in the hands of the people of Ohio." “Our officials in Columbus should not be using our hard-earned tax dollars to hire foreign corporations that will put hundreds of Ohioans out of work and whittle away state assets,” Rep. Betty Sutton said. “We should be focusing on strengthening the middle-class and creating new jobs in our state, not finding new ways to squeeze working Ohioans while profiting big multi-national corporations.” KPMG has until July 1, 2012 to make recommendations to the State on privatization and other options. Press contact:Jerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
11.21.2011	Monday, November 21, 2011 WASHINGTON – In response to the failure of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to reach an agreement on the federal budget, Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement: “Millions of Americans are out of work and struggling to feed their families, keep their homes, and simply survive. But these difficulties have taken the back seat in Washington, where it seems Republicans’ number one focus is reducing the federal deficit. Today’s failure by the Super Committee is one more disappointment in a series of disappointments that began with the manufactured controversy over the debt ceiling. But the true failure in this entire process was Congress’ willingness to focus on the deficit, instead of doing everything we could to get America back to work. My Republican colleagues must realize that we cannot simply cut our way back to full employment and that we must return to the important task of getting people back to work. Until that happens families in Youngstown, Warren, Akron, and across this country will continue to struggle.” Press contactJerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
11.16.2011	Wednesday, November 16, 2011WASHINGTON – This afternoon, Congress bestowed the Congressional Gold Medal upon Senator John Glenn, Neil Armstrong, Edwin “Buzz” Adlrin, Jr., and Michael Collins. In response, Representative Tim Ryan released the following statement:“Today’s award of the Congressional Gold Medal to some of our country’s first Astronauts is a tribute to not just these individuals, but also to the enduring spirit of American creativity and innovation. In 1962, Senator John Glenn led our nation as the first American to orbit the Earth. Seven years later, Michael Collins flew Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin to the moon for man’s first lunar steps. These four brave men boldly risked life and limb to push the boundaries of mankind. They are true American heroes and unquestionably deserving of the Congressional Gold Medal, our Legislature’s highest honor.This award also serves as a special point of pride to the people of Ohio. John Glenn of New Concord, and Neil Armstrong of Wapakoneta, are among Ohio’s most accomplished native sons. Armstrong and Glenn’s legacies give inspiration to millions of Ohioans that the improbable is not impossible and that with hard work and determination, even a young man or woman from Ohio can accomplish their dreams.” Jerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
11.03.2011	Thursday, November 3, 2011 WASHINGTON – In response to the release of recent Census data illustrating the extreme level of poverty in the Youngstown region, Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement: "The extreme level of poverty in the Youngstown region continues to be a deeply disturbing symptom of a much larger economic problem facing not just our region, but also Ohio and the nation. Income inequality and the divide between the wealthy and the working class continues to grow at an unacceptable rate. It is disgusting that this level of poverty occurs in a country with a 14.7 Trillion dollar economy. "While we are bringing industry and jobs to the region through projects like the Youngstown Small Business Incubator, GM's investment in the Chevy Cruze, and the development of V&M Starr's $650 million plant to capitalize on the Utica Shale, there is still much more we must do. Unfortunately, Republicans in Washington continue to attack the very investments our country needs to reduce poverty, create jobs, and return our region to prosperity. "We have a broken economic system that gives out big rewards for financial shenanigans and ignores the value of manufacturing. We have a broken tax and trade policy that gives huge benefits to the politically connected and major campaign donors while the middle class continues its economic free fall. These same people scream the loudest that the government is doing too much when we try to make college more affordable or reinvest back into our crumbling roads and bridges or rebuild our communities or try to put more police on the beat. If we want America to succeed it can't be the 99% versus the 1%. It must be all of us, 100% of us, recognizing our own responsibilities and trying to make our country a better place. "
10.25.2011	Tuesday, October 25, 2011 WASHINGTON – Congressman Tim Ryan today made the following statement on the House Floor in support of awarding the Congressional Gold Medal to the Montford Marines: "...I want to be in support of not only this resolution but [also] the eventual awarding of the Congressional Gold medal to the Montford Point Marines. I think this is a great example of how we in America, sometimes, it takes us too long, but we try to rectify these problems and I hope that this is an opportunity for us to recognize discrimination when it is happening, anywhere else in the military or across our country. We shouldn't have to wait to honor these marines, 70 years later, because of their commitment that they made. They were dedicated to this country. They fought racism, they fought segregation, and they fought humiliation, all to try to serve this great country. I think they really embodied what the marines stand for, the honor, the courage, the commitment, that is exactly what it takes to be a marine. So let us learn this lesson and also honor these gentlemen today." Camp Montford Point was the training ground for nearly 20,000 recruits after President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed executive Order 8802, opening the US Marine Corps to African Americans. A video of Congressman Ryan's comments honoring the Montford Marines is available here. Press ContactJerid Kurtz, (202) 738-7653Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
10.13.2011	Thursday, October 13, 2011 WASHINGTON – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement in response to a recent letter from Ohio Congressional Republicans urging the US Department of Transportation to restore federal funding to study privatizing the Ohio Turnpike: "It's no secret the Governor is seriously considering a radical plan to privatize the Ohio Turnpike. It was wrong of the State of Ohio to fail to disclose it's intention to use these federal funds for a privatization scheme that could threaten the security of over 1,000 jobs. If the Ohio Department of Transportation is upset at the loss of these funds, they have no one to blame other than themselves for failing to play by the rules. This decision is now in the hands of the US Department of Transportation, and they have allowed the State to reapply with a proposal that actually meets federal guidelines. "It's not an innovative idea to sell the Ohio turnpike. It was an innovative idea when Indiana tried it, now it's proven to be reckless and dumb." BACKGROUND: Recently, Reps. Tim Ryan, Marcy Kaptur, Dennis Kucinich, Marcia Fudge, and Betty Sutton, sent a letter to the US Department of Transportation questioning the State of Ohio's use of federal funds for a study to privatize the Ohio Turnpike. On October 7, the US Department of Transportation revoked those federal funds after finding the State of Ohio had planned to use the funds for an unapproved purpose. Contact:Jerid Kurtz, (202) 738-7653Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
10.12.2011	Wednesday, October 12, 2011 WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives about the Columbia, Panama, and South Korea Free Trade Agreements: "As these trade agreements are debated, we hear a lot of promises and predictions. These are the same promises that we heard during NAFTA and the most favored nation trade status debate with China. We hear a lot of statistics, but we don't need statistics. We need jobs. These trade issues are side shows; the number one issue facing this Congress is whether or not we are going to deal with China and their currency manipulation. Fixing this imbalance will create at least 1 million jobs. This bill came to the floor last year, and we had 99 Republicans vote for it – it passed with 350 votes. It just passed the Senate. Now we need to bring that bill to the floor of the House and pass it. We know what to do on the China currency bill - we just need the courage to do it." Watch Rep. Ryan talking about free trade agreements on the House floor: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2bgR-74wGtU
10.11.2011	Tuesday, October 11, 2011 WASHINGTON – Rep. Tim Ryan called on the House Republican Leadership to bring his China Currency Reform bill to the floor after the Senate passed legislation by a bipartisan vote of 63 to 35. The legislation would help to create at least one million manufacturing jobs here at home, strengthen small businesses, and boost our nation's competitiveness by demanding that China start playing fair on the global stage. Over the last nine months, the House Republican Leadership has refused to bring the bipartisan China Currency bill to the House Floor for a vote – where it would clearly pass. "It's time for Speaker Boehner to stop delaying and to bring a vote on the China Currency Reform Bill immediately," Rep. Ryan said. "Over 100,000 jobs in Ohio have been displaced due to our trade deficit with China. The Senate has taken bipartisan action to create good-paying jobs right here in Ohio, now it's time for the House to follow suit. I am calling on the House Republican leadership to get to work creating jobs here at home and bring my bill to a vote now." The Chinese government continues to intervene in the markets to suppress the value of its currency – making American exports more expensive and Chinese products cheaper. This gives Chinese companies an unfair advantage over U.S. small manufacturers and other exporters across our country. The bipartisan Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act (H.R. 639) was introduced by Reps. Tim Ryan (D-OH), Sander Levin (D-MI), and Tim Murphy (R-PA) in the House back in February and has 225 cosponsors, including 61 Republicans. Last year, the Democratic-led House passed this legislation by a strong bipartisan vote of 348 to 79. The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act (H.R. 639) will help American businesses compete on a more level playing field by treating fundamentally undervalued currencies as a prohibited subsidy, allowing the U.S. to take action to counter this unfair trade practice. This bill is essential to addressing currency manipulation by the Chinese government that has jeopardized efforts to create and preserve U.S. manufacturing jobs. Press Contact Jerid Kurtz, (202) 738-7653 Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
10.07.2011	Friday, October 7, 2011 WASHINGTON – This morning, the U.S. Department of Transportation held a conference call with participants from the offices of Reps. Tim Ryan, Marcy Kaptur, Dennis Kucinich, Marcia Fudge, Betty Sutton, and Senator Sherrod Brown. During the call, the U.S. Department of Transportation notified the Representatives' offices that in response to their recent letter, the Department revoked federal funds dedicated to the Ohio Turnpike privatization scheme. In response, Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement: "I am absolutely opposed to the State of Ohio's misguided attempt to misuse these federal funds for its radical plan to privatize the Ohio Turnpike. It's disappointing that during this rush to privatize the Turnpike, the State attempted to misuse these federal funds for a plan that could potentially cost drivers through significantly increased tolls, threaten the job security of over 1,000 Ohioans, and drive up costs for local governments through increased maintenance costs for local roads. Federal money should be used to create jobs, not eliminate them. The Ohio Turnpike is a high quality road in good financial health, has bipartisan support to remain in its current form, and serves as a vital business asset to ship goods all across this country. Any efforts to sell the Ohio Turnpike are misguided, and I plan to continue to fight to protect the Turnpike in the future. I thank the Department of Transportation for their timely response to our letter. " Press ContactJerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
10.06.2011	Thursday, October 6, 2011 WASHINGTON – In response to the Senate Banking Committee's approval of Richard Cordray's nomination to lead the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement: "Richard Cordray is a superb lawyer and deserves an up or down vote on his nomination to head Washington's Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. I hope my Republican colleagues in the Senate back down from their threats to prevent a vote on any nominee, and instead let Rich get to work protecting America's consumers. "Just a few years after the greatest economic collapse our generation has ever witnessed, Republicans continue to block the reforms we put in place to protect American consumers from future financial disaster. As our country's leaders continue to turn their backs on working people, it's no wonder why workers in New York and across this country are demanding action. We have already delayed too long in allowing the CFPB to get started protecting the American people – I hope the Senate will allow an up or down vote on Richard Cordray's nomination soon." Press ContactJerid Kurtz, (202) 738-7653Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
10.06.2011	Thursday, October 6, 2011 WASHINGTON – In support of the demonstrations occurring in New York City and across the country, today Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement: "It was only a matter of time before the American people realized what gave rise to the highest level of income inequality since the Great Depression: a runaway economic system devoid of compassion or patriotism and a political system that would rather fight ideological battles than pragmatically fix the problem. "The demonstrations we see are a direct expression of the frustration of 30 years of stagnant wages for the middle class and diminished opportunity for our youth while the people who shipped our jobs overseas or closed our factories received exorbitant bonuses. These rallies should be no surprise to anyone. World history is full of examples where economic repression led to social discontent. I support the peaceful protests that are happening, and hope that they serve as a wake-up call to Congress. Thousands of people from all walks of life have come together at these rallies to say that we need to get on our country back on track. We should be able to get 500 members of Congress to do the same. The economic problems we're facing transcend ideology, and demand action immediately on policies that will help restore a vibrant middle class, not a perpetual race to the bottom. It's time to bring fairness back to the system and get people back to work." Press Contact Jerid Kurtz, (202) 738-7653 Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
10.04.2011	Tuesday, October 4, 2011 WASHINGTON – Today, Reps. Tim Ryan, Marcy Kaptur, Dennis Kucinich, Marcia Fudge, and Betty Sutton, contacted U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood to question the State of Ohio's use of federal tax payer dollars in an effort to explore privatizing the Ohio Turnpike. The State of Ohio previously announced plans to meet with project management firms in November to discuss options for privatizing the Turnpike. On a call on Monday, October 3, a representative for the Ohio Department of Transportation confirmed that the State of Ohio was utilizing federal funds from the State Planning and Research Program to fund a contractor advising the State on turnpike financing. Costs for Turnpike construction and maintenance have not previously come from federal funds. Members of Ohio's Congressional Delegation contacted Sec. LaHood to express their concern about the use of these taxpayer dollars for any purpose that involved a privatization scheme that could potentially severely cost drivers via increased tolls, threaten the job security of over 1,000 Ohioans, and drive up costs for local governments through increased maintenance costs of local roads. Whether this action falls within the technical guidelines of the State Planning and Research Program, using federal funds to help privatize a public asset in this manner is not within the spirit of the law. Previous efforts to privatize publicly owned turnpikes have resulted in dramatically higher tolls for the public. In 2006, the Indiana Turnpike was sold to a foreign held company for a 75 year lease. Since then, tolls for some motorists on the Indiana Turnpike have increased by over 150%. The full text of the letter is as follows: October 4, 2011 Secretary Ray LaHoodDepartment of Transportation1200 New Jersey Avenue, SEWashington, DC 20590 Dear Secretary LaHood: We are writing you today with our concerns over the use of federal funds by the current Ohio Governor's administration. It is our hope that the appropriate agency within your department can clarify the use of this money, and if the actions are against DOT guidelines, take the proper action to recoup these taxpayer funds. Recently it has come to our attention that throughout the process of moving towards privatizing the Ohio Turnpike, the Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) has been using federal funds towards this purpose. This information was released to the public through an August 19th, 2011 ODOT document entitled "Ohio Turnpike Public-Private Initiative, Questions and Answers" (attached). It is our understanding that the portion of federal funds being used is through the State Planning and Research (SP&R) Program to fund a contractor advising the State on turnpike financing issues. While the SP&R Program's guidelines are laid out in a way that should get the full value from these investment dollars, we have serious concerns that using federal funds to progress plans to sell off a state asset is far from the intended spirit of the program. As numerous recent reports and articles have documented, we have a serious infrastructure deficit in this country. The SP&R Program is exactly the kind of forward-thinking program we need to evaluate deficiencies in our infrastructure and find best practices solutions to rebuild America. However, using these funds to advance a privatization plan that could potentially severely cost drivers via increased tolls, threaten the job security of over 1,000 Ohioans, and drive up costs for local governments through increased maintenance costs of local roads, is a questionable use of federal taxpayer dollars and exposes a loophole in the program guidelines. While we may not all agree on the State's actions towards privatization of the Ohio Turnpike, federal taxpayer funds should not be serving to facilitate a particular policy initiative to privatize a public asset. Should the US Department of Transportation and the appropriate administrators find that the State of Ohio's use of these funds is in fact within the guidelines of the State Planning and Research Program, it is my hope we can work together to narrow the guidelines so use of these funds falls more in line with the mission of the Federal Highway Administration. Thank you for looking into this matter and we look forward to your response. Sincerely, Representative Tim RyanRepresentative Marcy KapturRepresentative Dennis KucinichRepresentative Marcia FudgeRepresentative Betty Sutton Press ContactJerid Kurtz, (202) 738-7653Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
09.28.2011	Wednesday, September 28, 2011 YOUNGSTOWN – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement today in response to the announcement that Republicans on the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations have launched an investigation into Planned Parenthood and their affiliates, demanding years of records, including state audits for the past 20 years. As a public provider of health care, Planned Parenthood and their affiliates submit to regular oversight and audits by the Department of Health and Human Services and state Medicaid programs: "House Republicans are once again ignoring their duty to help get America back to work to instead focus on their favorite petty, ideological attacks against Planned Parenthood and women's health care," Ryan said. "Planned Parenthood is a trusted health care provider for more than 5 million people every year, many of whom would otherwise not receive vital services like pre-natal care, well woman exams and cancer screenings. In Ohio alone, these attacks on Planned Parenthood could impact the delivery of critical health care services to nearly 100,000 people, most of them low-income. "These attacks come at a time when the poverty rate among women is the highest in nearly two decades, and 1 in 5 women under 65 don't have access to health care. Women are facing a poverty epidemic, and instead of sounding the alarm, House Republicans are trying to make it even more difficult for them to receive the essential health care they need. House Republicans must realize that right now, the American people are demanding we end these sort of distractions and get back to the important task of fixing our economy and putting America back to work." Press ContactJerid Kurtz, (202) 738-7653Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
09.23.2011	Friday, September 23, 2011 WASHINGTON – In response to the House Republican slash to the Advanced Technology Manufacturing Vehicle Program, Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement: "Last night, House Republicans continued their attack on proven job-creating programs by slashing a fund critical to the long-term outlook of America's auto industry. Catering to the extremes of their own tea party members, Republicans cut $1.5 billion from an initiative that puts people to work producing the clean cars of tomorrow. In Ohio – especially at Lordstown – we understand how critical the auto industry is to our future economic security. This is the third time this year House Republicans have sent our country careening toward the sort of economic uncertainty that threatens our recovery. We are repeating the mistakes of history and this must stop now. It's time for Congressional Republicans – as the party in charge of the House of Representatives – to stop playing chicken with the American economy and instead work with Democrats to create jobs." The Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program provides manufacturers direct loans for up to 30% of the cost of re-equipping, expanding, or establishing manufacturing facilities in the U.S. to produce qualified advanced technology vehicles or components. ATVs, or clean cars, are light duty or ultra-efficient vehicles that meet federal emission and fuel economy standards. Reports have indicated that cutting funding for the ATVM Loan Program could harm 18 pending loan applications and cost up to 43,500 jobs, including 10,000 new ones. Press Contact Jerid Kurtz, (202) 738-7653 Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
09.20.2011	Monday, September 19, 2011 ROOTSTOWN - Today, Representative Tim Ryan attended the Northeast Ohio Economic Summit on the Revitalization of Manufacturing. The summit, sponsored by the Coalition for a Prosperous America, was co-chaired by Rep. Tim Ryan and Rep. Bill Johnson. Brian Tucker of Crains Cleveland Business served as a moderator. Local businessmen, leaders, and heads of associations were invited to take part in the summit to provide ideas and otherwise participate in order to build upon the Mahoning Valley's economic successes. "For too long, America's manufacturing base has been under assault by policies that ship our jobs overseas," said Ryan. "For example, China's currency manipulation and unfair trade policies have destroyed millions of good-paying American jobs. As we look to the future of manufacturing, we must level the playing field. Right here in the Mahoning Valley, we've seen tremendous success and the creation of new businesses, but there's more we can do. If America is to be successful in the future, now is the time for us to make real investments in education, infrastructure and the other areas that will help support the high-end, advanced manufacturing jobs of tomorrow.' The Coalition for a Prosperous America hosted the event with the support of national, state, and local groups, including: the Youngstown Warren Regional Chamber of Commerce, Republic Engineered Products, the Tooling Manufacturing and Technologies Association, and the Copper and Brass Fabricators Council. The Coalition for a Prosperous America is a nonprofit organization representing the interests of 2.7 million households through our agricultural, manufacturing and labor members. "U.S. trade policy has caused a large portion of Ohio's economic crisis by off-shoring Ohio's manufacturing," said Michael Stumo, CEO of CPA. "Family members with good paying jobs have been laid off. Communities with strong revenue bases and property values have now lost population. More unity among local government, business and community leaders is needed to achieve the proper strategy for economic recovery." In Congress, Ryan has served as a strong voice for America's manufacturing sector. Ryan serves as the co-chair of the House Manufacturing Caucus. Recently, Ryan introduced the Mechanical Insulation Installation Incentive Act of 2011. Mechanical insulation is the insulation placed around mechanical equipment, such as large boilers, heating and air conditioning units, duct work, and hot and cold water piping, to prevent energy loss, control condensation, regulate temperature, help reduce pollutants, and protect employees from hot or cold surfaces. This bipartisan, bicameral legislation would cut energy costs, reduce carbon emissions, and put Americans back to work through a tax incentive encouraging the use of mechanical insulation.
09.20.2011	Tuesday, September 20, 2011 WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement on the demise of the "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" policy: "Today begins a new era of equality in America. The end of the 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' policy represents a great step forward in our efforts to respect the rights and freedoms our military defends every day. Now, the men and women of the United States Armed Forces can enjoy those freedoms as well, without fear of reprisal or punishment. Our Armed Forces represent so many good things about America – discipline, loyalty, intelligence - today we can add fairness to that list. Service members are our brothers, our sisters, our nieces, our nephews who want to serve their country, and they should be allowed to do so without fear or shame. I've stood with the LGBT community on this issue for years, and I am proud that today we can say we've reached a long overdue milestone in treating them with equality and dignity in the military."
08.17.2011	Wednesday, August 17, 2011 WASHINGTON – Today, Representatives Tim Ryan and Betty Sutton announced the award of a Federal Highway Administration grant of $1,947,393 for Cuyahoga Valley National Park. This grant will go towards the “Cuyahoga Valley National Park Safety and Accessibility Improvement Project.” The Summit County Engineer’s office originally applied for this grant from the Public Lands Highway Discretionary Program (PHLD). “This grant will help us increase the safety and accessibility of Ohio’s only National Park while making a critical investment in infrastructure,” said Representative Ryan. “This project to improve the quality of Cuyahoga Valley National Park also supports our goal of creating jobs right here at home. I’m glad that we could partner with the Summit County Engineer’s office to accelerate this project, get people back to work, and protect this national treasure.” “This funding will not only put Ohioans back to work, it will provide more accessible, safer roads throughout our National Park,” said Representative Sutton. “I am proud to support this important investment, and look forward to sharing the results of this project with my constituents for years to come.” The PHLD program provides funding for transportation planning, research, and engineering construction of highways, roads, parkways, and transit facilities that are within or adjacent to national parks. A spokesman for the Summit County Engineer’s Office noted that this project is a great example of county and federal agencies working together to accelerate needed improvements for a Northeast Ohio treasure. Located partially within and around the greater Akron and Cleveland areas, CVNP is consistently one of the top ten visited national parks. The park is dedicated to maintaining this standing within the national park system. Press ContactJerid Kurtz, (202) 738-7653 Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
08.11.2011	Thursday, August 11, 2011 "Right here in Ohio, manufacturers like Goodyear Tire & Rubber are helping to develop the next generation of energy efficient products," said Rep. Ryan. "Federal investment in these projects makes sense because they create jobs, reduce our consumption of foreign oil, and help create a better environment for our children. This funding also helps fuel the innovation that is driving Northeast Ohio's economic renaissance and propelled Akron into the top 10 cities for employment opportunities." The Department of Energy award is intended for Goodyear to develop and demonstrate an in-tire system for automatically maintaining a set pressure in a commercial truck tire. The grant will be administered by the National Energy Technology Laboratory and work will be conducted at Goodyear's Innovation Center in Akron. This investment is part of an effort to raise fuel efficiency standards to 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025 for cars and light trucks. Initial estimates indicate American families could save up to $1.7 trillion at the pump under these new standards. Studies show that in passenger or commercial trucks, underinflated tires result in between a 2.5 percent and 3.3 percent decrease in fuel mileage. At current fuel prices, the cost of this decreased fuel efficiency is approximately 12 cents per gallon. Press ContactJerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261 Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
08.11.2011	Thursday, August 11, 2011 WASHINGTON – Today, Representative Tim Ryan announced the federal award of $462,900 for Youngstown State University's Center for Transportation and Materials Engineering. This award was made possible through a grant by the U.S. Department of Transportation. The grant will continue to fund YSU's applied research and applications in advanced manufacturing of materials to increase the longevity, mobility, and sustainability of our nation's transportation infrastructure. "Youngstown State University continues to be a major asset for our Valley, and the nation, pioneering the research of high-tech, advanced manufacturing in transportation," said Rep. Ryan. "Right here in Youngstown, we're leading the way, developing new vehicle components, sensors to monitor the structural integrity of bridges, and ideas for our nation's transportation infrastructure of tomorrow. With Youngstown State University, the Tech Belt Energy Innovation Center, and the Youngstown Small Business Incubator, we're demonstrating the wealth of innovation taking place in our region." Through Youngstown State University's Center for Transportation and Materials Engineering, researchers are developing light-weight vehicle braking systems to improve fuel efficiency, vehicle performance, longevity and safety. The center is also funding research into intelligent vehicle transportation systems to minimize susceptibility to electromagnetic signal interference and ensure proper communication between vehicles and intelligent transportation systems. These programs will improve safety of the transportation system overall. Funding for these programs is critical to achieving sustainable 21st century solutions to the transportation infrastructure of Ohio and the U.S. Press ContactJerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261 Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
08.05.2011	Friday, August 5, 2011 WASHINGTON – Today, Representative Tim Ryan applauded the Small Business Administration's (SBA) loan of $1 million to the Mahoning Valley Economic Development Corporation (MVEDC) for small business development. "This loan will better allow the Mahoning Valley Economic Development Center to foster the growth of new, emerging small businesses," said Rep. Ryan. "I'm proud that the SBA has recognized MVEDC's success, and the potential for small business expansion in the Mahoning Valley. Groups like the Mahoning Valley Economic Development Center, the Youngstown Small Business Incubator, and the proposed Tech Belt Energy Innovation Center are helping to continue our Valley's strength in economic development, building new industry, and creating jobs." The SBA loan is made possible through the Small Business Jobs Act which created the Intermediary Lending Pilot (ILP) program. This funding is provided through the ILP program for MVEDC to make loans to local small businesses of up to $200,000 for working capital or inventory, real estate, or equipment. The MVEDC has been a leader in providing economic assistance to area businesses in Northeast Ohio and Western Pennsylvania for over 30 years. MVEDC's mission is to promote and support the revitalization of the area's economic base, while focusing on the creation and retention of jobs. MVEDC offers financial assistance, services and resources to start up businesses as well as those who wish to expand and companies whose principals struggle to receive private financing.
08.02.2011	Monday, August 1, 2011 Austerity Measures in Deal will have Negative Impact on America's Long-Term Future Today, Representative Tim Ryan voted against the "Budget Control Act of 2011" that demanded deep cuts to our nation's infrastructure, domestic, and defense programs for the next ten years. Following the vote, Congressman Ryan released the following statement: "Republicans have finally released their hostage, allowing a vote to raise our country's debt-ceiling. Unfortunately, the harm these deep cuts will cause to our economy will hang over our nation for years to come. "Tonight's vote was a test of our political conviction. Republicans demanded we either make deep, painful cuts to working families, or they would force a default on the full faith and credit of the U.S. debt. Either option would deal a devastating blow to millions of Americans struggling to regain their financial security following one of the worst recessions our country has faced in a generation. "I am deeply disappointed this deal was brokered purely under the tea-party led threat of default, and I refuse to endorse these cuts, or the manner in which the American economy was threatened in order to achieve them. This plan kicks the can down the road while virtually guaranteeing that the middle class will get hit again. "If Republicans were truly interested in lowering the deficit, they would have instead focused their efforts over the past few months on creating jobs and strengthening America's place as a world leader. Instead, they kept jobs off the agenda in favor of protecting tax cuts for billionaires and millionaires. "I will not go back to my constituents and tell them with a straight face that this deal is good for them. They've been forced to sacrifice too much already; this deal asks them to do it again and at an even higher price." Press ContactJerid Kurtz, (202) 738-7653 Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
07.29.2011	Friday, July 29, 2011 WASHINGTON – Tonight, Congressman Ryan joined his colleagues in voting against the "Boehner Short Term Default Act" and urging House Republicans to come to a bipartisan compromise to raise the debt-ceiling. Following the vote, Congressman Ryan issued the following statement: "Rep. Boehner's Debt Limit Default Plan is not only a failure in its efforts to raise the U.S. debt limit—it represents an unconscionable waste of Congress' time when Republicans should be joining with Democrats to put people back to work," said Congressman Ryan. "Instead, after wasting weeks discussing plans that were never going to become law, we are up against a wall and face a terrible self-inflicted default. "The Republicans have forced through a bill that is certain to fail in the Senate and fails the American people. My constituents are looking to Congress to make responsible decisions on a long-term plan to get our country back on track and get people back to work. Instead, we've lost precious time debating bills that hurt the people who most need help right now, so that politicians in Washington could score cheap political points. The American people deserve better from Republican leaders."
07.29.2011	Friday, July 29, 2011 WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Tim Ryan announced that July 30th marks the 46th anniversary of enactment of the Medicare program. On July 30, 1965, President Lyndon Johnson signed Medicare into law in Independence, Missouri and enrolled former President Harry Truman and his wife Bess as the first participants in the program. "The creation of Medicare is one of our greatest achievements and helped lift millions of seniors out of poverty," stated Rep. Ryan. "House Democrats fought long and hard to pass the original Medicare program, and it's still under attack today. We must continue to honor Medicare's guarantee that our seniors' health needs will be taken care of during their golden years." In 1964, just 51 percent of Americans over 65 had health care coverage –today, because of Medicare, coverage is practically universal. Medicare has also significantly reduced poverty among those in their golden years. Nearly 30 percent of seniors lived below the poverty line in 1964 – and today that number has dropped to 7.5 percent. Medicare has also contributed to the life expectancy of Americans increasing significantly. Today, Medicare provides comprehensive health care coverage to 47 million Americans, including 39 million seniors and 8 million people under 65 with disabilities. Medicare is also enormously popular with seniors and people with disabilities – with Medicare beneficiaries more satisfied with their coverage than Americans with private insurance. Medicare provides a guaranteed set of benefits and affordable premiums. "This is a successful program – but Republicans, as shown by their most recently passed budget, are absolutely committed to dismantling it," said Rep. Ryan. From 1952 to 1965, Democrats introduced bills every year proposing the Medicare program. However these efforts were largely blocked by Republicans. It was not until 1965, with the support of just 51% of House Republicans, that a bill to create Medicare was sent to President Johnson. In the 1990's, President Clinton vetoed an attack by House Republicans to cut $270 billion from the Medicare program to pay for $245 billion in tax cuts for the wealthy. On April 15, 2011, House Republicans voted to end Medicare as we know it and replace it with a voucher system that forces seniors to purchase private insurance. Under their plan, Republicans end the guaranteed benefit for those under 55, end the fix to the prescription drug benefit program, and force people to pay an extra $6,000 out-of-pocket per year for Medicare. These changes destroy Medicare as we know it. "On this 46th anniversary of the Medicare bill signing, I remain 100% committed against the Republican view that the program must be scrapped and replaced with a new system that dramatically increases out-of-pocket costs for seniors," said Rep. Ryan. "Democrats will continue to work to strengthen Medicare's solvency and ensure that Medicare – the promise we have made to our seniors – will be there for future generations." Press ContactJerid Kurtz, (202) 738-7653 Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
07.21.2011	Thursday, July 21, 2011 WASHINGTON – Today, on the one-year anniversary of Wall Street Reform, Republicans are holding votes on a measure to gut consumer protections put in place to protect against another "Great Recession." Millions of Americans lost their homes, jobs, savings, and economic security because of the recklessness of Wall Street and other financial institutions. Instead of embracing efforts to avoid another economic collapse, House Republicans have done everything they can to defund, delay, and destroy implementation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, one of the cornerstones of Wall Street Reform. Less than a week ago, President Obama nominated former Ohio Attorney General Richard Cordray to serve as the Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). Today's measure to alter Wall Street reforms would slash his position from the CFPB. "The Republicans are hell-bent on deregulating Wall Street and returning it to the Wild West style of banking that led to the complete collapse of our economy," said Congressman Ryan. "We are still dealing with the fallout of their recklessness. As Democrats attempt to put more cops on the financial market beat, the Republicans are content with burying their heads in the sand and hoping the modern day robber barons will behave themselves. None of the criminals that caused the collapse went to prison. And now, these measures to defund, delay, and destroy implementation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau would undermine oversight for mortgages, credit cards, student loans and other financial transactions. As we recover from the worst recession since the Great Depression, House Republicans have once again demonstrated how out of touch they are by attacking the very safeguards put in place to protect against an economic collapse in the future. They might be comfortable leaving their constituents without these essential measures, but the people of my district and across Ohio have suffered enough. They deserve some peace of mind as they try to recover from the financial hardships they've faced." Press ContactJerid Kurtz, (202) 738-7653 Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
07.17.2011	Sunday, July 17, 2011 WASHINGTON – In response to news of President Obama’s selection of Richard Cordray to head the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement: “Former Ohio Attorney General Richard Cordray is a tireless advocate of justice and will serve our nation well as the first Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,” said Congressman Ryan. “Rich proved his skill at shaping new agencies into successful offices in 1993 when he was tapped as Ohio’s first Solicitor General. I’m certain Rich will act with the same fairness and transparency he displayed in Ohio as he takes on the awesome responsibility of safeguarding American consumers.” Press ContactJerid Kurtz, (202) 738-7653 Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
06.21.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan introduced legislation to encourage Brazil to comply with the U.S.-Brazil extradition treaty both countries signed in 1961. This legislation is in direct response to Brazil's refusal to extradite Claudia Hoerig to face trail for the March 12, 2007 murder of her husband, Karl Hoerig. The U.S. and Brazil entered into a treaty in 1961 that provided for the extradition of any persons accused or convicted of a crime carrying a jail sentence of one year or more. In 1988, Brazil subsequently amended its constitution in violation of the treaty to prohibit the extradition of Brazilian citizens. Congressman Ryan's legislation eliminates approximately $14 million in annual U.S. assistance to Brazil until the country amends its constitution to comply with the extradition treaty. Congressman Ryan will also introduce legislation that would prevent the immigration of any Brazilian nationals to the U.S. until they are in compliance with the treaty. "It is shameful that Claudia Hoerig has managed to remain on the run from justice for over four years after killing her husband in cold blood," said Congressman Tim Ryan. "It's not as if we don't know where Hoerig is hiding – immediately after she killed her husband she fled to her home country of Brazil. But due to Brazil's constitution, Brazil will not comply with its own extradition treaty with America and return Hoerig for trial. "This legislation ensures that we do not award Brazil another dime in foreign aid while it continues to ignore its extradition treaty with the U.S. I'm also drafting legislation that bans all immigration from Brazil until it complies with its extradition treaty so that we never experience another miscarriage of justice like this again. "Brazil should not be rewarded when they fail to honor their promises to America. My proposal is meant to honor the memory of Karl Hoerig and see that justice is finally done." Since Karl Hoerig's 2007 murder, Congressman Ryan has diligently sought the assistance of both the U.S. and Brazilian governments in the extradition of Claudia Hoerig for trial. The Congressman's correspondence, along with a copy of the bill, can be viewed here: https://1.usa.gov/iJUgw2 Press ContactJerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261 Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
06.16.2011	Thursday, June 16, 2011 WASHINGTON – Today, the House will vote on H.R. 2112, the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. The bill proposes draconian cuts to the Women, Infants and Children program (WIC) and the Commodity Supplemental Food Program. In response to these proposed cuts, Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement. "These cuts harm women, children, and seniors," said Ryan. "While we need to start deficit reduction and makes cuts across the board, efforts like this to disproportionately balance the budget on the backs of the poor are wrong. The Republicans in Congress raised our national debt through the roof with two wars while giving tax breaks to Warren Buffet and Bill Gates. Now the bill is due and House Republicans are doing everything they can to avoid responsibility, including trying to end the Medicare program as we know it so they can give increased tax breaks for the wealthiest individuals and most profitable oil companies. With any deficit reduction measures, there must be shared sacrifice. This bill makes deep cuts and drops funding below 2008 levels for programs that help provide food to poor women, infants, and seniors. Americans are still struggling to find work – until they do, we must do everything we can to create jobs and help people keep food on their tables." H.R. 2112 appropriates $17.25 billion for the Agriculture Department and related agencies and programs. This funding level is 23% below President Obama's request for fiscal year 2012, 14% below the current level for 2011, and is even below 2008 levels. This bill also slashes 21% from the Commodity Supplemental Food Program which provides food assistance to low-income seniors. Additionally, the bill includes dramatic cuts to the WIC program which provides healthcare and food assistance to predominantly low-income pregnant women and infants under the age of 5.
06.14.2011	Monday, June 14, 2011 WASHINGTON - Congressman Tim Ryan today voted to provide a $20 million increase in funding to prevent veteran suicides, a significant problem for our veterans returning from service in Iraq and Afghanistan. Congressman Ryan also voted to secure funding for our Armed Forces through the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Act for FY2012, a bill that provides $72.5 billion in funding to provide resources for our troops and their families. Congressman Ryan also voted to support an amendment that protects project labor agreements (PLA's) in government contracting. "The fact that eighteen veterans commit suicide a day, after risking everything in service to this great nation, is unconscionable," said Ryan. "We had an opportunity here today to provide increased mental health support for our military men and women and we dropped the ball. We are leaving our heroes behind on this issue. High numbers of military suicides are one of the tragic legacies of our involvements in Iraq and Afghanistan. We are obligated to provide support for the growing numbers of post-traumatic stress disorders—some of which have led to these suicides. We must do better." Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Act provides benefits and medical care for our veterans, and provides the needed facilities and infrastructure for training and equipping our men and women who serve in the military. It also provides housing and base infrastructure for military families. The bill also funds the American Battle Monuments Commission, Cemetary Expenses, including funding for Arlington National Cemetery and other national cemeteries around the country, the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims, and the Armed Forces Retirement Home. Press ContactJerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261 Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
06.13.2011	Monday, June 13, 2011 WASHINGTON –After today's announcement that the Mahoning County YouthBuild program will discontinue operations in the Fall, Congressman Tim Ryan issued following statement. "The Mahoning County YouthBuild program provided valuable resources for job training, retention, and development," said Ryan. "Unfortunately, Republicans devastated this program's funding in the budget compromise that I voted against this past Spring. I've supported YouthBuild in the past because of the employment opportunities it provides to individuals that are in most need of resources and support. I'm deeply disappointed to lose this important job program at a time when we need it the most." YouthBuild is a national non-profit organization that provides education and job skills to unemployed young Americans. In the Continuing Resolution budget compromise approved by Congress this past Spring, YouthBuild's funding was devastated. Without further action, the Mahoning Valley program, along with approximately 120 other YouthBuild programs nationwide, will discontinue operations in the coming months. Press ContactJerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261 Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} WASHINGTON –After today’s announcement that the Mahoning County YouthBuild program will discontinue operations in the Fall, Congressman Tim Ryan issued following statement. “The Mahoning County YouthBuild program provided valuable resources for job training, retention, and development," said Ryan. "Unfortunately, Republicans devastated this program’s funding in the budget compromise that I voted against this past Spring. I’ve supported YouthBuild in the past because of the employment opportunities it provides to individuals that are in most need of resources and support. I’m deeply disappointed to lose this important job program at a time when we need it the most.” YouthBuild is a national non-profit organization that provides education and job skills to unemployed young Americans. In the Continuing Resolution budget compromise approved by Congress this past Spring, YouthBuild’s funding was devastated. Without further action, the Mahoning Valley program, along with approximately 120 other YouthBuild programs nationwide, will discontinue operations in the coming months.
06.08.2011	Thursday, June 8, 2011 WASHINGTON – This afternoon at Northern Virginia Community College, President Obama announced a major expansion of an industry led public-private partnership, Skills for America’s Future. The program fosters industry partnerships with community colleges in pursuit of building a nation-wide network to maximize work force development strategies, job training programs, and job placements. The Manufacturing Institute, an organization affiliated with the National Association of Manufacturers, is one of the major partners backing today’s expansion. The Institute plans to assist 500,000 community college students with training to help them obtain employment in the manufacturing sector. “As a co-founding member of the House Manufacturing Caucus, I support all efforts to strengthen the manufacturing sector,” said Ryan. “Manufacturing is the backbone of our economy and has led the economic recovery by creating over 230,000 jobs since 2010. Today’s announcement by President Obama is another step in our efforts to create jobs and strengthen the economy.” More information on President Obama’s announcement can be found here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2011/06/08/president-obama-and-skills-americas-future-partners-announce-initiatives Press ContactJerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261 Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
06.07.2011	Tuesday, June 7, 2011 WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan applauded the U.S. Trade Representative's (USTR) announcement that China has ended equipment subsidies related to wind power. In November of 2010, Congressman Ryan, with 180 of his colleagues, wrote a letter to President Obama calling on the administration to act against these subsidies that were the focus of a petition filed by the United Steelworks. The next month, USTR initiated an investigation into China's trade policies which ultimately led the U.S. to dispute the wind power subsidies with the World Trade Organization. These subsidies were in the form of grants from the Chinese government to Chinese wind turbine manufacturers that used Chinese components rather than imported parts. These individual grants were as large as $22.5 million per manufacturer and date back to 2008. "For too long, the Chinese government has refused to play by the rules," said Ryan. "These subsidies are just the latest example of the Chinese government's pattern of taking advantage of American manufacturers. We've seen this same type of unfair behavior from the Chinese through the manipulation of their currency, an action which I have repeatedly introduced legislation in the House of Representatives to combat. I'm glad that we helped end the Chinese government's deceitful practice of propping up its wind manufacturing, but there is much left to do to even the playing field." Recently, Congressman Ryan joined close to 40 of his colleagues in a letter to the Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee requesting $3.2 million additional funding for Fiscal Year 2012 for the USTR to expand efforts to monitor China's industrial policies. More information from the USTR can be obtained here: https://www.ustr.gov/about-us/press-office/press-releases/2011/june/china-ends-wind-power-equipment-subsidies-challenged Press ContactJerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261 Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
06.03.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following regarding his votes on resolutions in the House today relating to the continuing conflict in Libya. "I support efforts to protect the people of Libya from the current domestic threats they face. Speaker Boehner's resolution on Libya was nothing more than a political effort to embarrass President Obama, so I voted "No". I also voted "No" on Rep. Kucinich's resolution because I believe the greatest country in the world has a responsibility to protect against the slaughter of innocent people. The passage of Rep. Kucinich's resolution, which would have terminated the United States' partnership in NATO's Libya mission, would have sent the wrong message to the world about our commitment to human rights. While I voted "No" on these two bills, I've also conveyed my view to the White House that the President has a responsibility to comply with the War Powers Act and seek Congressional approval when involving our men and women in armed conflict. The President should seek Congressional approval for continued actions in Libya." Press ContactJerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261 Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
06.03.2011	Friday, June 3, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement today in observance of June as LGBT Pride Month. “This month we commemorate and honor the progress America’s lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community has made towards equality. I’ve been proud to stand with my friends in the LGBT community on issues of equality such as repeal of ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,’ and I look forward to supporting them in the future. A man once said ‘equality means dignity,’ – we continue to push for both for the LGBT community.” Congressman Ryan will speak at the Human Rights Campaign Dinner Gala in Columbus, Ohio on Saturday, June 4, 2011. Press ContactJerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261 Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
05.31.2011	Tuesday, May 31, 2011 WASHINGTON – Following tonight’s vote on raising the debt ceiling, Congressman Ryan released the following statement. “This stunt by House Republicans on the debt ceiling was pure political theater. Instead of allowing us to have an up or down majority wins vote on the debt ceiling, House Republicans gamed the process to require a super-majority. They set this vote up to fail. The American people know that we should not play around with the full faith and credit of the United States. The same people now holding the government hostage over the debt ceiling and deficit had no problem writing President George W. Bush a blank check for his tax cuts and wars. They grew the deficit by over $7 trillion through the next decade, and now they don’t want to pay for it. Until House Republicans get serious about approaching the debt ceiling, they’ll prevent us from getting anything accomplished. While I know we must raise the debt ceiling, I voted "No" tonight because I won’t play games with our economic security.” Press ContactJerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261 Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
05.31.2011	Tuesday, May 31, 2011 WASHINGTON – Responding to the release today of Senate Substitute HB 153, Congressman Tim Ryan issued the following statement. "I'm deeply disappointed that the Ohio legislature continues down the dangerous path of privatizing the Ohio Turnpike. I've fought this idea every time it's been proposed and I will continue to do so. The Ohio Turnpike is a major boost to the economies of both the Mahoning Valley and Northern Ohio. Efforts to privatize the Turnpike jeopardize more than one-thousand jobs, and threaten over $200 million in revenue flowing into Ohio. While I must commend the legislature on creating some oversight in this process, any push to privatize the Turnpike will kill jobs." Press ContactJerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
05.27.2011	Honors Jacob Carl Mohr of Kent and other Veterans Friday, May 27, 2011 WASHINGTON – Recently, Congressman Tim Ryan introduced legislation allowing greater access to government-furnished headstones/markers or gravestone medallions for deceased veterans. "We owe a debt of gratitude to those that serve our country, keep us safe, and, in some cases, pay the ultimate sacrifice for our freedom," said Ryan. "This bill ensures all those that serve America, regardless of when they die, are remembered for their service and thanked long after they're gone. Providing headstones, markers or medallions to honor our Veterans is the least we can do for those that have done so much for us and our liberties." Congressman Ryan's legislation updates existing law by removing an arbitrary eligibility date. When Congressman Ryan's bill becomes law, all veterans, regardless of whether they died after November 1, 1990, will be eligible for a VA furnished headstone/marker or gravestone medallion. This legislation was inspired by a letter written by Eileen Mohr of Kent, a constituent of the 17th Congressional District. Ms. Mohr contacted Congressman Ryan's office because a legal technicality prevented her deceased grandfather, Jacob Carl Mohr, from receiving a headstone or marker from the VA to commemorate his service. "The introduction of this legislation is a thrill to the family of Jacob Carl Mohr, Sr., a Second Lieutenant of Infantry in the U.S. Army during World War I," said Eileen Mohr. "Passage of this legislation will allow our family to obtain a marker/medallion on his headstone in a private cemetery near Buffalo, NY, even though he passed away in November 1972, it removes an arbitrary 1990 eligibility date. As a family, we worried that as we aged, we would be unable to continue to mark his grave on key holidays with an American flag. This legislation will ensure that our father/grandfather, and so many other deserving Veterans like him, will be able to continue to receive the honor and recognition that they so richly deserve. On behalf of the entire family of Jacob Carl Mohr, Sr., and all Veterans, our sincere thanks to Congressman Tim Ryan!" A copy of this legislation can be found here: https://timryan.house.gov/images/legislation/ryanoh_005_xml.pdf Press ContactJerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
05.26.2011	Thursday, May 26 WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan applauded the US Senate’s vote against the Republican effort to raise the cost and cut the benefits of Medicare. On Wednesday, May 26, the US Senate overwhelmingly rejected the GOP plan to red. Previously, Congressman Ryan voted against this plan when it came up in the US House of Representatives. “I commend my colleagues in the Senate for voting against the GOP plan to end Medicare as we know it in order to pay for tax giveaways for the most profitable oil companies,” said Ryan. “This bill dismantles Medicare. Period. The Republican plan asks seniors in Youngstown, Warren, and all across Ohio to pay out-of-pocket twice as much as they now pay for Medicare. We’ve promised our seniors that if they work hard, we’ll take care of them in their golden years. This plan goes back on that promise, it is not right, and it will be rejected by the American people and Congress.” Facts about this plan to end Medicare as we know it: · There are 111,143 Medicare-eligible individuals in Ohio’s 17th Congressional District. (SOURCE: Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services) · Under Medicare, a typical 65 year old would pay $6,150 out-of-pocket for healthcare. (SOURCE: Congressional Budget Office) · Under the Republican plan, a typical 65 year old would pay $12, 500 out-of-pocket for healthcare. (SOURCE: Congressional Budget Office) · This plan requires 54-year-olds to save an additional $182,000 more just to cover health care costs. (SOURCE: Center for Economic Policy and Research) Congressman Ryan’s recent floor speech condemning this recent attack against Medicare can be seen here: https://youtu.be/aWqOoDXCPb4 Press ContactJerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
05.25.2011	Wednesday, May 25, 2011 WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan called on Ohio state lawmakers to oppose bills in the Ohio legislature that will result in voter suppression. Currently pending in the Ohio State House and Senate, S.B 148 and H.B 194 make sweeping changes to Ohio election laws that would limit access and availability to voting. “These efforts at the Statehouse to restrict voting access are a transparent attack on our civil rights as Ohioans and Americans,” said Ryan. “These ‘reforms’ undeniably make it harder to vote, harder to register to vote, take away local control, and invalidate more people’s ballots. This measure draws the wrong kind of attention to Ohio, and to pretend that this is anything other than voter suppression insults the intelligence of our citizens.” “These bills seem to continue a disturbing pattern set with Senate Bill 5 where some Ohio lawmakers appear more interested in consolidating political power than helping those they’re elected to protect.” continued Ryan. Specifically, S.B. 148 and H.B. 194 include the following changes that will limit access to the polls: · Eliminates the period dubbed “Golden Week” during which citizens can simultaneously register to vote and vote early. · Restricts opportunities to vote early by mail and in-person. · Prohibits county board of elections from providing voters with early vote request forms via mail. Some versions of these bills have also included a requirement that voters present a state issued identification card in order to vote. Respected election law expert Dan Tokaji from The Ohio State University Moritz College of Law has likened this provision to a “poll tax.” Press ContactJerid Kurtz, (202) 225-5261Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov
05.19.2011	Thursday, May 19, 2011 WASHINGTON – U.S. Reps. Don Manzullo (R-Ill.) and Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) have launched a new website to keep citizens informed of the activities of the House Manufacturing Caucus, which they co-chair. The website – www.housemanufacturingcaucus.com – will chronicle the caucus’ efforts in the 112th Congress to strengthen U.S. manufacturing and help employers put Americans back to work. Manzullo and Ryan co-founded the Caucus in 2003. More than 70 Members of Congress have already joined the House Manufacturing Caucus, and membership continues to climb. “The House Manufacturing Caucus continues its mission to strengthen American manufacturing, and the new website will help share our efforts with the people,” Manzullo said. “I encourage anyone interested in manufacturing to visit www.housemanufacturingcaucus.com and sign up for our email updates so we can keep everyone informed about our efforts to bolster American manufacturing and help put Americans back to work.” “I am excited the House Manufacturing Caucus can now share our efforts to help protect American workers and employers through the website www.housemanufacturingcaucus.com,” Ryan said. “Manufacturing is the foundation of our economy, so it is essential we do all that we can to strengthen and protect this vital American industry. This online resource will help us keep the public informed on our fight to support high-end, advanced manufacturing and create jobs.” The new website includes a list of all caucus members with links to their Congressional web pages, along with lists of upcoming and past events with links to documents and speakers. It also has a “resources” section with links to government agencies and organizations vital to manufacturing. The “media center” offers news releases and articles on manufacturing from caucus members, and it also features links to the caucus’ pages on Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. Press ContactJerid Kurtz (Ryan), (202) 225-5261Jerid.Kurtz@mail.house.gov Rich Carter (Manzullo), (815) 356-9800 Rich.Carter@mail.house.gov
05.03.2011	WASHINGTON - Congressman Tim Ryan today issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s speech that Osama bin Laden has been killed in Pakistan: “It has been almost 10 years since 9/11, but the killing of Osama bin Laden shows the resolve of the American people. While remembering the sacrifices of our military, and the suffering of those affected by the 9/11 attacks, we express joy that justice has been served and the scourge of Osama bin Laden has been wiped from the face of the earth. “The President deserves credit for not giving up the search for bin Laden—and our military men and women who participated in this operation deserve our unending gratitude. The U.S. war on terror is not over, but the killing of Osama bin Laden is a historic accomplishment.”
04.07.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), a member of the House Budget Committee, released the following statement regarding the negotiations on a FY2011 Budget: “We must find a path that puts the American workforce first, and put aside political rhetoric. A government shutdown is unacceptable and I am hoping the Tea Party Republicans—who were elected on a promise to NOT compromise—will change their mind and work with us,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “It hurts on all fronts: our military, the environment, and the pace of economic recovery all take a hit. I think we should forward, and House Republicans want to move backward.” In the result of a Government Shutdown, here are some of the impacts: SHUTDOWN COULD PUT THE BRAKES ON ECONOMIC RECOVERYShutdown Could Cost the Economy $8 Billion Every Week. According to independent, non-partisan analysis from Goldman Sachs, “If funding lapsed, non-essential services would shut down immediately, representing around $8bn per week in missed federal spending...This would equate to $32bn in annualized terms, or around 0.2% of GDP for each week of shutdown.” [ABC News, 2/23/11]15,000 Homeowners Could Be Prevented From Getting a Home Loan Every Week. Each week that the government is shutdown could prevent 15,000 homeowners from obtaining a FHA-guaranteed mortgage, based on January 2011 data. In January, the FHA originated 119,521 mortgages – more than half of which were new home purchases rather than refinances. During the 1996-96 shutdowns, the Federal Housing Administration was unable to insure single family home loans for tens of thousands of applicants. According to officials at the time, the FHA normally processed 2,500 mortgage loans a day. [Joint Economic Committee; FHA Single-Family Outlook, January 2011; Clinton Radio Address, 1/22/96; American Banker, 1/8/96]Shutdown Could Delay 350 Export Licenses Every Week; $2.2 Billion in U.S. Exports Were Held Up During Last Shutdown. During the 1995-96 shutdowns, approximately $2.2 billion in U.S. exports couldn’t leave the country because the Department of State and Bureau of Export Administration were unable to issue more than 1,000 export licenses. In FY 2010, the Commerce Department processed 21,660 export license applications valued at approximately $66.2 billion. Based on that rate, Commerce could delay issuing approximately 350 export licenses to U.S. businesses every week during a shutdown. [Committee on Government Reform and Oversight, 12/6/95; U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, FY10 Annual Report]More Than 1,000 Small Business Loans Could Be Delayed Every Week. The Dallas Morning News reported that, during the 1995-96 shutdowns, “More than $ 1 million in loans to small businesses were delayed because the Small Business Administration couldn't guarantee loans.” In all, approximately 5,200 small businesses were delayed in receiving SBA guaranteed financing during the last shutdowns. On average in 2011, SBA has approved more than 1,000 7(a) and ARC loans every week, the processing of which could be delayed by a shutdown. [Dallas Morning News, 1/13/96; Committee on Government Reform and Oversight, 12/6/95; SBA Weekly Lending Report]Tourists Spend $11.9 Billion a Year Visiting National Parks, Benefiting Local Economies; During Last Shutdown, 368 National Parks Closed. During the 1995-96 shutdowns, “Closure of 368 National Park Service sites (loss of 7 million visitors) reportedly occurred, with loss of tourism revenues to local communities; and closure of national museums and monuments (reportedly with an estimated loss of 2 million visitors) occurred.” National parks support nearly 270,000 private-sector jobs and. In 2009, the 285.6 million visitors to national parks spent $11.89 billion in the local areas around the parks, with a total economic effect of $14.4 billion in sales, $4.8 billion in labor income, and $8.0 billion in value added. [CRS, 2/18/11; National Park Service, January 2011] NOTE: Click HERE (Table A-4) for economic impact of visitors to national parks in each state During Last Shutdown, 200,000 Passport Applications Went Unprocessed. During the 1995-96 shutdowns, “Approximately 20,000-30,000 applications by foreigners for visas reportedly went unprocessed each day; 200,000 U.S. applications for passports reportedly went unprocessed; and U.S. tourist industries and airlines reportedly sustained millions of dollars in losses.” [CRS, 2/18/11]SHUTDOWN COULD DELAY BENEFITS FOR SENIORS, VETERANS & MILITARY FAMILIESShutdown Would Impose Financial Hardships on Military and Civilian Personnel. With military families already facing military deployments and other hardships, a government shutdown could make the situation even worse. While most service members and military personnel would remain on duty through a shutdown, their paychecks could be delayed. [Stars and Stripes, 3/13/11]More Than 400,000 Veterans Saw Their Disability, Pension or Educational Benefits Delayed. During the 1995-96 shutdowns, more than 400,000 veterans saw their disability benefits and pension claims delayed, while educational benefits were delayed for 170,000 veterans. [Army Times, 2/3/11; CNN, 1/4/96]More Than 100,000 New Social Security Claims Were Delayed. In just four days during the 1995 shutdown, 112,000 claims for Social Security retirement and disability benefits were not taken and 800,000 callers were denied service on SSA’s 800 number. [SSA History]Clinical Trials and Disease Surveillance Were Halted. During the 1995-96 shutdowns, “New patients were not accepted into clinical research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) clinical center; the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ceased disease surveillance; hotline calls to NIH concerning diseases were not answered.” [CRS, 2/18/11]Services to 1.2 Million People With Disabilities Were Interrupted. During the 1995 and 1996 shutdowns, the Department of Education’s Office of Special Education Programs had no staff. A spokesman said that “services to an estimated 1.2 million people with disabilities were interrupted during the shutdown, and severe cash disruptions occurred in the federal-state rehabilitation system and the vocational rehabilitation system... The disruptions caused a trickle-down effect. Arkansas had to lay off 490 state employees in the state vocational rehabilitation program due to a disruption in federal support, and Texas suspended services for two days to 6,000 blind clients of its vocational rehabilitation program, he said.” [Special Educator, 2/2/96]SHUTDOWN COULD LEAVE AMERICA LESS SECUREHiring of New Border Patrol Agents Was Delayed. During the 1995-96 shutdowns, “cancellation of the recruitment and testing of federal law enforcement officials reportedly occurred, including the hiring of 400 border patrol agents; and delinquent child-support cases were delayed.” [CRS, 2/18/11]SHUTDOWN COULD INCREASE OUR DEPENDENCE ON FOREIGN OILOffshore Oil Rigs Were Idled. “The International Association of Drilling Contractors estimates the 20 day shutdown in December and January idled 24 offshore rigs for periods ranging from 2 to 7 days at a cost of $ 20,000-100,000/day. IADC estimated losses to the offshore industry at $ 7.8 million in the Gulf of Mexico alone during this period.” [Oil & Gas Journal, 2/12/96]DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE “…During a lapse in appropriations, some DOD personnel would be “excepted” from furloughs, including most or all uniformed military personnel, while others would not be permitted to work. Even “excepted” military and civilian personnel who would continue to work and whose pay is normally provided through annual appropriations would not be paid, however, until after appropriations are subsequently provided for that purpose.”
04.06.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, House Republicans rejected an amendment sponsored by Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), a member of the House Budget Committee, to protect working Americans from tax increases. The amendment rejects any tax increases for Americans with incomes below $200,000 ($250,000 for married couples).“While House Republicans are focused in eliminating critical projects for the benefits of millionaires, I am committed to working with my colleagues to make this budget work for the middle class,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Our country has already seen the aftermath of feeding corporate greed. If my colleagues on the right want working families to make sacrifices in order to balance our budget, the Wall Street CEOs and the wealthiest among us can make sacrifices too." According to the most recent U.S. Census data, American families lost ground during the 2000s as median incomes slipped 4.9 percent in real terms between 2000 and 2009. In contrast, between 1979 and 2007, according to CBO, average after-tax incomes for the top 1 percent almost tripled even after adjusting for inflation — or an increase in income of $973,100 per household. Over the same period, incomes for households in the middle rose just 25 percent and the poorest households saw their incomes rise just 16 percent. Watch the YouTube video of the vote here.
03.28.2011	(Washington, DC) - Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) has introduced legislation on behalf of the survivors of Marine recruits Michael T. Theodore, Jr., Joshua A. Sherbourne, and Zachary A. Nolen. The three individuals were in a government-owned vehicle driven by their recruiter, Marine Sergeant Charles Keene, when it was struck from behind, tragically ending their lives. They had each passed the required mental, moral, and physical examinations of the Marine Corps and were hours away from being sworn in as members of the Marine Corps’ Delayed Entry Program at the time of their deaths on March 31, 2010. “These young men had made the decision to enter into a commitment to our country. This bill would recognize their commitment as if they had made it to their destination and completed their enlistment,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “I believe that the tragic circumstances of their deaths warrants this consideration by Congress.” “I hope Congress can do something for any American who finds him or herself in this kind of situation,” said Ms. Rose Sherburne, Grandmother of Joshua A. Sherbourne. “My son was a role model in his community, for his sister and peers, and I hope Congress would be benevolent as it considers this issue,” said Mr. John Nolen, Father of Zachary A. Nolen. “This Bill will bring honor and respect to the families and young men involved in this untimely and tragic incident,” said Mr. Michael Theodore, Sr., Father of Michael T. Theodore, Jr. “My son was training for a year to get into the military and at no fault of his the opportunity to enlist into the Marine Corps was taken from him,” said Ms. April Hudnell, Mother of Zachary A. Nolen. H.R. 1045, introduced on March 11, 2001, would deem Michael T. Theodore, Jr., Joshua A. Sherbourne, and Zachary A. Nolen to have been insured under the Servicemembers Group Life Insurance at the time of their deaths on March 31, 2010. ###
03.15.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Reps. Joseph Crowley (D-NY), Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Donna F. Edwards (D-MD) and Tim Ryan (D-OH), who first challenged members of Congress who support the repeal of the Affordable Care Act to “walk the walk” and decline their taxpayer-subsidized health benefits in November 2010, introduced a resolution that would require all members of Congress to disclose whether they are enrolled in taxpayer-subsidized health care through the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (FEHBP). The introduction of the FEHBP disclosure resolution comes on the heels of a motion by Rep. Crowley to add this requirement to the Rules Package for the 112th Congress earlier this year, which was unanimously opposed by Republicans. Similar to the personal financial disclosure requirement, this resolution would require members to report to the Clerk of the House whether or not they are enrolled in FEHBP – making the information publicly available. The resolution would require members to disclose their participation in FEHBP to the Clerk no later than 60 days after taking the oath of office or 15 days after the adoption of the resolution. In addition, members would be required to notify the clerk within 15 days of any changes they make to their participation in the health benefits program. “It’s easy to spit out rhetoric, but it’s quite another thing to walk the walk. If Republicans wish to take away quality, affordable health care from Americans, then they should no longer be able to hide their benefits from the very public that subsidizes their own care,” said Rep. Crowley. “Taxpayers are our employer. They contribute to our health care coverage and they have the right to know if their representative in Congress is enrolled in taxpayer-subsidized health benefits. If Republicans are serious about their pledge to increase transparency and accountability in Congress, this resolution should receive unanimous support.” “Based on all of their rhetoric, you would think that Republicans disapproved of taxpayer-funded health care,” said Rep. Sánchez. “They do – for millions of Americans who would struggle to get coverage, but not for themselves. If Republicans are truly proud of voting to repeal health care, they should be proud and decline their tax-payer funded health benefits. They should take it a step further and share their decision with the American people.” “Instead of focusing on creating jobs and strengthening the economy, the Republican majority continues to prioritize efforts to repeal and defund the Affordable Care Act,” said Rep. Edwards. “Republicans who work to deny millions of Americans the opportunity to obtain affordable, quality health care coverage forfeit the right to accept employer-subsidized FEHBP health insurance. I am proud to join my colleagues in introducing this resolution to highlight the hypocrisy surrounding this issue and will continue fighting to protect the Affordable Care Act on behalf of American families.” “House Republicans want to have their cake and eat it too, and it’s time to hold them accountable,” said Rep. Ryan. “If Republicans truly believe in transparency and accountable, they should have no problem disclosing to their constituents whether they receive government-sponsored health care. Yet they’ve repeatedly voted against having to disclose this information. What are Republicans trying to hide?” “House Republican members seeking to repeal and defund the Affordable Care Act are guilty of a double standard,” said Ron Pollack, Families USA’s Executive Director. “They plan to take away from our families the same benefits and rights they intend to keep for themselves-courtesy of America’s taxpayers. It is enough to give hypocrisy a bad name.” Members of Congress, like all federal employees, have access to health insurance through their employer. The FEHB program provides federal employees with a range of private insurance plans from which they can choose the coverage plan that works best for them and their families. Federal employees, including members of Congress, pay premiums for the care they receive. The Affordable Care Act was designed to provide a similar structure for Americans who do not have access to affordable coverage to obtain insurance, such as many self-employed and small business employees. In January, Republicans voted to repeal the Affordable Care Act despite the fact that the majority of Americans oppose repeal of the law. Reps. Crowley, Sánchez, Edwards, and Ryan have led the charge in exposing Republican hypocrisy on the issue of healthcare. Last fall, the members led 61 House Democrats in letter to GOP Leadership calling on Republican members of Congress who support the repeal of the Affordable Care Act to “walk the walk” by declining their own taxpayer-subsidized health care and forgoing enrollment in FEHBP. Over 20 Republican members of Congress have since declined enrolling in FEHBP; however, the vast majority of these members have a back-up plan for securing health care coverage for them and their families, such as benefits offered through a previous employer, the Veterans Administration and state legislatures. To read the letter sent by the Members to Republican Leadership last year, please click here.
03.01.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) delivered a powerful floor speech in opposition of Ohio Senate Bill 5. Last week, Congressman Ryan joined former Ohio Governor Ted Strickland to rally with workers at the Columbus Statehouse, and participated in a forum at Youngstown State University to oppose the measure that will effectively end collective bargaining.Click here to watch a YouTube video of Congressman Ryan’s floor speech this morning. -30-
02.25.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), a member of the House Budget Committee, made the following statement regarding cuts to Pell Grants, a post-secondary educational Federal grant sponsored by the U.S. Department of Education, in the passage of the Republican-supported Appropriations Act (H.R. 1), last week: “House Republicans have truly put America’s workforce and families last when it comes to higher education. Over 9 million students in our country depend on this aid, and now they’ll see their benefits reduced tremendously," said Congressman Tim Ryan. "If we are serious about real economic development and wealth creation, then our workforce needs to be competitive by putting more students in classrooms. It’s not rocket science-- it’s common sense.” Pell Grants are targeted toward students from low-income families. According to the U.S. PIRG, next school year, a student currently receiving the $5,550 maximum award would see their aid dropped to $4,705. By 2017 students would see a $2,090 cut to the currently projected maximum award of $6,105. The Republican-supported Appropriations Act reduces the average Pell Grant award by $670 in Ohio. -30-
02.24.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressmen Tim Ryan (OH-17) and Brian Higgins (NY-27) introduced legislation to give federal aid and support to cities experiencing major population loss. The Community Regeneration, Sustainability and Innovation Act (CRSI). H.R. 790 would create a new, competitive program within the U.S. Department of Housing and Community Development (HUD) that targets cities and metropolitan areas experiencing large-scale property vacancy and abandonment due to long-term employment and population losses. The program would make funds available for the demolition of abandoned properties, the innovative reuse of existing structures, the creation of green space and city planning purposes.“There are a number of older, industrial cities in my Ohio district that have begun to reinvent themselves – this program will provide the support that they need to continue a successful trajectory,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “These funds will help those cities that have been hardest hit by long-term blight and decay to create healthier, economically competitive, and sustainable neighborhoods.”"Storied neighborhoods with great character and potential are crushing under the weight of vacant homes that drive blight, crime and economic deterioration,” said Congressman Brian Higgins. “By supporting removal or creative reuse of vacant properties we give regions like Western New York tools that make our neighborhoods stronger and safer and reinvigorate the local economy.” Under the bill, 15 smaller municipalities and 15 larger municipalities with a history of continued population loss since 1980 and widespread property vacancy would be eligible to apply to the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for up to $250,000 in assistance. Grantees could use the funding toward community efforts to address vacancy issues including: deconstruction and demolition, regional land bank establishment or expansion, the development of green infrastructure, or the adaptive reuse of historically, architecturally or culturally significant structures. In addition to providing federal funds to cities and towns, the Community Regeneration, Sustainability and Innovation Act also creates a Federal Interagency Regeneration Communities Coordinating Council to offer technical assistance and support to the regions chosen for the pilot project. The bill was written in consultation with prominent think tanks including the Northeast-Midwest Institute, SmartGrowth America, Local Initiatives Support Corporation (LISC), and the Center for Community Progress, as well as local neighborhood associations in cities across the country. -30-
02.16.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), a member of the House Budget Committee, addressed Chinese Currency Manipulation with Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner. Secretary Geithner acknowledged the undervaluing of currency in China and its negative economic impact in the United States, a reiteration of Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke's admission, last week. Last Thursday, Congressman Tim Ryan, House Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sandy Levin, and Congressman Tim Murphy (R-PA) joined Senator Sherrod Brown and other House and Senate Members in re-introducing the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act. The legislation clears the way for the Commerce Department to treat undervalued currency as a subsidy under U.S. trade law. That would allow companies, on a case-by-case basis, to seek higher countervailing duties against imports from China that compete with U.S. production.Click here to watch a YouTube video of the exchange between Congressman Ryan and Secretary Geithner at this afternoon's House Budget Committee hearing. -30-
02.15.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Sens. Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Rob Portman (R-OH), and Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) today introduced legislation to rename the United States Postal Service office on Tallmadge Road in Rootstown after a Portage County Marine killed in Iraq in November 2005. Sergeant Jeremy E. Murray, a native of Rootstown, was on his third tour of duty abroad. Murray's mother is a longtime employee of the Tallmadge Road facility. “Sergeant Jeremy Murray was a patriot who selflessly gave his life for our nation. Nothing we can do can fully honor his contribution to our country’s national security and our freedom—but we can pay tribute to his memory by renaming the Rootstown post office in his honor,” Senator Brown said. “In doing so, we can ensure that Sergeant Murray’s service is remembered and appreciated for years to come.” “Marine Corps Sergeant Jeremy Murray was an honorable and dedicated member of our Armed Forces who made the ultimate sacrifice in the name of freedom. Sergeant Murray’s service to our nation is something that should never be forgotten and by naming the Tallmadge Road Post Office in his honor, it will preserve his legacy as one of Ohio’s true heroes,” said Senator Portman. “I’m proud to work with Senator Brown and Senator Portman to honor the life of Sergeant Jeremy Murray, who made the ultimate sacrifice for our country,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “This facility will memorialize his legacy as a Rootstown hero for generations to come.” Sergeant Murray was awarded the Purple Heart, a Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal, and a Gold Star for heroic achievement in Iraq. He is survived by his wife Megan, his son Ian, and his parents, Pam and Harold Murray. ###
02.15.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), member of the House Budget Committee, condemned the Continuing Resolution (CR) introduced by House Republican Leadership. This bill would be responsible for funding federal programs through September 2011. In Ohio, the CR would reduce the average pell grant award by $670, cut 2,575 jobs, and reduce major transportation and infrastructure investments by $89,662,973. “Instead of proposing smart investments that create wealth and increase American competitiveness in a global market, House Republicans have presented illogical solutions that attack working families and discourage innovation and prosperity,” said Congressman Ryan. “In order to open up a small window of press opportunity, the GOP is willing to close doors on serious investments that will create real economic recovery. My fear is that this Republican budget will damage our fragile recovery." In addition to the local impact, the Continuing Resolution would make the following cuts nationwide: Transportation & Infrastructure – the Republican CR cuts key investment in roads, schools, bridges, which are critical for businesses to grow and which create good-paying American jobs. Despite the clear link between transportation funding and economic recovery, the CR cuts billions for transit, high speed rail, roads and other key infrastructure projects. The proposed cuts to transportation include: • $4.975 billion in High Speed and Intercity Passenger Rail grants; • $710 million in Transit Capital Investment Grants; • $292 million in Federal Highway Administration Surface Transportation Priorities; • $150 million in grants to Amtrak; and • $100 million in FRA Rail Safety Technology grants. • $234 million to improve our nation’s air traffic control system • These cuts will cause a loss of 25,000 new construction jobs and the cancellation of 76 projects in 40 states. • U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT), estimates that each $1 billion spent on the federal highway system supported, on average, 30,000 jobs. • The American Public Transportation Association estimates “that every $10 million in capital investment in public transportation yields $30 million in increased business sales” and saves $15 million in transportation costs for both highway and transit users. • Every $1 billion in federal transit investments results in 35,000 jobs, $3.6 billion in sales, and $500 million in tax revenues.Education – Education is critical to ensuring that the next generation of students is prepared to become the educated workforce of tomorrow. • Head Start: Under the CR more than 200,000 children will be kicked out of Head Start and thousands of teachers will lose their jobs • Pell Grants: The CR will cause an $800 reduction per student in the maximum Pell Grant award. Pell Grants provide the basic foundation of federal student aid and help more than 8 million students afford to attend college.Public Health and Safety– The Republican CR cuts important funding that keeps American families safe. • It will mean 1,330 fewer cops on the beat by eliminating the COPS hiring program • It will lead to 2,400 fewer firefighters on the job protecting their communities by eliminating funding for SAFER grants • It cuts FDA funding by $241 million and will lead to furloughs and/or RIFs of hundreds of FDA staff including those who inspect our domestic and imported foods. • The CR cuts funds by $88 million below current levels for the Food Safety and Inspection Service, which is responsible for the safety of meat and poultry. According to the USDA this will mean furloughing federal inspectors in slaughter and processing plants, causing plants to shut down for six to nine weeks. This will hurt the plants, the economies in their towns, the workers, producers and consumers, as prices rise. USDA estimates an economic loss of $11 billion.LIHEAP - Heating Assistance for Low-Income Families. • Republicans plan to cut $400 million from LIHEAP. • This will leave thousands of Americans struggling to heat their homes, while missing an opportunity to make our homes more efficient starting with those who need it most. Weatherizing homes is one of the cheapest and easiest ways to save Americans money, cut energy use and reduce dangerous pollution.Homeless Veterans – The Republican proposal would terminate the Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing program that gives homeless veterans rental vouchers. • A recent report from the Department of Housing and Urban Development concluded that there were more than 135,000 homeless veterans – nearly half of whom were living on the street or in abandoned buildings.
02.14.2011	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), member of the House Budget Committee and the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement regarding President Obama’s budget request for fiscal year 2012: “President Obama’s budget calls for smart investments that will enable Americans to create wealth in our region while reducing the deficit. His proposal is an important first step as Congress begins prioritizing programs that will revitalize our economy and strengthen the American manufacturing base. I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Budget Committee to shape a fair and responsible fiscal year 2012 budget.” # # #
02.10.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ryan (OH-17) announced the reintroduction of the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act. Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-12), together with 100 Democrat and Republican co-sponsors, will sponsor the bill in the House to hold China accountable for the manipulation of its currency. Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) is introducing companion legislation in the Senate. The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act of 2011 seeks to level the playing field for American workers and businesses by giving the administration additional tools to address China’s fundamental undervaluation of its currency. A nearly identical bill overwhelmingly passed the House last September with broad bipartisan support.“This legislation will provide tremendous relief to our manufacturers. China’s unfair trade policies have destroyed millions of good-paying American jobs, and jeopardized the future of the American middle-class. We can no longer expect domestic companies to compete against a country that flouts international trade laws,” stated Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio. “Manufacturing is the foundation of our economy, and we need to increase the manufacturing base in the U.S. For every manufacturing job that is created, up to six additional jobs are spun off. It is the duty of this Congress to move forward with currency reform legislation and continue to fight on behalf of American jobs and our manufacturing industry.” A report by the Economic Policy Institute concluded that between 2001 and 2008, 2.4 million jobs were lost and thousands of workers were displaced in every U.S. Congressional District as a result of China’s currency manipulation and unfair trade policies. The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act (H.R. 2378), sponsored by Congressman Ryan and Congressman Tim Murphy (R-PA), was introduced in the 111th Congress. It passed the House by a vote of 348 to 79, with a majority of both parties.
02.09.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), a member of the House Budget Committee, addressed unemployment and Chinese Currency Manipulation with Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke. Congressman Ryan highlighted the “unacceptable” employment rate locally, and Chairman Bernanke made a call for additional short-term fiscal stimulus combined with long-term budgetary austerity. With regards to Chinese Currency Manipulation, Chairman Bernanke admitted that China’s currency is undervalued and contributes to our economic woes. Tomorrow, Congressman Tim Ryan, House Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sandy Levin, and Congressman Tim Murphy (R-PA) will join Sen. Sherrod Brown and other House and Senate Members in re-introducing the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act. The legislation clears the way for the Commerce Department to treat undervalued currency as a subsidy under U.S. trade law. That would allow companies, on a case-by-case basis, to seek higher countervailing duties against imports from China that compete with U.S. production.Click here to watch a YouTube video of the exchange between Congressman Ryan and Chairman Bernanke. -30-
02.09.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) announced this afternoon that the Northeastern Ohio Universities Colleges of Medicine and Pharmacy (NEOUCOM) has received two grants from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), totaling $757,168 in funding. NEOUCOM has been awarded $422,218 through the HHS National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders, in order to study the functional anatomy of the auditory system. The institution has also received $334,950 from the HHS National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, in order to research diabetes, endocrinology and metabolism.“These funds will assist NEOUCOM to further its excellent work in the health sciences,” said Congressman Ryan. “By continuing to invest in research and development activities at our region’s medical institutions, we can capitalize on Northeastern Ohio’s growing reputation as a top-tier bioscience center – positively impacting our economy through job creation, education, and capital investments.” NEOUCOM is a community-based, public institution focused on the training of health professionals. Through its educational, research and service mission, NEOUCOM improves the quality of health care in Northeast Ohio. The University is a member of the University System of Ohio and its partners include teaching hospitals, community sites, and boards of health. For more information, visit their website. -30-
02.09.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Senator Rob Portman (R-OH) and Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) met in Washington to discuss vital economic development projects in Northeast Ohio, as well as common goals and concerns for the 112th Congress.“It was great to meet with Congressman Ryan today and I look forward to working with him on projects that affect the Mahoning Valley and the entire State of Ohio. The Mahoning Valley’s workforce is second to none and we need to build on that to strengthen the economy and create jobs and opportunities for those workers,” said Senator Rob Portman. “I look forward to working with Senator Portman to advance our shared vision for a stronger Ohio,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “With all the progress made in strengthening and diversifying our local economy in recent years, Northeast Ohio’s reputation as a great place to do business is growing. We want to build on that reputation and identify new ways to create wealth and jobs back home.” -30-
02.08.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) joined members of the Ohio delegation to call for the interagency transfer of a retired National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Space Shuttle orbiter, which would be preserved and displayed at the National Museum of the United States Air Force (NMUSAF) in Ohio."It would be an honor and privilege for Ohio to host a retired space shuttle,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “The Museum maximizes the visibility of the Air Force for Ohio residents and all Americans. The shuttle’s presence at this world-class facility will encourage continued interest in science, mathematics, and technology – all while telling the proud story of the United States Air Force.” The NMUSAF is located on historic Wright-Patterson Air Force Base near Dayton, Ohio. The Museum hosts 1.3 million visitors annually. The full text of the letter is below the fold. -30- February 7, 2011 Major General Charles F. Bolden, USMC (Ret.) Administrator National Aeronautics and Space Administration 300 E Street, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20546-0002 Dear General Bolden: We are writing to express our continued support for the Secretary of the Air Force’s request for an interagency transfer of a retired National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Space Shuttle orbiter for preservation and display at the National Museum of the United States Air Force (NMUSAF) in Ohio. We wish to reiterate our support for this transfer by emphasizing the mutual advantages for NASA, the Air Force, and the American people. Public visibility and accessibility are key benefits to placing the orbiter at the Air Force’s national museum. The NMUSAF, located on historic Wright-Patterson Air Force Base near Dayton, Ohio, is a cross roads of Middle America. Within a day’s drive of 60 percent of the U.S. population, the Museum hosts 1.3 million visitors annually. The NMUSAF, which is the world’s oldest and largest aviation museum, provides a premier venue to showcase the shuttle. Its ample free parking and free admission make it easily accessible to all. Of particular note, the Museum has adopted a mission to promote Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education and has committed to an intensive STEM education program, not only in connection with the space shuttle, but with all its educational programming. The Ohio Department of Education, a national leader in STEM education, intends to use a shuttle at the Museum for maximum educational benefits throughout the state, especially in lessons directly aligned with STEM. Moreover, the NMUSAF will use the shuttle not only for educational purposes, but in fulfilling its central mission to preserve and present the Air Force story, and to archive aerospace defense technology. The Museum has the world’s best aviation preservationists. No other museum in the world matches the knowledge and resources needed to preserve an orbiter. Thus, by keeping the shuttle in the Air Force and the federal government, it will continue to provide taxpayer benefits. And, as a national treasure, it belongs in the hands of the people. Strengthening important aerospace heritage relationships is another key benefit of placing an orbiter at the NMUSAF, near the historic home and workplace of the Wright Brothers. Ohio, the birthplace of aviation, is proud of its century-long tradition of aviation pioneering and human spaceflight development. The Air Force has been a full partner with NASA in human spaceflight from its origins in the Mercury program to today. The Air Force has contributed more than $8 billion in research and development, operations and maintenance, procurement, and construction funding in support of the Shuttle program. Because of the role of the Department of Defense in developing the our nations human spaceflight program including the Space Shuttle Program including sponsoring numerous shuttle missions, it is important to use the shuttle to tell the story to the American people of its important contributions to our national security—and there is no better place to tell that story than in the Defense Department’s largest and most popular museum. With these facts and our support in mind, we hope that you will carefully consider the many advantages of placing an orbiter under Air Force stewardship at the NMUSAF. We all look forward to Ohio becoming a home for this national treasure and being able to aid in sharing an important chapter in space history for all Americans. Sincerely, Sherrod Brown Robert Portman Michael R. Turner Steve Austria Steve Chabot Bob Gibbs Marcia Fudge Bill Johnson Jim Jordan Marcy Kaptur Steve LaTourette Robert Latta James Renacci Tim Ryan Jean Schmidt Steve Stivers Betty Sutton Patrick Tiberi
02.07.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ryan made the following statement regarding the tragedy that occurred at Youngstown State University on Sunday:"I spoke with YSU President Cynthia Anderson over the weekend, and have offered the university community all the resources of my office in preventing further violence in our community. My thoughts and prayers are with the family and friends of Jamail Johnson and those still recovering from their injuries. Though devastating, this tragedy does not define our community – we will mourn together, heal together, and continue to work together in shaping a brighter future for all residents of the Mahoning Valley.”
02.07.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) applauded the final United States International Trade Commission (USITC) vote which will impose antidumping and countervailing duties on Chinese Drill Pipe. The USITC today determined that a U.S. industry is threatened with material injury by reason of imports of drill pipe and drill collars from China that the U.S. Department of Commerce has determined are subsidized and sold in the United States at less than fair value. “Today’s decision is a win for our manufacturers. The Obama Administration is holding China accountable for their unfair trade practices that have made it difficult for the United States to complete in global market,” stated Congressman Ryan. “Keeping our manufacturing sector strong is critical for economic recovery and job growth. For every manufacturing job created, up to six spinoff jobs are added to the local and regional workforce.”“We are very pleased with today’s ruling from the ITC,” said Vicki Avril, president and CEO of TMK IPSCO, one of North America’s largest producers of energy pipe with local operations in Brookfield, Ohio. “This decision levels the playing field in the drill pipe industry, and in essence, enables us to continue to manufacture our product domestically. It helps secure our long-term outlook for growth, particularly our operations in Pennsylvania and Ohio, where we employ nearly 800 skilled workers. Their future, and ours, is brighter thanks to this development. We commend Congressman Ryan for his efforts to fight for fair trade practices, and thank him for supporting the U.S. manufacturing industry.” Last Month, the U.S. Department of Commerce issued its final determinations in the antidumping and countervailing duty investigations on imports of Chinese steel drill pipe. Additionally, the USITC held its final hearing case on the subject on which Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) provided testimony. The USITC will notify the Department of Commerce by February 17, 2011 of its decision, and the Department of Commerce will then instruct the United States Customs and Border Protection to collect antidumping and countervailing duties on imports of these products from China.
02.02.2011	WARREN – Today, Congressman Ryan (OH-17) announced grants totaling $220,995 for three local agencies through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Department of Homeland Security. In the current round of funding, the Bazetta Fire Department will receive $83,508; the Austintown Fire Department will receive $85,655; and the Mogadore Fire Department will receive $51,832.“This is great news for our local communities,” Congressman Ryan said. “Our firefighters and first responders put their lives on the line every day, and ensuring their safety is of the utmost importance to local municipalities. This federal funding is essential – filling gaps in municipal budgets during an economic downturn. And I will continue to push for this funding as long as our local governments struggle to provide the resources needed to ensure the safety of the brave men and women in our fire and police departments.” The AFG program awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public – as well as that of the first-responder personnel. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders to obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. For more information, visit the program’s website.
02.02.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), a member of the House Budget Committee, applauded the release of the Department of Education’s Pell Grant Schedule, which will set the Pell Grant maximum award at $5,550 for the neediest students in the next academic year. This increase was made possible through the Continuing Appropriations Amendment, passed through Congress and signed by President Obama last year, as well as the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007. “Thanks to the leadership of the Democratically-led Congress, over 9 million students from low and middle income households will be able to make their dreams of higher education a reality through the help of these necessary resources,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “I urge my Republican colleagues to recognize the doors of opportunity they would close by reducing these awards significantly. If we want to get serious about economic recovery, then we must provide the resources in order to make our workforce competitive at all levels.” Last week, the Republican-led Congress passed House Resolution 38, which by preliminary estimates would reduce the current Pell Grant maximum award by over $1,500, while hundreds of thousands would see their grant aid reduced by around 25 percent. Congressman Ryan strongly opposes that GOP plan and voted against H. Res. 38. The Pell Grant program currently provides scholarship aid to 9.2 million students each year.
01.28.2011	(Washington, DC) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) released a letter sent to the House Ways and Means Committee that calls for further extension of the Health Coverage Tax Credit. Beneficiaries stand to lose their benefits if Congress does not pass an extension by February 13, 2011. The full text of the letter is attached to this release. “As many Americans continue to struggle in this economy, continuing the Health Coverage Tax Credit will provide security for thousands of families that are experiencing difficulty through no fault of their own,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Extending these benefits is a fiscally and socially responsible action that will provide affordable and continuous health coverage to families from whom benefits have been stripped – while preventing increased Medicaid caseloads.” # # #
01.26.2011	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) applauded the decision by the Small Business Administration (SBA) to expand their e200 Emerging Leaders executive-level training initiative to include Youngstown. The nine-month training includes approximately 100 hours of classroom time per participant and provides the opportunity for small business owners to work with experienced mentors, attend workshops and develop connections with their peers, city leaders, and financial communities. “The training, mentorship and resources that the SBA will provide here will truly help our local businesses create wealth,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “I hope to see similar success this program has brought so many other communities.” The e200 Emerging Leaders initiative has helped more than 600 promising small business owners across the country grow their businesses since 2008, and more than half of the businesses that have completed the e200 training have shown an increase in revenue of over $7 million. Nearly 60 percent have reported creating new jobs in their communities. Surveyed entrepreneurs also reported having secured nearly $10 million in new financing for their businesses, with an increase in confidence when applying for government contracts. As a result, post-trainees have reported securing nearly 500 federal, state and local contracts, worth more than $112 million. Local recruitment for the 2011 training cycle will start in February through SBA district offices and classes are scheduled to begin in April. For more information about e200 Emerging Leaders, visit www.sba.gov/e200. ###
01.26.2011	(Warren, OH) – Today, Congressman Ryan (OH-17) announced a grant totaling $18,136 for the Palmyra Township Fire Department from the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Department of Homeland Security. In April 2010, the Palmyra Township Fire Department received $55,955 through the AFG program. “I am excited to announce additional assistance for Palmyra Township,” Congressman Ryan said. “The safety of firefighters and first responders is a high priority, and this grant funding helps to fill budget gaps for small municipalities during difficult economic times. I will continue pushing for additional federal funding for local governments who struggle to provide needed resources for the brave men and women in our fire and police departments.” The AFG program awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public – as well as that of the first-responder personnel. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders to obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. For more information, visit the program’s website. # # #
01.25.2011	(Washington, DC)- Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) made the following statement in advance of President Obama’s State of the Union Address: “Tonight, I will sit with my Republican colleague Congressman Bill Johnson and the entire Ohio Delegation, including Senators Brown and Portman, at President Obama’s State of the Union address. While I may have ideological differences with Republican members of our delegation, we share the understanding that the problems Ohio is facing transcend party lines. Congress cannot encourage job growth or wealth creation when we restrict ourselves to ‘left’ or ‘right’ – what we really need is a unified, bipartisan effort to move America forward. I anticipate that the President will focus his address on the challenges we face together as we rebuild our economy, invest in our physical and technological infrastructure, and compete in a global marketplace. I look forward to working with all of my colleagues in the 112th Congress as we work toward to achieve our shared goals of recovery, security, and prosperity.” ###
01.25.2011	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) made the following statement after voting against the Republican Budget-less Resolution: “Today, House Republicans submitted a budget proposal that was missing a budget,” stated Congressman Ryan. “I realize that being the majority party in the House of Representatives is difficult, but empty gestures and arbitrary numbers will neither spur our economy nor reduce the federal deficit. Instead, we must make difficult tactical decisions about which long-term investments will create jobs and build wealth for America’s working families.” The Congressman added, “While we argue over semantics, China is investing hundreds of billions of dollars into green energy and new technology. I stand ready to work with my Republican colleagues, but perhaps they should focus on directing funds to strategic programming that will keep us competitive in the global economy.” ###
01.24.2011	(Washington, DC)- Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) made the following statement in response to Governor Kasich’s plans to visit Lordstown tomorrow: “I thank Governor Kasich for inviting me to join him at the General Motors Lordstown plant. However, Congress is back in session this evening, and I will be in Washington for scheduled committee meetings and votes, and will be attending the State of the Union address tomorrow evening. I am confident that the Governor will be impressed by the quality workmanship of a skilled workforce dedicated to producing an outstanding car that will help drive growth in Ohio’s automobile industry for decades to come. I look forward to coordinating a date with the Governor’s office in the near future to discuss the rebirth of General Motors and other exciting projects underway in the 17th District.” ###
01.21.2011	(Washington, DC)- Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), who was re-appointed to the House Armed Service Committee this week, made the following statement in response to the recent announcement by the U.S. Army that the suicide rate has doubled in the National Guard: “The alarming rate of suicides within the National Guard is unacceptable, and it’s clear that we in Congress—and especially those of us on the Armed Services Committee—must take decisive action so that the men and women who protect our country get the assistance they need. Suicide is not only an issue in the military, but a problem in society at large and the third leading cause of death for people between the ages 15 and 24.” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “I plan to work with my colleagues to identify programs that will be most effective in the prevention, evaluation, and treatment of stress-related mental health issues in the military, and I intend to press the Department of Defense and the service branches for fast and lasting progress, and from there we can work to fix the issue at large.” ###
01.20.2011	(Washington, DC)- Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) was appointed today to serve on the House Budget Committee, which, with his appointment yesterday to the House Armed Services Committee, provides Congressman Ryan with the opportunity to make sure that the 17th District receives the federal investments necessary to continue moving out of the recession. The jurisdiction of the House Budget Committee is derived from the Budget Act, and includes jurisdiction over the concurrent resolution on the budget and the budget process generally. The House Budget Committee establishes federal spending and taxing priorities in each Congress. Over the years, the duties and responsibilities of the Budget Committee have been established in statute, as well as House Rules and includes the budget resolution, reconciliation, budget process reform, oversight of the Congressional Budget Office, and revisions of allocations and adjustments to the federal budget. “Balancing the federal budget is a serious concern for the American public,” said Congressman Ryan. “Our dependence on foreign debt puts our nation at great risk, as we are forced to negotiate trade and environmental issues, as well as discuss human rights with the same nation’s who are lending us money. I look forward to working with Chairman Ryan and Ranking Member Van Hollen to find common ground on how to end the cycle of indebtedness.” With this appointment, Congressman Ryan will help oversee the approximately 20 categories of the budget. Both the President's budget, submitted annually, and Congress' budget resolution, passed annually, comprise the functions of the budget. ###
01.20.2011	(Washington, DC)- Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) announced today that Governor John Kasich has accepted his invitation to visit the 17th Congressional District to discuss vital economic development projects in Northeast Ohio. In a letter to Gov. Kasich, sent earlier this month, Congressman Ryan highlighted the progress made locally, and the need to discuss goals that will contribute to Northeast Ohio’s rebirth. “Regardless of party affiliation, I will work with Governor Kasich to continue the progress we have made,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “From the expansion at V&M to the third shift at Lordstown, Northeast Ohio’s reputation as a great place to do business is growing. We want to build on that reputation.” The original invitation to Governor Kasich is below the fold. ### January 3, 2011 Governor-Elect John Kasich 340 East Gay Street Columbus, Ohio 43215 Dear Governor-Elect Kasich: As you carry on the transition to your new office, I wanted to take a moment to offer you my congratulations on becoming Ohio’s 63rd Governor. With the election behind us, I hope that we can work together to advance our shared vision for a stronger Ohio. In recent years, much progress has been made in strengthening and diversifying the economy of Northeast Ohio. Goodyear recently reaffirmed its commitment to the region by keeping its global headquarters in Akron. This announcement meant the retention of 3,500 jobs directly in the community and the construction of a 450,000 square foot facility that will spur retail, commercial and housing development. Additionally, a public-private-university partnership has established the Austen BioInnovation Institute in Akron (ABIA), a facility that has been designated as an Ohio Center of Excellence for Biomedicine and Healthcare. The ABIA’s mission is to accelerate translational research to biomedical commercialization as well as improve access, education, prevention, treatment and disease management. The institute is moving Akron toward a secure economic future, with a goal of creating 2,400 jobs within the next decade, and is a critical element of the City of Akron's Biomedical Corridor, a unique effort aimed at luring health-related ventures to the region. In Portage County, great progress has been made to transition the 20,000 acres of the former Ravenna Army Ammunition Plant to productive use by transforming the facility into a training center. Currently, Camp Ravenna has a total economic impact on the state and region of $23 million annually, with that number expected to grow as its training capacity and staffing levels increase. The Guard estimates that military personnel will spend an additional $15 million in the region annually when the facility is fully operational: bringing valuable dollars into the community’s restaurants, hotels and other service providers. The Mahoning Valley was recently recognized as having the highest manufacturing job growth in the nation at 8.9 percent, with the Cleveland MSA coming in second. This success is largely attributed to the recent expansion of the V&M Star facility in Youngstown and the deployment of the new Chevy Cruze from the General Motors Lordstown Complex. The Youngstown Business Incubator (YBI) continues to see both large and small successes, with the recent sale of Turning Technologies, a deal which will bring new capital to the company and enable its continued growth. YBI also recently announced that its portfolio company Accupoint Software closed its first two foreign sales. The firm's Interlink QES quality, environmental and safety solution technology has been selected by a gas and oil exploration firm headquartered in London. With the recent addition of Eastern Gateway Community College and the Tech Belt Energy Innovation Center, an advanced energy business incubator, the city of Warren continues the process of reinventing itself and restoring its historic downtown. The 17th congressional district is home to four major universities, all of which are not only working to provide a high tech workforce for the jobs of the new economy, but also developing new products, processes and technologies that can be spun off for commercial development. The University of Akron is a world leader in the study of polymers, Kent State University in liquid crystal technology and Youngstown State University in advanced materials. And, in addition to turning out doctors and pharmacists, NEOUCOM is conducting research on topics including tissue engineering, medical applications of biopolymers, normal and abnormal skeletal development, orthopedic diseases and cancer. If you would like to arrange a meeting, in which I can share with you firsthand the projects that are contributing to Northeastern Ohio’s rebirth, and to discuss our common goals and concerns, please contact me at (330) 373-0074. I look forward to the opportunity to work with you. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress (OH-17)
01.19.2011	(Washington, DC)- Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) released a report compiled by the Energy and Commerce Committee outlining the local impact of health care repeal, introduced by the Republican-led majority. This week, the House Republican Leadership is bringing this legislation to the House Floor for a vote. “The Congressional Budget Office has determined that the Republican effort to repeal this health insurance bill will add $230 billion to the federal debt. And what would we get for that? Tens of millions of uninsured citizens with limited or no access to health care,” said Congressman Ryan. “Repealing these benefits would bring further pain to our economy, and maintain a policy of paying more and getting less for health care and at the same time leaving millions of uninsured.” The repeal of health care benefits would negatively impact the 17th Congressional District by: Allowing insurance companies to deny coverage to as many as 267,000 individuals, including up to 32,000 children, with pre-existing conditions. Rescinding consumer protections for 355,000 individuals who have health insurance through their employer or the market for private insurance. Eliminating health care tax credits for up to 12,300 small businesses and 180,000 families. Increasing prescription drug costs for 9,100 seniors who hit the Part D drug “donut hole” and denying new preventive care benefits to 109,000 seniors. Increasing the costs of early retiree coverage for up to 9,800 early retirees. Eliminating new health care coverage options for 2,100 uninsured young adults. Increasing the number of people without health insurance by 35,000 individuals. Increasing the costs to hospitals of providing uncompensated care by $11 million annually. ###
01.19.2011	(Washington, DC)- Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) was reappointed today to serve on the House Armed Services Committee. The House Armed Services Committee retains jurisdiction of all subjects listed in clause 1(c) of rule X of the Rules of the House of Representatives and retains exclusive jurisdiction for: defense policy generally, ongoing military operations, the organization and reform of the Department of Defense and Department of Energy, counter-drug programs, acquisition and industrial base policy, technology transfer and export controls, joint interoperability, the Cooperative Threat Reduction program, Department of Energy nonproliferation programs, and detainee affairs and policy. Ryan was a member of the powerful Armed Services Committee during the last round of Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC) hearings, the process that the Pentagon used to identify military bases for closing. In cooperation with the local community, Ryan used his seat to protect the Youngstown Air Reserve Station from closure, protecting 2,000 full and part time jobs and an annual investment of $100 million into the economy. “Our country buys one billion dollars worth of oil a day from oil producing countries that use that money to undermine America. Our nation’s military is the largest user of fossil fuels in the world and our reliance on foreign oil has become a major national security issue for America.” said Congressman Ryan. “This assignment gives me an ideal platform to not only continue my work to bring Defense industry jobs back to the 17th District, but will also allow me to help facilitate the integration of green technologies into the military and into mainstream America. As the military becomes more energy independent it will drive innovation and product development for the non-military markets as well. These investments will lead to thousands of new jobs being created in America. I will work hard to make sure those jobs are created in Northeast Ohio. I want our area to lead the green revolution just like we led the industrial revolution. We need to create wealth for our citizens. We can do that if these new products are not only invented in Ohio, but more importantly manufactured and produced here. ” In the fall of 2010, Ryan worked with the Youngstown-Warren and Great Akron Chambers of Commerce to do a tour of the district’s educational and industrial capabilities for prime defense contractors. The tour highlighted regional research and development, commercialization and innovative technologies from Youngstown State University, Kent State University, the University of Akron, NEOUCOM, the Youngstown Business Incubator, the Akron Business Accelerator, and a number of local business partners. Congressman Ryan will be serving on Emerging Threats and Capabilities and Readiness Subcommittees on the House Armed Services Committee. Readiness Subcommittee is responsible for the single largest account within DOD’s budget. It oversees military readiness, training, logistics and maintenance issues and programs, military construction, installations and family housing issues, and the BRAC process. It also oversees civilian personnel, energy security, and environmental issues that affect DOD. The Readiness Subcommittee makes sure that our troops are properly trained and their equipment is properly maintained so they can succeed in their missions, and that they have the facilities and services they deserve when they return home. Emerging Threats and Capabilities Subcommittee is responsible for overseeing counter-terrorism programs and initiatives and counterproliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Additionally, this subcommittee oversees U.S. Special Operations Forces, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), information technology and programs, force protection policy and oversight, and related intelligence support. It makes sure that our nation is protected against terrorist attacks and unconventional threats. ###
01.19.2011	(Washington, DC)- Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) joined colleagues in sending a letter to President Obama, urging him to address unfair trade practices with Chinese President Hu Jintao during this week’s official visit. “We must send a clear message that these deceptive trade practices will not be tolerated,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Every time China artificially devalues its currency, the American steel industry is placed in a difficult position to compete, and it’s time we’re on a level playing field.” On September 23, 2010, the House approved the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act (HR 2378), a bill authored by Congressman Ryan, by an overwhelming and bipartisan vote of 348 to 79. Though the Senate failed to pass the measure before the end of the 111th Congress, Ryan intends to push anew for passage in the 112th Congress. The text of the letter is below the fold. ### The PresidentThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: When you meet with Chinese President Hu Jintao, we urge you to make clear on behalf of the American steel industry that China’s illegal trade practices will no longer be tolerated. As members of the Congressional Steel Caucus, we ask that your discussions include China’s continued violations of trade law — such as dumping of steel pipe and plate, renewable energy product subsidies, and currency manipulation — because they are decimating the ability of the American steel industry to compete on a level playing field. It is estimated that China is artificially devaluing its currency by as much as 40 percent, giving its own exports a government subsidy and in effect taxing American-made imports. This policy costs the U.S. upwards of 2.5 million manufacturing jobs and a staggering trade deficit of as much as $283 billion. Last June, China announced they would allow their currency to appreciate, but since then, they have restricted the Yuan’s growth to a paltry and unacceptable 3.1 percent. The time has come to insist on immediate action, and not more empty promises. Drawing on the support of American manufacturing, Congress expressed its own intent to force China to allow the Yuan to reflect an exchange rate set by the open market. On September 23, 2010, the House approved the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act (HR 2378) by an overwhelming, bipartisan vote of 348 to 79. This vote is a powerful marker for where Congress and the American public believe the trading relationship with China currently stands. We also hope you will emphasize other areas where China has violated international trade law. China’s government has repeatedly unfairly and illegally dumped and subsidized steel plate, pipe, and other products, causing U.S. steel producers, workers, and other industries to petition the International Trade Commission for relief. China’s state-owned Anshan Iron and Steel Group made a troubling investment in U.S. steel plants that we continue to believe will give China a beachhead to exploit the American steel market, lead to a loss of American jobs, and jeopardize our national security. China must know once and for all that American patience for its unfair and illegal trade practices, and its exploitative and anticompetitive policies, has run out. Beijing’s intransigence is placing our trading relationship on ever-perilous ground. Steel made in America supports 1.2 million jobs, adds $350 billion to our national economy, and has built America and the world. These are jobs that make steel, supply the resources to make steel, and make things out of steel — from the smallest medical device to skyscrapers to satellites. But these jobs and the families who depend on them are all at risk unless we stand up for steel. We hope you will do so without qualification when you meet with President Hu. Sincerely, Michael H. Michaud Thaddeus McCotter Gary Ackerman Robert Aderholt Jason Altmire Rob Andrews Steve Austria John Barrow Sanford Bishop Leonard Boswell Robert Brady Dan Burton Shelley Moore Capito Michael Capuano Hansen Clarke Howard Coble John Conyers Jerry Costello Chip Cravaack Rick Crawford Mark Critz Peter Defazio Rosa Delauro John Dingell Joe Donnelly Mike Doyle Sam Farr Bob Filner Barney Frank Gene Green Brian Higgins Maurice Hinchey Hank Johnson Walter Jones Marcy Kaptur Dale Kildee Larry Kissell Steven Latourette Daniel Lipinski David Loebsack Stephen Lynch Donald Manzullo Patrick McHenry Mike McIntyre David McKinley Brad Miller Candice Miller Chris Murphy Sue Myrick William Owens Franke Pallone Gary Peters Chellie Pingree Ted Poe Nick Rahall Reid Ribble Harold Rogers Mike Rogers (Al) Dana Rohrabacher Dennis Ross Mike Ross Lucille Roybal-Allard Bobby Rush Tim Ryan John Sarbanes Brad Sherman John Shimkus Heath Shuler Louise Slaughter Steve Stivers Betty Sutton Lee Terry Mike Turner Peter Visclosky Maxine Waters Peter Welch Frank Wolf Lynn Woolsey Rush Holt Todd Platts Linda Sanchez Joe Courtney Jim McGovern
01.18.2011	(Warren, OH)- Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) praised the recent announcement that the West Warren Industrial Partnership (WWIP), a public-private economic development partnership, is set to install a wind-testing tower in a targeted growth area of the city. The meteorology tower – known as a MET tower and smaller than a full-blown wind turbine tower—will test wind velocities for a full year. If the results show that a turbine tower is feasible, plans would be made to construct an energy-generating tower. “This project brings together environmental awareness, neighborhood revitalization and business development,” said Congressman Ryan. “Green energy is the future of our country and can create jobs to turn around the economy - I look forward to seeing similar projects commence in our region.” The hope is a wind-power installation would provide clean energy to businesses near the tower and encourage other “green energy” projects in the Mahoning Valley. WWIP is one of three entities (the other two being the cities of Greenfield and Solon) to successfully attain grants in a competitive process through the Ohio Anemometer Program (ALP). The total cost of the MET tower and following study is expected to be between $55,000 and $60,000. To qualify for the grant, WWIP had to secure $7,500 in matching funds. Construction of the test tower will begin on January 17th, with an expected completion date on January 19th. ###
01.13.2011	(Warren, OH) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement after the draft of five University of Akron soccer players to Major League Soccer, earlier this afternoon: “After an amazing Championship season, I am proud to learn that five members of the University of Akron soccer team were drafted so highly in this year’s MLS draft,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Coach Porter and his staff have worked hard to bring such a fine team together, and I wish them all the best in the future.” ###
01.10.2011	(Warren, OH) – In response to multiple requests for information regarding security, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) released the following statement: “It is important to remember that the House of Representatives remains the “People’s House” and that Congressman Ryan will continue to be accessible to his constituents. However, in the light of this weekend’s tragedy in Arizona, we are re-evaluating our security needs in order to ensure the safety of the Congressman, staff members, and constituents. All appropriate actions will be taken in private offices and at public meetings and events. Additionally, Congressman Ryan will be attending a meeting with other Members and the House Sergeant-At-Arms this week to review existing security and consider possible changes.” # # #
01.08.2011	(Warren, OH) – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) released the following statement on the shooting of Arizona Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords: “I am shocked and saddened by today’s senseless act of violence,” stated Congressman Ryan. “My thoughts and prayers are with Congresswoman Giffords, her husband and family, as well as her staff, the other victims of this tragedy, and all of their families. Gabby is a friend and a great advocate for the state of Arizona. It is unthinkable that such a talented and committed Representative should come under attack while serving her constituents. Today is a sad day, indeed.” # # #
01.07.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), a member of the House Budget Committee, made the following statement regarding cuts to Pell Grants, a post-secondary educational Federal grant sponsored by the U.S. Department of Education, in the passage of the Republican-supported Appropriations Act (HR 1), last week: “House Republicans have truly put America’s workforce and families last when it comes to higher education. Over 9 million students in our country depend on this aid, and now they’ll see their benefits reduced tremendously. If we are serious about real economic development and wealth creation, then our workforce needs to be competitive by putting more students in classrooms. It’s not rocket science-- it’s common sense.” Pell Grants are targeted toward students from low-income families. According to the U.S. PIRG, next school year, a student currently receiving the $5,550 maximum award would see their aid dropped to $4,705. By 2017 students would see a $2,090 cut to the currently projected maximum award of $6,105. The Republican-supported Appropriations Act reduces the average pell grant award by $670 in Ohio. -30-
01.07.2011	(Washington, DC) – On Tuesday, January 4, the U.S. Department of Commerce issued its final determinations in the antidumping and countervailing duty investigations on imports of Chinese steel drill pipe. The International Trade Commission (ITC) held its final hearing case on the subject on Wednesday, January 5, at which Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) provided testimony. The final ITC vote on these is scheduled for February 7, where it will be determined if the recommended duties will be enacted. “The substantial increase in duties as recommended by Commerce clearly indicates the negative impact that China’s unfair trade practices have on the American drill pipe industry,” stated Congressman Ryan. “An affirmative decision by the ITC will help to level the playing field for our manufacturers and provide significant benefit to the U.S. economy. A strong manufacturing sector is critical to our economic rebound; for every manufacturing job created, up to six spinoff jobs are added to the local and regional workforce.” “This ruling is another step forward for American manufacturers,” added Doug Fields, President of VAM Drilling of Houston. “If the U.S. economy is going to continue to recover, we need this Administration and Congress to continue working to create a level playing field for our products. We appreciate the support that we’ve gotten to date and look forward to ultimately prevailing with the International Trade Commission.” VAM Drilling is a sister company to Youngstown’s V&M Steel, who makes the casings used by VAM in their production process. Following is the text of Congressman Ryan’s prepared statement for the ITC: “Good Morning, Chairman Okun and Members of the Commission. I would like to convey in written form my sentiments regarding a case that is so vital to the rejuvenation of the economy in the state of Ohio and the creation of jobs in my Congressional district. First, please accept my sincere appreciation for the work you have done thus far, particularly in both the OCTG and Seamless Pipe from China cases. As you recall, executives from V&M Star have stated before the Commission that their decision to invest in a new pipe mill in Ohio would be dependent upon their assessment of market conditions, their ability to make a return on their investment, and enforcement of our trade laws. After your affirmative vote in the OCTG case, V&M Star announced a $650 million investment on a new Greenfield seamless pipe mill in Youngstown, Ohio. This investment was the single largest venture in Youngstown in over a century. A recent article in The New York Times noted that Youngstown had lost 60% of its population in the last 50 years and that 40% of all homes in the city were vacant. These troubling figures serve to underscore the importance of job creation and retention in Ohio generally and my district in particular. Mayor Jay Williams has done a tremendous job in leveraging the city’s limited resources to revitalize downtown Youngstown. Notwithstanding the above, there is still much work to be done, and this is why we are encouraged by the new V&M Star seamless pipe plant in Youngstown. The workforce is readily available to meet V&M Star’s demands and to enable the company to meet its goal—fully expanded operation—for the fourth quarter of 2011. In September 2010, Skip Herald, Managing Director of V&M Americas, stated before this Commission that the planned output for the new plant is 75% OCTG, 15% seamless pipe and 10% unfinished drill pipe. V&M Star has further informed me that smaller diameter tubing will be produced at both the current Youngstown large diameter plant (oil country casing) and the new plant. This smaller diameter tubing has the very thick walls that are used to produce unfinished drill pipe, which will undergo its final production step at V&M Star’s Houston, Texas plant. Of particular note is the fact that the new plant is expected to directly employ 350 new workers, some of whom will be from my district. This is an exciting development, as every new job in Ohio contributes to the well-being and advancement of our families, communities and businesses. In addition, V&M Star has pledged to consider expanding its melt shop, an investment of several hundred million dollars. Clearly, unfair trade practices may cause a shortfall in the company’s ability to fully utilize the capacity of the new pipe mill; such a reality may make the investment in expanding the melt shop less likely, a detrimental effect. I deeply respect the Commission’s work. You have found in the past that the Chinese seamless pipe industry, including producers of OCTG and seamless pipe, are part of a massive, overbuilt Chinese industry supported by subsidies from the Chinese government. You have found in two previous cases that massive Chinese overcapacity poses a considerable threat to U.S. producers. I understand from industry members that the amount of overcapacity of the Chinese seamless pipe industry to produce drill pipe is even greater than that of OCTG and seamless pipe. For the sake of a level playing field conducive to growth, I ask that you again find that imports from China injure or threaten to injure the U.S. drill pipe industry. Such a finding will attract investment and revive domestic manufacturing in my Congressional district and beyond. Thank you very much.” # # #
01.07.2011	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) released the following statement today after the Department of Labor released its December 2010 Jobs Report. Last month, the private sector grew for the 12th straight month and the economy added 103,000 jobs. Additionally, the unemployment rate dropped to 9.4 percent – the lowest rate in 19 months. “Today’s numbers are encouraging,” stated Congressman Ryan. “Last year, the Democratic Congress worked hard to pass landmark legislation that has stabilized our economy and supported American small businesses. Still, far too many of our citizens remain unable to find work, and we must continue to focus all of our efforts on creating jobs and strengthening the middle class.”
01.06.2011	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement at the end of ODOT Director Jolene Molitoris’s appointment: "A Mahoning Valley native and fellow graduate of Warren JFK, Jolene Molitoris broke numerous gender barriers on her rise to become the first female director of the Ohio Department of Transportation," stated Congressman Ryan. "A true collaborator and proponent of sustainable, multi-modal transportation, Jolene's remarkable career speaks for itself. She made crucial investments to the transportation system of Ohio, overseeing the largest construction project in Ohio history. She will be missed in the state - but I am certain that amazing things lie ahead for her." # # #
01.06.2011	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Tim Ryan made the following statement in light of a recent report by the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office report that projects a deficit increase of $230 billion by 2021 under the House Republicans’ plan to repeal health care reform: “Although the vote on health care repeal will be purely symbolic for House Republicans, the idea to move ahead despite these recent numbers is foolish.” said Congressman Ryan. “The American people did not have a $230 billion dollar addition to our deficit in mind when this new Congress started. Not only would this repeal blow a huge hole in the deficit, but it would increase what seniors would have to pay for prescriptions by 50 percent. It would make seniors come out of their own pockets for co-pays for preventative care when their budgets are already tight. It would allow insurance companies to deny coverage for people who have a pre-existing condition. It would discontinue health benefits for young adults under the age of 26 during a time when the career search is not as easy as it once was. This is fiscally irresponsible and will cause great pain to many of our seniors and young people." Read the full report here. # # #
01.06.2011	(Washington, DC) – This week, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) released the following letter to Governor-elect John Kasich outlining the economic revitalization of Northeast Ohio, and inviting Governor-elect Kasich for a local meeting. In the letter, Congressman Ryan emphasized the need to work together in order to address the serious issues facing Ohioans, and to continue the impressive progress that has been made by local agencies, universities, and corporations to advance the region and state. “We have worked hard to strengthen and diversify the regional economy, and we have seen great results,” said Congressman Ryan. “I hope to show Governor-elect Kasich the progress that has been made, and to work with him to direct good-paying jobs to Northeast Ohio, and continue our trajectory of success.” Below is the full text of the letter. # # # January 3, 2011 Governor-Elect John Kasich 340 East Gay Street Columbus, Ohio 43215 Dear Governor-Elect Kasich: As you carry on the transition to your new office, I wanted to take a moment to offer you my congratulations on becoming Ohio’s 63rd Governor. With the election behind us, I hope that we can work together to advance our shared vision for a stronger Ohio. In recent years, much progress has been made in strengthening and diversifying the economy of Northeast Ohio. Goodyear recently reaffirmed its commitment to the region by keeping its global headquarters in Akron. This announcement meant the retention of 3,500 jobs directly in the community and the construction of a 450,000 square foot facility that will spur retail, commercial and housing development. Additionally, a public-private-university partnership has established the Austen BioInnovation Institute in Akron (ABIA), a facility that has been designated as an Ohio Center of Excellence for Biomedicine and Healthcare. The ABIA’s mission is to accelerate translational research to biomedical commercialization as well as improve access, education, prevention, treatment and disease management. The institute is moving Akron toward a secure economic future, with a goal of creating 2,400 jobs within the next decade, and is a critical element of the City of Akron's Biomedical Corridor, a unique effort aimed at luring health-related ventures to the region. In Portage County, great progress has been made to transition the 20,000 acres of the former Ravenna Army Ammunition Plant to productive use by transforming the facility into a training center. Currently, Camp Ravenna has a total economic impact on the state and region of $23 million annually, with that number expected to grow as its training capacity and staffing levels increase. The Guard estimates that military personnel will spend an additional $15 million in the region annually when the facility is fully operational: bringing valuable dollars into the community’s restaurants, hotels and other service providers. The Mahoning Valley was recently recognized as having the highest manufacturing job growth in the nation at 8.9 percent, with the Cleveland MSA coming in second. This success is largely attributed to the recent expansion of the V&M Star facility in Youngstown and the deployment of the new Chevy Cruze from the General Motors Lordstown Complex. The Youngstown Business Incubator (YBI) continues to see both large and small successes, with the recent sale of Turning Technologies, a deal which will bring new capital to the company and enable its continued growth. YBI also recently announced that its portfolio company Accupoint Software closed its first two foreign sales. The firm's Interlink QES quality, environmental and safety solution technology has been selected by a gas and oil exploration firm headquartered in London. With the recent addition of Eastern Gateway Community College and the Tech Belt Energy Innovation Center, an advanced energy business incubator, the city of Warren continues the process of reinventing itself and restoring its historic downtown. The 17th congressional district is home to four major universities, all of which are not only working to provide a high tech workforce for the jobs of the new economy, but also developing new products, processes and technologies that can be spun off for commercial development. The University of Akron is a world leader in the study of polymers, Kent State University in liquid crystal technology and Youngstown State University in advanced materials. And, in addition to turning out doctors and pharmacists, NEOUCOM is conducting research on topics including tissue engineering, medical applications of biopolymers, normal and abnormal skeletal development, orthopedic diseases and cancer. If you would like to arrange a meeting, in which I can share with you firsthand the projects that are contributing to Northeastern Ohio’s rebirth, and to discuss our common goals and concerns, please contact me at (330) 373-0074. I look forward to the opportunity to work with you. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress (OH-17)
01.05.2011	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH 17) was sworn into the 112th Congress this afternoon by House Speaker John Boehner at the United States Capitol. Congressman Ryan reiterated his commitment to working with President Barack Obama and the House leadership to bring good jobs and investment back to the district. “I am honored to have been given the trust of my constituents to return to Washington D.C. and continue my work to bring jobs and investment back to the 17th Congressional District,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “I will respect the wishes of the voters and work hard to find common ground on issues that will move our country forward – ensuring that the 112th Congress maintains the progress made thus far in stabilizing our economy, as well as maintaining commitments to create wealth through continued investments in infrastructure, sustainable manufacturing, and the green economy. We must put partisan politics behind us and join forces for the good of this nation and its citizens; I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure that good-paying jobs come back to the hard-working men and women of this district.” ####
01.03.2011	Warren, OH – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) accepted Speaker-elect John Boehner’s invitation to join his escort committee for the official swearing-in ceremony on January 5, 2011. Congressman Ryan issued the following statement: “I thank Speaker-elect Boehner for this invitation, and I am pleased to join him as the House of Representatives swears in its first Speaker from Ohio since Nicholas Longworth, 85 years ago. As we begin the 112th Congress, I look forward to working with Speaker-elect Boehner to address the serious issues facing Ohioans. In this economic climate, Democrats and Republicans must come together to create an atmosphere that will encourage economic prosperity, create jobs, and restore faith in the American dream. I am committed to making that a reality.” -30-
12.16.2010	Rep. Ryan Applauds Health Care Tax Credit Extension Provisions Approved by House, Included in H.R. 6517 (Omnibus Trade Act) (Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) noted that the House approved the extension of the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) provisions by voice vote last night. Language extending the provisions was included in the Omnibus Trade Act (H.R. 6517). “In a difficult economy, the Health Coverage Tax Credit extension will provide security for individuals who lost their jobs, health coverage, and retirement security through no fault of their own,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “These folks earned their benefits, and have relied on HCTC provisions to get affordable, continuous coverage necessary to lead healthy lives, and I’m proud to help ensure that they continue to do so.” “I want to thank Congressman Ryan once again for his continued support of the Delphi Retires,” added Bruce Gump, Chairman of the Warren Legislative Group for the Delphi Salaried Retirees Association. “The inclusion of the extension of HCTC in H.R. 6517 is a huge step forward. It would not have been possible to get this far without the help of many, and especially the help of Congressmen Tim Ryan and Chris Lee in their recent letter. I encourage Senators Reid and McConnell to move this bill through the Senate with all expediency.” The following HCTC and Voluntary Employees' Beneficiary Association (VEBA) provisions have been extended for 18 months and will expire July 1, 2012: § The HCTC program will continue to pay 80 percent of qualified health premiums, with participants paying the remaining 20 percent; § Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) recipients and Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) payees will continue to be eligible for extensions of COBRA coverage; and § HCTC extended eligibility will continue for qualified family members of participants after certain events (i.e., participant has enrolled in Medicare, passed away, or finalized a divorce). The bill now heads to the Senate for approval. # # #
12.15.2010	Rep. Ryan Congratulates Frank Ruggiero on Appointment Youngstown Native now Special Representative to Afghanistan and Pakistan (Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) commended the appointment of Frank Ruggiero – Youngstown native and Ursuline High School graduate – as the acting special representative to Afghanistan and Pakistan. Richard C. Holbrooke, the previous special envoy to Afghanistan and Pakistan, passed away on Monday from complications from a torn aorta. Previously the top civilian official in southern Afghanistan, Ruggiero helped manage the plan to increase the number of non-military experts providing reconstruction and social service assistance to Afghan leaders. By installing him as Holbrooke’s successor, the Administration will tap directly into Ruggiero’s expertise in the political-military affairs of Afghanistan and the Middle East. “Our community continues to produce America’s best and brightest,” stated Congressman Ryan. “Frank Ruggiero is the most recent in a long line of successful natives – including CEOs of Fortune 500 companies, top college football coaches and professional athletes, astronauts, musicians, and now a high-ranking diplomat. Our children should not think for one second that they cannot achieve any position that is available – Frank Ruggiero has spent his career successfully navigating the complex waters of international relations, and as a result has been tapped to continue the exemplary work of his predecessor. Mr. Ruggiero is very deserving of this honor, and I wish him luck and in his new position.” # # #
12.14.2010	Rep. Ryan Pushes for Extension of Health Care Tax Credit (Washington, DC) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) and Congressman Chris Lee (NY-23) called for an extension of the Health Care Tax Credit as part of the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010. The full text of the letter is attached to this release. “In a struggling economy, these provisions have provided a lifeline to individuals who lost their jobs and health coverage as the result of trade-related business disruptions,” Reps. Ryan and Lee wrote. The letter continues, “They have also been critical to thousands of retirees who lost their health care along with their retirement security when the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC) assumed responsibility for their hard-earned pensions. This was most recently witnessed in the restructuring of the automotive industry, when thousands of Delphi retirees suffered severe reductions in their health care and pension benefits. These retirees have undeservedly endured the very worst in this restructuring. The extension of this tax credit will help these retirees as they struggle for financial security in their retirement.” # # # December 14, 2010 Sander M. Levin, Chairman Committee on Ways & Means1102 Longworth House Office BuildingWashington D.C. 20515 Dave Camp, Ranking Member Ways and Means Republican Office1139E Longworth House Office BuildingWashington D.C. 20515 We write to urge you to extend the current Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) provisions by including them in the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010. These provisions, which passed as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, must be extended before December 31, 2010, to prevent the catastrophic loss of health care assistance to thousands of current HCTC recipients. An extension of these provisions, which increases the level of the tax credit to cover 80 percent of the cost of qualifying coverage and deems coverage offered through a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association (VEBA) as qualifying coverage, would respond in a fiscally and socially responsible manner to our current economic conditions. Until the economic hardship eases, extending the HCTC provisions is a means of preventing increased caseloads in Medicaid and providing affordable, continuous health coverage to individuals who had their earned health benefits stripped from them. In a struggling economy, these provisions have provided a lifeline to individuals who lost their jobs and health coverage as the result of trade-related business disruptions. They have also been critical to thousands of retirees who lost their health care along with their retirement security when the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC) assumed responsibility for their hard-earned pensions. This was most recently witnessed in the restructuring of the automotive industry, when thousands of Delphi retirees suffered severe reductions in their health care and pension benefits. These retirees have undeservedly endured the very worst in this restructuring. The extension of this tax credit will help these retirees as they struggle for financial security in their retirement. The timing of these extensions is urgently important. Many HCTC-eligible individuals are in the midst of open enrollment periods or are otherwise required to make coverage decisions now, and those decisions depend heavily on the size of the HCTC and its applicability to VEBA coverage. For these reasons, we support providing an extension to the HCTC which would cover 80 percent of the cost of qualifying coverage and deem coverage offered through a VEBA as qualifying coverage. These provisions have bipartisan support and we therefore ask that you prevent retirees and displaced workers from losing their private health coverage. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Christopher Lee Member of Congress Member of Congress
12.07.2010	Congressman Ryan Addresses Proposed Extension of Bush-Era Tax Cuts (Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) addressed the President’s announcement regarding the proposed extension of Bush-era tax cuts: “The American people do not support a bonus tax cut for the top two percent,” stated Congressman Ryan. “Our citizens are concerned about the deficit and do not want to borrow money from working and middle class families in order to subsidize these reckless tax cuts. I’m for low business taxes – I’ve voted for 18 separate business tax breaks in the last two years alone – but once someone makes tens of millions of dollars because of the American business environment, it’s not too much to ask that they pay a reasonable tax rate. To whom much is given, much is required.” Ryan continued, “For decades, Republicans have pushed tax policies that consistently underwrite the wealth of Wall Street CEOs, while middle class families on Main Street foot the bill. Many of the folks receiving this tax cut are the same individuals who received taxpayer-funded bailouts after nearly wrecking the national economy, who annually earn multi-million dollar bonuses and have benefitted from the outsourcing of American jobs. All the while, middle class families have been stuck in the mud. President Obama believes that this ‘deal’ solves our problems without a partisan fight – but what we need right now is an honest debate about tax policies that will stimulate the economy, reduce income disparity, and most importantly, put money in the pockets of middle class families. These cuts for the wealthy will not achieve any of these goals.” Today, the United States faces its most unequal distribution of wealth since 1929. According to the Economic Policy Institute and the Institute for Policy Studies, American CEOs are paid an average of 262 times that of the average worker (in 1965, the pay rate was 24:1). Executive level pay has grown exponentially over the past few decades, while American workers are taking home less in real weekly wages than in the 1970s. Additionally, the top one percent of earners account for 24 percent of our nation’s income – up from nine percent of national income just 30 years ago. # # #
12.02.2010	Congressman Ryan Votes to Extend Tax Cuts for Middle Class Republicans Vote against Tax Cuts for 95 Percent of Americans (Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) voted for the Middle Class Tax Relief Act to permanently extend tax cuts for working and middle-class families. “Today’s vote clearly defines the ideological difference between Democrats and Republicans,” stated Congressman Ryan. “Our economy is in distress. Millions of Americans are out of work. Small businesses are struggling to turn cashflow and get credit. Today, House Democrats voted to put money directly into the pockets of the middle-class and small business owners – and House Republicans voted “NO” because the bill did not include bonus tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires. It is shameful that Republicans continue to hold working families hostage, pandering to very rich.” “Over the past 30 years, we have witnessed an unconscionable rise in income inequality in the United States – today, the top one percent of earners control 24 percent of national income. Wall Street bankers and CEOs are receiving multi-million dollar bonuses, but middle-class wages have stagnated. All the while, health care costs, energy costs, and tuition costs have risen exponentially. Trickle-down economics has nearly squeezed working families out of the American dream altogether.” The Middle Class Tax Relief Act of 2010 makes permanent the Bush-era tax cuts for individuals earning less than $200,000 and married couples earning less than $250,000 per year. Tax cuts that include benefits for the two percent of American taxpayers earning above the $200,000 individual/$250,000 household threshold would cost $40 billion in 2011 and $700 billion over 10 years ($1 trillion with interest added). Working class and middle-income families are more likely to spend the tax savings that they receive, adding demand to an ailing economy – while wealthy households are more likely to add the funds to their existing wealth, removing them from general circulation. In 2010, the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office issued a report detailing job creation and economic improvement strategies; tax cuts for high-earners were ranked as the most ineffective method to create job and spur economic activity. It is important to note that small businesses will not be negatively affected by allowing high-income tax cuts to expire. Only three percent of taxpayers filing small business income taxes report earnings in excess of $250,000 per year. Many of these businesses are not typical “small businesses”, but are law firms and real estate partnerships. Additionally, business owners are neither taxed on income used to pay employee wages, nor are they taxed on income that is reinvested in the business. # # #
11.18.2010	Congressman Ryan Statement on Unemployment Insurance Extension (Warren, OH) – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) made the following statement after House Republicans voted to block an extension of unemployment insurance: “With Ohio families working hard to make ends meet during this recession, House Republicans, led by Ohio’s John Boehner, chose party over country and voted against bringing money to the middle class,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “The irony here is that these members voted against this crucial investment for hardworking families, but insist on extending tax cuts for their wealthy friends. We’ve seen how this movie ends before, and the American people can’t afford a sequel.” # # #
10.27.2010	Congressman Ryan Applauds Tech Belt Innovation Center on New Home in Warren (Warren, OH) – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) applauded the Tech Belt Energy Innovation Center (TBEIC) on their new location: the Kresge Building on Courthouse Square in downtown Warren. This building will serve as the future home of the energy business incubator, and will provide resources and services to early-stage companies. “The Tech Belt Energy Innovation Center will be catalytic for this community,” stated Congressman Ryan. “By supporting entrepreneurship and innovation, this facility will create the environment that we need to generate ideas, wealth and jobs. The Mahoning Valley has a history of success in the automobile and steel industries; now we have the infrastructure to create that same kind of success in alternative energy.” TBEIC selected the Kresge Building because of its location in the heart of Warren’s business district and close proximity to the new Eastern Gateway Community College Warren Center (encouraging future co-op opportunities between students and TBEIC users), as well as the building’s ability to accommodate office space and technical facilities. Ryan, a member of the powerful U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Appropriations, was instrumental in the development of the project by securing $2.2 million for the “greening” of the facility in FY2010 federal appropriations legislation. Through the efforts of Governor Ted Strickland and State Senator Capri Cafaro, $500,000 was also allocated in FY2008 by the State of Ohio to purchase the building. “This project represents a tremendous partnership between the federal and state governments to reinvest in our older, urban cores and to jumpstart our economy. Without the leadership of Governor Ted Strickland and State Senator Capri Cafaro, there would be no money to purchase the building and allow this project to move forward,” stated Ryan. “Additionally, Governor Strickland’s promotion of aggressive advanced energy policies, as well as his administration’s prioritized investment in energy technology and job creation, has positioned Ohio as the #1 State for Renewable and Advanced Energy Manufacturing. We are already seeing the results of these strategic advanced energy investments in Northeastern Ohio – transforming our manufacturing heritage into a green manufacturing future, and creating an environment that will generate ideas, wealth, and jobs for our residents.” Congressman Ryan also commended Youngstown State University and Dr. Cynthia Anderson for their involvement in the project as fiscal agent for both the state and federal funding. “While it’s important for our political leadership to secure funding for projects, it’s equally important to have a strong local partner to administer the funding and to help shape the vision for the facility,” the Congressman said. “YSU is to be commended for stepping up to the plate to help make this project happen.” YSU President Dr. Cynthia Anderson added, “YSU is pleased to be a partner on the development of the TechBelt Energy Innovation Center. We are looking forward to working with TBEIC to create opportunities for our students and faculty to become engaged in the entrepreneurial work of creating new energy technologies for the 21st century, and bringing high quality jobs to the Mahoning Valley.” # # #
10.17.2010	New Resources Announced for Ohio’s Small Businesses (Warren, OH) – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), announced that the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010, signed by President Obama last month, provides critical resources to help Ohio’s small businesses continue to drive economic recovery and create jobs. The new law extends the U.S. Small Business Association (SBA) Recovery loans while offering billions more in lending support and tax breaks for entrepreneurs and small business owners. “Small businesses are the backbone of the American economy,” stated Congressman Ryan. “This is exactly the type of legislation that we need in order create the jobs and economic growth that will return this country to prosperity. I am proud to have supported this legislation, and am outraged by the complete failure of Republicans to provide any kind of support to American small businesses. We can debate economic policy indefinitely – but in the end, actions speak louder than words. Doing nothing is simply not an option. Putting small businesses in a position to employ American men and women should be a higher priority than partisan politics.” The bill extends successful SBA Recovery Act provisions, and will restart the SBA's Recovery lending, beginning with the more than 1,300 small businesses that have been waiting to get the credit they need, with thousands more benefiting in the coming weeks. It also includes eight new tax cuts specifically for small businesses – all of which are effective today, and applying to small business taxes for 2010 – providing an immediate incentive for these businesses to make new investments and expand. For example: If you are a small business and you buy new equipment, you can immediately write off the first $500,000 of your investments; If you are one of over one million eligible small businesses, key long-term investments in your company will be subject to zero capital gains taxes; If you are an entrepreneur and take a chance on a new idea, you can deduct the first $10,000 of your start-up costs; If you are self employed you can deduct 100 percent of the cost of health insurance for you and your family from your self-employment taxes. Specific provisions of the law include: New Law Puts More Capital in the Hands of Entrepreneurs and Small Business Owners SBA Enhanced Loan Provisions - $14 billion more in lending support The law extends SBA loan provisions (with the 90% guarantee and reduced fees) through Dec. 31. The $505 million for Jobs Act loans will support about $14 billion in overall small business lending. In the first week of the Jobs Act, SBA provided nearly 2,000 loans totaling nearly $1 billion in lending support. Higher Loan Limits - significantly increases maximum loan sizes in top loan programs The law permanently increases 7(a) and 504 limits from $2 million to $5 million (for manufacturers in 504 loan program, up to $5.5 million). The law permanently increases microloan limits from $35,000 to $50,000, helping larger entrepreneurs with start-up costs and small business owners in underserved communities. Alternative Size Standards - more small businesses eligible to get SBA loans The law expands the number of small businesses eligible for SBA loans by increasing the alternate size standard to those with less than $15 million in net worth and $5 million in average net income. Temporary Enhancements to Help with Working Capital, Commercial Real Estate Refinancing The law will increase maximum amount of SBA Express loans from $350,000 to $1 million (expires 9/27/2011). In coming months, the law will allow some small businesses to refinance their owner-occupied commercial real estate mortgages into the 504 loan program (expires 9/27/2012). Dealer Floor Plan Pilot Extension, Expansion The pilot program (begun 2009) will be extended to 2013. Though the old pilot has expired, the new, larger pilot will be implemented in coming months. This will help small businesses owners who sell cars, RVs, boats, other titleable inventory. Small Business Intermediary Lending Pilot In six to twelve months, the law will provide for funding up to $20 million per year in small business loans over the next three years for an intermediary-facilitated loan program targeting small businesses that need loans up to $200,000. New Law Strengthens Small Businesses' Ability to Compete for Contracts, Including Recommendations from the President's Task Force on Federal Contracting Opportunities for Small Business Equal Treatment across Federal Contracting Programs The law reaffirms "parity" among federal small business contracting programs. When conducting contracts that are set-aside for small businesses, contracting officers are free to choose among businesses owned by women and service-disabled veterans, as well as businesses participating in HUBZone programs and 8(a) programs. Better Playing Field for Small Businesses - more accountability, integrity, transparency The law gives agency procurement officers more ability to provide both large prime contracts and mircocontracts to small businesses. The law has stronger enforcement so agencies will be held more accountable for reaching small business goals. The law makes it harder for agencies to "bundle" contracts, a practice that often takes opportunities away from small business. The law eliminated the Competitiveness Demonstration program, a program which limited opportunities for small business contractors in about 10 industries where they excel, with over $24 billion in contracting in FY09. The law enforces stronger subcontracting plan requirements for large prime contractors to ensure small businesses are utilized in subcontracting. It also discourages late payments to small subcontractors. The law enforces SBA's continuing efforts to combat fraud, waste, and abuse. Federal agencies, including the Department of Justice, will have more ability to vigorously pursue companies that win contracts by misrepresenting their small business status. Small Business Teaming Opportunities The law provides $25 million for a new pilot that provides grants that will help small businesses team up with each other to compete for larger and more complex federal government contracts. New Law Promotes Small Business Exporting, Building on the President's National Export Initiative · Export Express Pilot Becomes Permanent o The law turns the Export Express pilot loan program into a permanent program with 90% guarantees for loans up to $350,000 and 75% for loans between $350,000 and $500,000. State Trade and Export Promotion Grants Pilot In coming months, the law will provide $90 million in competitive grants over next three years for states to help small business owners with exporting. Increased Staff and Strengthened Export Counseling Resources. Law Expands Training and Counseling: Major Investment in Counseling and Training In coming months, the law will provide $50 million in grants available to Small Business Development Centers. More Opportunities in Export Counseling (see above) New Law Provides $12 Billion in Tax Relief to Help Small Businesses Invest in their Firms, Create Jobs Extension, Expansion of Tax Cuts - 8 Small Business Tax Cuts The highest small business expensing limit ever, of $500,000 Carry-back provisions on net operating losses of up to 5 years Accelerated/bonus depreciation Zero capital gains taxes for those who invest in small businesses Increased deductions for start-ups Deductions for employer-provided cell phones Deductions for health insurance costs for the self-employed Limitations on penalties for errors in tax reporting that disproportionately affect small business Treasury Department Provisions Small Business Lending Fund - $30 billion The law will provide smaller community banks with low-cost capital (as low as 1%) if they go above and beyond 2009 small business lending levels. Establishes State Small Business Credit Initiative The law will provide up to $1.5 billion to support state-run small business lending programs. For more detailed information on the Small Business Jobs Act, go to www.sba.gov/jobsact ###
10.13.2010	Congressman Ryan Tours Aesir Metals (Warren, OH) – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), member of the House Appropriations Committee and Subcommittee on Defense Appropriations, was in Struthers today to tour Aesir Metals. He was joined by Aesir Metals’ co-founders Sarah Jordan and Mark DeBruin. Founded in 2009, Aesir Metals has developed an innovative casting technique that aims to streamline prototype manufacturing. At this facility, Aesir Metals’ focus is on prototypes, short to medium runs, and replacement parts made of iron or steel using the lost foam casting process. This technique eliminates the need for other costs such as machining and heat treating. “Small business innovation is why the U.S. remains a world leader in manufacturing, in spite of the unfair trade practices of countries like China,” stated Congressman Ryan. “Aesir has figured out how to use Styrofoam and sand in its casting process to create needed shapes. Through this unique process, they are able to cut time and wasted materials out of the production cycle by largely eliminating machining, welding and grinding. It is exactly this kind of forward thinking that has enabled the Mahoning Valley to lead the nation in manufacturing job creation." Aesir Metals has supplied products to a variety of companies from a range of commercial sectors such as defense, agriculture, and transportation. The company is located in the CASTLO Industrial Park in Struthers, Ohio. For additional information, please visit their website https://www.aesirmetals.com/. ###
09.29.2010	U.S. House Passes Rep. Ryan’s Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act (Washington, DC) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) applauded passage of his legislation, the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act (H.R. 2378), in the U.S House of Representatives by a vote of 348-79. This far-reaching, bipartisan legislation has been supported by legislators, manufacturers, union officials and members across the country. The bill must now be approved by the U.S. Senate and signed by the President before it becomes law. “I’ve spent nearly six years pushing to get this bipartisan bill passed, and today’s vote sends a strong signal to the U.S. manufacturing industry that Congress will NOT give up fighting on behalf of American jobs,” stated Congressman Ryan. “If this risks upsetting the People’s Republic of China, so be it. Whether you’re a Democrat or a Republican, a liberal or a conservative – millions of good-paying jobs have been lost and hundreds of thousands of families across this country have suffered as a result of China’s unlawful trade policies. With this bill, we take one more step towards bringing currency manipulators to justice and providing support for American manufacturers and everyone who continues to invest in the American dream.” The Congressman’s comments on the House floor today are available online. To celebrate passage of the bill, Congressman Ryan also held a bipartisan press conference today with House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander Levin (MI-12) and Reps. Tim Murphy (PA-18), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Don Manzullo (IL-16), Peter Welch (VT-At Large), Betty Sutton (OH-13), Jason Altmire (PA-04), Mike Rogers (MI-08), John Boccieri (OH-16), Kathy Dahlkemper (PA-03), and Tom Perriello (VA-05). H.R. 2378 The Currency Reform Fair Trade Act (H.R. 2378) was introduced to protect American manufacturers from currency misalignment. H.R. 2378, which does not single out any one country in particular, directs the U.S. Department of Commerce to treat currency undervaluation as a prohibited export subsidy. When any foreign government deliberately undervalues its currency, the U.S. government can respond by imposing reasonable countervailing duties or antidumping measures. The bill was introduced in May 2009 and currently has 159 co-sponsors. China’s Currency Manipulation According to the International Monetary Fund, the U.S. Treasury Department, and the congressionally-chartered U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, as well as many noted economists, China’s currency, the Renminbi (RMB), is significantly undervalued—as much as 40 percent by some accounts. The protracted undervaluation of the RMB by the People’s Republic of China contributes significantly to China’s large trade imbalance with the U.S., makes China’s exports to the U.S. artificially cheaper than if China allowed its currency to appreciate to its true level, makes U.S. exports to China artificially more expensive in the Chinese market, and hampers U.S. competitiveness in third-country markets where U.S. exports go head-to-head with Chinese exports for sales. At the same time, dollar investments made in China receive an artificial bonus, promoting the outsourcing of American production and jobs. As a result, products made in America have been undercut by Chinese goods, which are effectively subsidized by the Chinese government’s policy of manipulating the value of its currency. In an apparent effort to deflect the demands of its trading partners, Beijing announced it was revaluing the RMB a few days before the opening of the G-20 summit in June 2010. Since that time, however, the RMB has appreciated less than one percent on a nominal basis. China’s contravention of established trade laws has imposed significant hardship on American manufacturers and workers and continues to imperil our economic recovery. Economist Paul Krugman has written that China’s “is the most distortionary exchange rate policy any major nation has ever followed.” Fred Bergsten of the Peterson Institute for International Economics believes that resolution of this issue could create as many as 1 million American jobs. A report by the Economic Policy Institute concluded that between 2001 and 2008, 2.4 million jobs were lost and thousands of workers were displaced in every U.S. congressional district as a result of China’s currency manipulation and unfair trade policies. # # #
09.24.2010	House Committee Moves Forward With Ryan Fair Trade Bill H.R. 2378 Receives Full Bi-Partisan Support of House Ways and Means Committee (Washington, DC) – Congressman Ryan (OH-17) announced that the House Ways and Means Committee voted today in favor of an amended version of the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act (H.R. 2378), legislation that he co-sponsored with Congressman Tim Murphy (PA-18). Today’s committee action ensures that all provisions of this far-reaching, bi-partisan legislation are consistent with World Trade Organization provisions. The amended bill passed committee without objection via voce and will be scheduled for consideration by the full House of Representatives as early as next week. “Today’s bipartisan committee decision sends a strong signal to currency manipulators who seek to undercut the American manufacturing industry,” stated Congressman Ryan. “Manufacturing is the foundation of our economy and we need to increase manufacturing in the U.S. For every manufacturing job that is created, up to six additional jobs are spun off. This bill will provide tremendous relief to small and mid-size manufacturers all over Ohio and the nation. It is not fair to ask these companies to compete against a Communist country that is cheating. This bill takes on unfair practices of other countries and will help save manufacturing jobs in the U.S.” H.R. 2378 The Currency Reform Fair Trade Act (H.R. 2378) was introduced to protect American manufacturers from currency misalignment. H.R. 2378, which does not single out any one country in particular, directs the U.S. Department of Commerce to treat currency undervaluation as a prohibited export subsidy. When any foreign government deliberately undervalues its currency, the U.S. government can respond by imposing reasonable countervailing duties or antidumping measures. The bill was introduced in May 2009 and currently has 155 co-sponsors. China’s Currency Manipulation According to the International Monetary Fund, the U.S. Treasury Department, and the congressionally-chartered U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, as well as many noted economists, China’s currency, the Renminbi (RMB), is significantly undervalued—as much as 40 percent by some accounts. The protracted undervaluation of the RMB by the People’s Republic of China contributes significantly to China’s large trade imbalance with the U.S., makes China’s exports to the U.S. artificially cheaper than if China allowed its currency to appreciate to its true level, makes U.S. exports to China artificially more expensive in the Chinese market, and hampers U.S. competitiveness in third-country markets where U.S. exports go head-to-head with Chinese exports for sales. At the same time, dollar investments made in China receive an artificial bonus, promoting the outsourcing of American production and jobs. As a result, products made in America have been undercut by Chinese goods, which are effectively subsidized by the Chinese government’s policy of manipulating the value of its currency. In an apparent effort to deflect the demands of its trading partners, Beijing announced it was revaluing the RMB a few days before the opening of the G-20 summit in June 2010. Since that time, however, the RMB has appreciated less than one percent on a nominal basis. China’s contravention of established trade laws has imposed significant hardship on American manufacturers and workers and continues to imperil our economic recovery. Economist Paul Krugman has written that China’s “is the most distortionary exchange rate policy any major nation has ever followed.” Fred Bergsten of the Peterson Institute for International Economics believes that resolution of this issue could create as many as 1 million American jobs. A report by the Economic Policy Institute concluded that between 2001 and 2008, 2.4 million jobs were lost and thousands of workers were displaced in every U.S. congressional district as a result of China’s currency manipulation and unfair trade policies. # # #
09.22.2010	Congressman Ryan Announces SAFER Grant for City of Warren $5 Million Grant to Bring Back 11 Firefighters, Provide Funding for 13 Additional Hires (Warren, OH) – Today, Congressman Ryan (OH-17) announced $5 million allocated to the City of Warren through the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program of the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Funding is set aside for the rehiring and recruitment of firefighters, covering 100 percent of wages and benefits for two years with no match necessary. These needed funds will allow the City of Warren to bring back 11 laid-off firefighters and hire 13 additional firefighters that were not replaced after retirements – bringing total staffing figures at the Warren Fire Department to 74. “This is great news for the City of Warren – especially for the firefighters and their families who will return to work as a result of this funding,” stated Congressman Ryan. “We have all been affected by layoffs in our community. Through working to adjust the guidelines of the SAFER grant program, I am proud to have played a part in changing the economic trajectory of this city for the better. Today’s announcement is about putting our people back to work so that they can put food on the table, send their kids to school, and share in the American dream.” During the Fiscal Year 2009 Appropriations process, Congressman Ryan worked with the Homeland Security subcommittee to give greater priority in awarding SAFER grants to communities and fire departments that have suffered from the highest levels of unemployment and budget constraints. After working with Chairman Price and Committee staff, Congressman Ryan was able to get language inserted in the Fiscal Year 2009 Homeland Security Appropriations Report. The specific language states, “The Committee urges FEMA to consider the prospect and occurrence of firefighter layoffs at a local fire department when evaluating SAFER grant applications.” City of Warren Mayor Michael O’Brien stated, “Like so many cities across the United States, Warren is facing difficult budget challenges. I am proud of Congressman Ryan’s leadership to address problems with the language of the SAFER grant program. As a result of his hard work, the City is now able to rehire essential safety personnel – allowing us to vastly improve our emergency response with minimal affect on the General Fund.” “This achievement is the result of much work on behalf of our local firemen,” said fireman and Local 204 President Marc Titus. “Just 18 months ago, SAFER guidelines did not allow funding to be used to rehire laid-off firefighters, only to hire additional firefighters. But thanks to the strong leadership of Congressman Tim Ryan, the SAFER guidelines were changed and signed into law. Layoffs devastate communities, and with this grant we are able to address hiring in the Warren Fire Department and move toward a brighter future for our city.” The SAFER program was created to provide funding directly to professional and volunteer fire departments in order to help them increase the number of trained, "front-line" firefighters available in their communities. The goal of SAFER is to enhance the local departments' abilities to comply with staffing, response and operational standards established by the NFPA and OSHA. For additional information, visit https://www.firegrantsupport.com/content/html/safer/. # # #
09.21.2010	The Honorable Nancy Pelosi The Honorable John Boehner H-232, US Capitol H-204 US Capitol Washington, DC Washington, DC The Honorable Steny Hoyer The Honorable Eric Cantor H-107, US Capitol H-329 US Capitol Washington, DC Washington, DC The Honorable Sander Levin The Honorable Dave Camp Chairman, Committee on Ways and Means Ranking Member, Ways and Means 1102 Longworth Building 1139E Longworth Building Washington, DC Washington, DC To the House Leadership: We the undersigned Members urge you to bring H.R. 2378, Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act, to a vote before the full House. H.R. 2378 would direct the U.S. Department of Commerce to treat currency undervaluation as a prohibited subsidy, allowing for the imposition of countervailing or antidumping duties on injurious imports from any country that persistently undervalues its currency. The bill has been written to be consistent with U.S. rights and obligations under the agreements of the World Trade Organization and the International Monetary Fund. According to the International Monetary Fund,[1] the U.S. Treasury Department,[2] and the congressionally-chartered U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission,[3] as well as many noted economists, China’s currency, the Renminbi (RMB), is significantly undervalued—as much as 40 percent by some accounts.[4] The protracted undervaluation of the RMB by the People’s Republic of China contributes significantly to China’s large trade imbalance with the U.S., makes China’s exports to the U.S. artificially cheaper than if China allowed its currency to appreciate to its true level, makes U.S. exports to China artificially more expensive in the Chinese market, and hampers U.S. competitiveness in third-country markets where U.S. exports go head-to-head with Chinese exports for sales. At the same time, dollar investments made in China receive an artificial bonus, promoting the outsourcing of American production and jobs. As a result, products made in America have been undercut by Chinese goods, which are effectively subsidized by the Chinese government’s policy of manipulating the value of its currency. In an apparent effort to deflect the demands of its trading partners, Beijing announced it was revaluing the RMB a few days before the opening of the G-20 summit in late June. Since that time, however, the RMB has appreciated less than one percent on a nominal basis. China’s contravention of established trade laws has imposed significant hardship on American manufacturers and workers and continues to imperil our economic recovery. Economist Paul Krugman has written that China’s “is the most distortionary exchange rate policy any major nation has ever followed.” [5] Fred Bergsten of the Peterson Institute for International Economics believes that resolution of this issue could create as many as 1 million American jobs.[6] A report by the Economic Policy Institute concluded that between 2001 and 2008, 2.4 million jobs were lost and thousands of workers were displaced in every U.S. congressional district as a result of China’s currency manipulation and unfair trade policies.[7] In its most recent report to Congress, the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission “recommends that Congress consider legislation that has the effect of offsetting the impact on the U.S. economy of China’s currency manipulation.”[8] It is critically important for our constituents and for our economy that we give our government the necessary tools to address this issue, and we urge you to bring the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act to a vote. Sincerely, TIM RYAN TIM MURPHY JOHN BOCCIERI JASON ALTMIRE RICK BOUCHER EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON J. GRESHAM BARRETT BRUCE BRALEY ROB BISHOP HENRY BROWN JR. SANFORD BISHOP JR. DAN BURTON STEVE BUYER KATHLEEN DAHLKEMPER KEN CALVERT LINCOLN DAVIS CHRISTOPHER CARNEY PETER DEFAZIO JOHN CONYERS JR. ROSA DELAURO JERRY COSTELLO JOHN DINGELL MARK CRITZ JOE DONNELLY MICHAEL DOYLE BILL FOSTER JOHN DUNCAN JR. MARCIA FUDGE VERNON EHLERS JIM GERLACH KEITH ELLISON GENE GREEN BRAD ELLSWORTH RAUL GRIJALVA BOB FILNER DEBORAH HALVORSON PHIL HARE RUSH HOLT ALCEE HASTINGS BOB INGLIS MAURICE HINCHEY JESSE JACKSON JR. PAUL HODES WALTER JONES PETER HOEKSTRA STEVE KAGEN TIM HOLDEN MARCY KAPTUR MARY JO KILROY DANIEL MAFFEI STEVEN LATOURETTE DONALD MANZULLO CHRISTOPHER JOHN LEE BETTY MCCOLLUM DANIEL LIPINSKI THADDEUS MCCOTTER DAVID LOEBSACK JAMES MCGOVERN STEPHEN LYNCH MIKE MCINTYRE MICHAEL MICHAUD CHELLIE PINGREE SUE WILKENS MYRICK TODD RUSSELL PLATTS CHRISTOPHER MURPHY NICK RAHALL PATRICK MURPHY LAURA RICHARDSON THOMAS PERRIELLO HAROLD ROGERS GARY PETERS MIKE J.ROGERS MIKE D. RODGERS BILL SHUSTER DANA ROHRABACHER ZACHARY SPACE MARK SCHAUER FORTNEY PETE STARK JOE SESTAK BART STUPAK CAROL SHEA-PORTER BETTY SUTTON BRAD SHERMAN GLENN THOMPSON PAUL TONKO JOE WILSON MICHAEL TURNER PETER VISCOLSKY PETER WELCH LYNN WESTERMORELAND CHARLES WILSON JOE WILSON LYNN WOOSLEY HOWARD COBLE SUE WILKENS MYRICK JAN SCHAKOWSKY CHRISTOPHER MURPHY DORIS MATSUI PATRICK MURPHY MICHAEL ARCURI THOMAS PERRIELLO BLAINE LUETKEMEYER DALE KILDEE ALAN MOLLOHAN [1] IMF, Meetings of G-20 Deputies, Seoul, Korea, Global Economic Prospects and Policy Challenges, February 27, 2010. [2] https://www.ustreas.gov/offices/international-affairs/economic-exchange-rates/pdf/Foreign ExchangeReport20July2010.pdf . [3] U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission. 2009 Annual Report to Congress of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission. (p. 13). Washington: Government Printing Office, 2009. [4] Cline, William R., and John Williamson. 2010. “Notes on Equilib­rium Exchange Rates: January 2010.” Washington, D.C.: Peterson Institute for International Economics. Policy Brief 10-2. https://www.iie.com/publications/interstitial.cfm?ResearchID=1224. [5] “Taking on China”, New York Times, March 14, 2010. [6] “China's yuan value hits U.S. economy, two experts say”, Washington Times, March 15, 2010. [7] https://epi.3cdn.net/91b2eeeffce66c1a10_v5m6beqhi.pdf. [8] U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission. 2009 Annual Report to Congress of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission. (p. 13). Washington: Government Printing Office, 2009.
09.21.2010	Congressman Ryan Applauds New Allegiant Air Flights from YNG (Warren, OH) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) applauded Allegiant Air’s announcement that it is expanding its service at the Youngstown-Warren Regional Airport (YNG) to include flights to Tampa Bay, FL. With the new destination, the airline will offer new introductory fares as low as $64.99 one way. Allegiant currently runs flights from YNG to Orlando, FL and Myrtle Beach, SC. “This is great news for our Valley,” stated Congressman Ryan. “Allegiant Air’s expansion of services in our region is just one more positive sign that our economy is moving in the right direction. And it would not have been possible without a significant level of regional cooperation and the leadership of Chairman and CEO Maurice Gallagher Jr., and President Andrew Levy.” For more information, visit Allegiant Air online. # # #
09.15.2010	Congressman Ryan Touts Manufacturing Growth in Valley; Economic Development Strategy Taking Hold Youngstown MSA Leads U.S. with 8.9 Percent Growth in Manufacturing Employment (Washington, DC) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) praised the Brookings Institution’s report tracing economic recession and recovery in the Great Lakes Region. According to the report, unemployment rates fell faster in Great Lakes metropolitan areas than in the nation and other large metropolitan areas. Further, a strong manufacturing base helped to increase the number of jobs in the Great Lakes region; the manufacturing sector also lent strength to the region’s growth output in the second quarter 2010. Importantly, 86 percent of Great Lakes metropolitan areas added manufacturing jobs between the first and second quarters of 2010, with the Youngstown MSA’s manufacturing employment growing by 8.9 percent – the largest gain in the United States. Manufacturing centers, including Youngstown, also experienced some of the biggest declines in unemployment between June 2009 and June 2010. “This report puts solid numbers behind the groundswell of progress that we have seen over the past 18 months,” stated Congressman Ryan. “It’s simple – we make things in the Mahoning Valley, from custom steel to the new Chevy Cruze. And because of the efforts of Governor Strickland, Ohio ranks first in renewable and advanced energy manufacturing, with the sixth fastest-growing economy in the nation. Paired with the efforts of our local leaders to create a business-friendly climate that capitalizes on a highly-trained workforce, the Mahoning Valley is positioned to lead the United States out of this recession.” # # #
09.15.2010	Reps. Ryan and Boccieri Testify on Behalf of China Currency Legislation (Washington, DC) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) joined Congressman John Boccieri (OH-16) to testify before the House Ways and Committee urging Congress to bring H.R. 2378, the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act, to a vote before the full House. The hearing focused on Rep. Ryan’s bill and the initiation of formal dispute settlement consultations with China within the World Trade Organization. If the committee supports this legislation, it could go to the House floor for a vote as early as late September. “Congress must act to ensure fair treatment for American workers and manufacturers,” stated Congressman Ryan. “Our economy can no longer be based on haircuts and backrubs. We make things in America, and this country must refocus its job creation efforts on manufacturing. My legislation provides this Administration with the capacity to address the illegal trade policies that provide unfair advantages to countries like China – allowing us to level the playing field for our manufacturing industry and create good jobs for hard-working American men and women.” Rep. Ryan was the first to testify before the committee and stressed the importance that enacting legislation is the only viable option we have at this point to bring strong pressure on China and other countries with persistently undervalued currencies. The other members who testified were Republican members Rep. Adrian Smith (NE-03) and Rep. Lynn Jenkins (KS-02), and Democratic Rep. John Boccieri. “Manufacturing is the foundation of America’s economic strength and our national security,” said Congressman Boccieri. “Enough is enough. America must embrace a policy where we grow it, build it and assemble it here in America. Let’s make it in America again.” Congressmen Ryan introduced the Currency Reform Fair Trade Act (H.R. 2378) to protect U.S. manufacturers from China’s currency misalignment. H.R. 2378, which does not single out any one country in particular, directs the U.S. Department of Commerce to treat currency undervaluation as a prohibited export subsidy. When any foreign government deliberately undervalues its currency, the U.S. government can respond by imposing reasonable countervailing duties or antidumping measures. Special care has been taken to make the provisions of this currency bill consistent with the World Trade Organization's relevant agreements and provisions. The bill was introduced in May 2009 and currently has 146 co-sponsors. ###
09.15.2010	Congressman Ryan Provides Testimony for ITC Hearing, Addresses Currency Reform Legislation (Washington, DC) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) provided testimony to the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) regarding the final phase antidumping and countervailing duty investigations for the import of certain steel pipe from China. The ITC previously determined that there exists reasonable indication that the industry is threatened with material injury by the import of certain types of seamless carbon and alloy steel standard, line, and pressure pipe from China that are allegedly subsidized and sold in the United States at less than fair value. After further investigation by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the ITC voted 6-0 in May 2010 to place antidumping (AD) and countervailing duties (CVD) on these goods. Congressman Ryan also commented on today’s ITC hearing with regard to his Currency Reform Fair Trade Act legislation: “While for much of the country, these policies are simply the subject of political rhetoric, in my district they mean jobs for my constituents. Currently, trade actions to protect American manufacturers are not handled in an effective manner – but rather, decisions are made on a case-by-case basis. My Currency Reform Fair Trade Act legislation (H.R. 2378) will address the underlying cause of these unfair trade practices, and allow us to more efficiently level the playing field for American manufacturers.” Congressman Ryan’s full prepared statement for the ITC follows: “I strongly support the petitioners in this case. Two of them, V&M Star and TMK IPSCO, are based in my district. They have been subjected to unfair competition from Chinese seamless pipe makers. The evidence is compelling that Chinese imports have caused material injury to the domestic steel pipe industry. In recent years, the volume of U.S. imports of seamless pipe from China has more than doubled, despite the fact that demand has fallen. By 2008, China’s share of the U.S. market was larger than that of the entire domestic industry. In fact, even after the cases were filed in 2009, the Chinese shipped an additional 123,000 tons into a saturated market, representing more than double the domestic shipments. The Chinese steel industry has continued to ramp up their operations and add capacity. This is demonstrated by their rapid import growth in seamless pipe and that is why – after determining that these imports were harming the domestic industry – these companies filed these cases. Ohio companies and those in my district are all too familiar with these trends, since we fought hard to obtain critical relief on Oil Country Tubular Goods (OCTG) imports from China which decimated the industry. Thankfully, the Commerce Department issued significant antidumping (AD) and countervailing duty (CVD) duties and the Commission issued an affirmative decision which resulted in relief for the industry and the eventual $650 million expansion of V&M Star's operations in Youngstown. It also resulted in an announcement by TMK IPSCO that they would open a new pipe processing facility in Brookfield.” # # #
07.26.2010	Congressman Ryan Announces Defense Appropriations Funding $37.5 Million Approved by Subcommittee for Local Projects (Washington, DC) -- Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), a member of the House Appropriations Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, announced today that the FY 2011 defense spending bill includes $37.5 million for projects in Ohio and the 17th Congressional District. Funded programs range from advanced metals technology to biometrics, alternative energy, and orthopaedic research. The bill must still pass the full House Appropriations Committee, the full House and Senate, and be signed by the President. “Our local universities and research institutions are doing some of the most sophisticated research and development work in the nation,” stated Congressman Ryan. “And I intend to leverage my position on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee to position Northeast Ohio as a leader in advanced materials manufacturing and alternative energy technologies. These projects will utilize our local talent to produce world-class results – creating institutional associations that can spin-off into high-paying civilian jobs that keep our kids in Ohio.” “We want to thank and commend Congressman Ryan for his work on behalf of the Mahoning Valley and his unwavering support of Youngstown State University as we continue our evolution into an urban research university,” said YSU president Cynthia E. Anderson. “These allocations allow YSU to continue to play a leading role as an engine for the type of research and development activities needed to help this region’s economic rebound.” "The University of Akron is appreciative of the support that Congress has given us as we continue to stimulate the economic prosperity of our region," stated Dr. Luis M. Proenza, president of The University of Akron. "We are especially grateful to Congressman Ryan and the regional congressional delegation that our work at The University of Akron is recognized as we address some of the critical infrastructure and health care issues facing our nation.” Warren Mayor Michael O’Brien added, “We couldn’t be more pleased that Congressman Ryan has secured funding to facilitate the development of Tech Belt Energy Innovation Center in downtown Warren. This is a key element for continued development in the city – bringing new vitality to downtown, and new job growth to the region.” YOUNGSTOWN STATE UNIVERSITY (YSU) PROJECTS YSU is a public research university located in Youngstown, Ohio. Ohio Enhanced Defense Alternate Energy Suppliers Program: $4.79 million This program establishes an incubator mechanism for Ohio’s unique industrial base to be leveraged for emerging alternate energy and power applications and requirements. Youngstown State University will administer the Ohio Enhanced Defense Alternate Energy Suppliers Program in conjunction with the non-profit Tech Belt Energy Innovative Center in Warren, Ohio and the Youngstown Business Incubator. It will identify new technologies to improve fuel economy and provide alternate energy and power sources for Defense applications. Advanced Nanocomposite Integrated Survivability and Force Protection Systems: $3.5 million The project advances development of a viable lightweight, cost efficient, nanocomposite material that can be used for force protection. By studying the ballistics properties of successfully produced plates, the tested materials will be ready for specific field applications of benefit to soldiers, such as Force Protection for military transport vehicles that require complex geometries. ADVANCED METHODS IN INNOVATION (AMI) PROJECTS AMI is a collaboration of Youngstown State University and the Youngstown Business Incubator that promotes advanced manufacturing techniques and other high tech research, development and technology transfer applications to generate economic development in the region. Steel Hardening for US Navy Littoral Combat Ships: $3 million The funding will support further research into new methods of making stainless steel more durable and resistant to corrosion, thereby dramatically reducing energy consumption in energy intensive industrial processes. This project will build on work undertaken by the Industrial Materials for the Future Program of the US Department of Energy’s Office of Industrial Technologies. Multi-Modal Biometric Patient Identification and Registration System: $1.5 million Funding will be used to develop hardware/software that establishes a link to each patient’s portable health care card record and is continuously updated during subsequent visits. The system provides a commercially-viable and easy-to-use identification solution that can be utilized by any insurance company, hospital, clinic or medical office anywhere in the world. Funding will be used to establish a Biometrics Information Security and Image Science (BISIS) Research Center that will foster technological and economic growth in Northeast Ohio by providing a leading role in biometric testing, research, engineering, development, training, integration and commercialization. Model Based Enterprise Tools For Reverse Engineering: $4.75 million Using Model Based Enterprise (MBE), an innovative approach that enables multiple stakeholders to collaborate at the enterprise level, the funding will be used to improve the fielding and sustainment of weapons systems by designing and simulating the platform in a digital environment. This project will conduct a larger-scale demonstration of MBE tools to establish and validate procedures and processes, and develop shop floor use cases for the US Army. UNIVERSITY OF AKRON (UA) PROJECTS UA is a public research university located in Akron, Ohio. Spider Mortar Base Plate: $1 million UA will develop new technology to redesign materials that will significantly reduce the weight and cost of mortar base plates, while increasing durability and extended usable life for the product. This will be addressed through use of a specialty steel spider – designed to absorb impact caused by firing rounds while providing the lightweight stability and durability necessary in the field. SMBP technology utilizes the properties of specific ultra high strength steel or nickel alloy for impact absorption, providing greater safety for the troops while still achieving the weight reduction and performance needs of the military. DEFENSE METALS TECHNOLOGY CENTER PROJECTS The Defense Metals Technology Center is located on the Stark State College of Technology campus and functions as an industrial-based consortium to serve the needs of the DOD by facilitating research and development of innovative technology and products for the Defense Materials and Manufacturing Industry. Defense Metals Stockpile Pilot Program: $3 million Secured funding will ensure a steady and available supply of critical, supply-ready aerospace-grade titanium for the Defense Logistics Agency and armor-grade titanium for the Army Research and Development Command. As efforts initiated by the Department of Defense to evaluate reconfigured stockpile approaches ramp up, the Titanium Stockpile Pilot Program will employ innovative vendor management techniques, develop buffer stocks and contractor-managed inventories, and create a virtual titanium inventory for implementation and evaluation purposes to protect from lapses in supply, support the domestic titanium industry, and ensure that the highest quality material is available for key projects of national defense and homeland security. Defense Metals Technology Center: $3 million The Defense Metals Technology Center (DMTC) was established to affect needed changes within ailing infrastructure industries, high-capital start-up industries, and single-point failure risk industries, where there is tri-service benefit from combined investment. In one year, DMTC has developed strategic metals databases; sponsored titanium-related research projects; sponsored and expanded the Cooperative Educational program to include multiple institutions of higher learning and expanded the program to include 19 Bachelor and Associate students who are training at the US Army Armament Research, Development and Engineering Center; among other initiatives. DMTC serves as an effective third party agent to link academia, national labs, industrial interests, and the Department of Defense to a common goal: maintaining a globally-competitive industrial base to support the cost effective manufacture of military hardware. ADDITIONAL RECIPIENTS Austen BioInnovation Institute of Akron, $5 million The Austen BioInnovation Institute provides orthopaedic research and development, maximizing the research and clinical assets of its partners to introduce new knowledge, new products, and increase the quality of orthopaedic services in the region. The Institute will capitalize on select opportunities intersecting the musculoskeletal biology, polymer/material science, and orthopaedic focus areas – all of which will elevate Akron and Ohio’s leadership position in orthopaedics, improve the quality of healthcare through research and education, and drive economic development linked to biotechnology. Southwest Research Institute (SWRI) – Accelerated Therapies for Scar and Wound Healing: $3 million The Southwest Research Institute (SWRI) is an independent, nonprofit applied research and development organization. Chronic wounds affect 5.7 million patients and cost $20 billion annually. Severe burns sustained on the battlefield result in four percent of all combat related injuries; 44 percent of all burn disability is due to contractures and range of motion loss. The SWRI program will develop improved therapeutic interventions that combine laser and drug therapies – with the objective of accelerating and improving the scar healing process. Therapies will be tested clinically at outpatient clinics in Akron and Youngstown, and Austen BioInnovation Institute (in consortium with Akron Children's Hospital). CureSearch – Pediatric Cancer Research and Clinical Trials: $3 million CureSearch funds and supports the research of the Children’s Oncology Group, the world’s largest cooperative pediatric cancer research organization. This project will support and expand upon existing Department of Defense translational research; specifically, genome-wide screening for therapeutic targets in high-risk childhood cancer. This involves identifying, delineating, and validating molecular targets into new approaches to therapy targeting new agents against highly resistant, poor prognosis diseases. Funding will benefit Akron Children’s Hospital and five other children’s hospitals in Ohio. # # #
06.17.2010	Congressman Ryan Supports Small Business Jobs and Credit & Tax Relief Acts (Washington, DC) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) joined other members of Congress in supporting the Small Business Jobs and Credit & Tax Relief Acts (H.R. 5297 and H.R. 5486). These two bills will expand much needed lending to small businesses and offer tax incentives to help small businesses grow, hire, and fuel our economy. The Small Business Jobs and Credit Act (H.R. 5297) and Small Business Jobs Tax Relief Act (H.R. 5486) will leverage up to $300 billion in loans for small businesses through a $30 billion lending fund for small and medium-sized community banks. “As I travel the 17th District and talk with business people, their most consistent request is to help loosen up credit. This legislation is a major step to increase lending to small businesses and allow them to create jobs in our community. By increasing the flexibility of credit for small businesses, we will continue to improve our economy and put Americans back to work,” stated Congressman Ryan. “Small businesses are the engine of our economy. In order to speed up our recovery, we must put more money directly in the hands of the hard-working business men and women who supply the jobs for our workers.” Other provisions in the bill include: · Restart private investment to meet small businesses’ evolving financing needs through a new SBA public-private partnership. · Provide $3.5 billion in bipartisan tax incentives to spur investment in small businesses and the formation of new small businesses, and grant small business tax penalty relief. · Curtails in tax loopholes permitting crude tall oil (a waste byproduct like black liquor) to get the biofuel tax credit and rich families to pass on wealth while cutting their estate and gift taxes. “I am disappointed that Republican House members opposed this important legislation and failed to support what I believe should have been a bipartisan effort,” stated Congressman Ryan. # # #
06.03.2010	Congressman Ryan Votes to Strengthen Our Military and Support Our Troops (Washington, DC) – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) voted today for H.R. 5136, the National Defense Authorization Act. This bill brings our military strategy into the 21st century by focusing on the threats of today and preparing for the threats of tomorrow. It is another step by President Obama and the 111th Congress to take America in a new direction by ensuring that our military is fully prepared for threats and challenges worldwide and that our troops get the benefits they deserve. “This bill improves the capacity of our armed forces, provides our troops with the tools they need to address terrorism and other global threats, and strengthens support at home for our service members and their families,” said Congressman Ryan. “As we approach Memorial Day, it is important that we reflect upon the sacrifices of the brave men and women who’ve served our country in uniform. Our democracy is the result of their selfless dedication to liberty and equality. In their honor, we must ensure that America continues to have the finest military in the world.” This bill will strengthen our military’s readiness by authorizing $9.9 billion to fund the equipment requirements for the Army and Marine Corps. It also ensures better protection for our troops at home by providing the funds to implement initial recommendations to address force protection policies, and abroad by providing a rapid acquisition account that allows our commanders on the ground to get equipment they need immediately. # # #
06.03.2010	Congressman Ryan Supports Creating American Jobs Act (Washington, DC) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) joined other members of Congress in supporting the American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act (House amendment to Senate amendment to H.R. 4213). This legislation creates and retains over one million American jobs by restoring credit to small businesses, extending tax incentives for research and development initiatives, rebuilding our national infrastructure, expanding summer jobs for young people, and providing tax relief for middle class American families. Further, the bill promotes fiscal responsibility by closing tax loopholes and enforcing corporate accountability by preventing corporations from shipping jobs overseas, and increases revenues by imposing a fair income tax on Wall Street and ensuring that the oil industry foots the bill for the environmental cleanup of the Gulf of Mexico. “Our economy will only continue to improve when we increase the flexibility of credit for small businesses and put Americans back to work,” stated Congressman Ryan. “This is a big step toward changing the current system where profits are privatized and risk is socialized. By making Wall Street and corporate conglomerates accountable for the financial consequences of their actions, we are putting more money directly in the hands of the hard-working men and women who make this country great.” # # #
06.03.2010	Congressman Ryan Says Latest Jobs Figures Show Economic Progress (Washington, DC)-Today, Congressman Ryan applauded the announcement that Ohio's unemployment rate has slipped from its highest level in more than 26 years. For Ohio’s 17th District, the job market showed improvement in April, with unemployment reduced in all four counties: Mahoning, Portage, Summit and Trumbull. “The drop in state and local unemployment is a clear sign that our efforts to repair this economy are starting to pay off,” stated Congressman Ryan. “We still have a lot of work to do, but this is definitely a great start towards putting Americans – and Ohioans – back to work.” Ryan added, “You can't be alive and breathing and paying the least bit of attention and not think that the stimulus package has helped the economic recovery." The Ohio Department of Job and Family Services reported that the number of workers unemployed in Ohio last month was 652,000, down from 656,000 in March. Federal officials say Ohio was the state with the largest hiring gain last month. This follows the recent news that the State of Ohio created the most jobs in the nation during the same month. # # #
05.12.2010	(Washington, DC) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) announced his selection to the powerful Defense Appropriations Subcommittee of the U.S. House of Representatives. Congressman Ryan is filling the vacancy caused by the untimely death of Congressman John Murtha of Pennsylvania. The Defense Appropriations Subcommittee has jurisdiction over the Department of Defense – Military, Departments of Army, Navy (including Marine Corps), Air Force, Office of Secretary of Defense, certain Defense Agencies, the Central Intelligence Agency, and Intelligence Community Staff. “This appointment is a huge win for the 17th District. The Defense budget is the largest of all the budgets in the United States government. Having the opportunity to steer federal defense dollars to our district will accelerate the economic progress of our region and further promote the Tech Belt initiative. I will make sure everyone doing business with the Pentagon knows what a great place Northeast Ohio is to do business.” “I have been given a very serious responsibility and a tremendous opportunity to serve on the subcommittee that provides direction and funding for our national security,” said Congressman Ryan. “I will work extremely hard to make sure the men and women who serve our great country have all of the resources they need. This seat on the Defense Appropriations subcommittee will have a significant impact on our military facilities at the Ravenna Training and Logistics Site and the Youngstown-Warren Air Reserve Wing and its 910 Airlift Wing, as well as the manufacturers and contractors in our region that provide equipment and services to the military.” In Fiscal Year 2010, the Defense Appropriations subcommittee appropriated more than $625.9 billion for Defense-related activities including operations and training, health care for uniformed and civilian personnel, the maintenance of arms, equipment and facilities, and the development and purchase of new equipment. Ryan also joined the Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government and retained his seat on the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education. # # #
05.12.2010	(Warren, OH) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) added comment to Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) in placing a hold on the nomination of the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation director, due to his conflict of interest in the Delphi matter. Added to Senator Brown’s release: “I strongly support the actions of Senator Sherrod Brown in placing a hold on the nomination of the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation director,” stated Congressman Ryan. “We cannot allow the appointment of a PBGC director who is unable to resolve the Delphi situation due to a conflict of interest. These workers and retirees spent their careers working for the benefits that are now being withheld from them; they deserve a swift and just resolution. I want to thank Senator Brown for his continued leadership and determination in this matter.” # # #
05.11.2010	(Warren, OH) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) added comment to Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) in placing a hold on the nomination of the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation director, due to his conflict of interest in the Delphi matter. Added to Senator Brown’s release: “I strongly support the actions of Senator Sherrod Brown in placing a hold on the nomination of the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation director,” stated Congressman Ryan. “We cannot allow the appointment of a PBGC director who is unable to resolve the Delphi situation due to a conflict of interest. These workers and retirees spent their careers working for the benefits that are now being withheld from them; they deserve a swift and just resolution. I want to thank Senator Brown for his continued leadership and determination in this matter.” # # #
05.07.2010	(Warren, OH) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) made the following comment regarding the vote made by members of the Service Employees International Union (SEIU) regarding contract negotiations with Ardent Health Systems. "Last night, the SEIU voted to ratify a labor agreement necessary to keep a major hospital system open in the Mahoning Valley, and I want to commend them for taking this critical first step,” said Congressman Ryan. “Their leadership is essential to secure the jobs of thousands of employees throughout the region, while helping to strengthen our area’s economic security and health care delivery network.” The Congressman added, “This bankruptcy has been a difficult process, putting tremendous strain on the many families that work at Forum Health and the patients that seek care there. Throughout the past year, Forum employees have maintained a high level of professionalism and continue to provide the quality health care to which our community is accustomed. While many have questioned the decisions and direction of Forum Health in the past, the workers, quite frankly, have demonstrated a professionalism and commitment that is second to none. I want to personally thank the members of the SEIU and its leadership team for focusing on the big picture and being willing to make sacrifices for the good of our entire community. Their strong leadership does not go unnoticed.” “There is still work to be done,” Ryan continued. “Members of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) and the Ohio Nurses Association (ONA) will soon face a similar vote, and I’ve no doubt that they are considering the scenario for a promising, more stable health system which will be a key component in the continued economic renaissance that is occurring in the Mahoning Valley." # # #
05.05.2010	(Warren, OH) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) commented on the efforts of the Ohio Credit Union League in pledging over $150 million in affordable student lending that will supplement federal financing programs for college. “It is no secret that the cornerstone of a robust and diverse economy is a highly-trained and adaptable workforce,” stated Congressman Ryan, “which is why making a quality, affordable post-secondary education accessible to the general public has been a priority of mine since I took office. We cannot allow the rising costs of college to paint our residents into a corner – the expansion of federal programs including Pell Grants and Perkins Loans are critical to the future of our regional economy as we transition from the Rust Belt to the Tech Belt. I applaud the Ohio Credit Union League for proposing innovative programs that will make post-secondary education more affordable for today’s students and tomorrow’s leaders.” # # #
04.29.2010	(Washington, DC) – On Wednesday, Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) met with Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner, in order to discuss the situation facing Delphi retirees, to address continued currency manipulation by the People’s Republic of China, and to address the inability of many 17th District and Ohio businesses to obtain affordable credit from lenders. “Yesterday, Senator Brown and I met with Secretary Geithner and carefully laid out our concerns regarding the grave situation facing Delphi retirees in Northeastern Ohio and across the nation,” stated Congressman Ryan. “Unfortunately, due to the pending lawsuit filed by the Delphi Salaried Retirees Association in which he has been named, the Secretary was unable to answer any questions. However, he did direct us to work closely with the Treasury Department’s General Counsel. Let it be clear that Senator Brown and I remain intently focused on solving this problem for the retirees, and that we will continue to press the Treasury’s legal counsel to resolve this issue through either an administrative or legislative solution. The Congressman added, “Senator Brown and I also compelled Secretary Geithner to address China’s continued currency manipulation, and made it clear that Congress is ready to act if the Administration and the Chinese government are unable to come to an agreement that provides for a more market-oriented Renminbi.” “Finally, we had a conversation in which we relayed the views of the many businessmen and women in Ohio who have been unable to secure much-needed credit to continue or expand their businesses,” said the Congressman. “Senator Brown and I urged Secretary Geithner to do more to free up credit and pump much-needed dollars into our economy.” # # #
04.29.2010	(Warren, OH) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) congratulated Roger Lindgren, President and CEO of V&M Star, on his retirement. “We have known a true champion in Roger Lindgren,” stated Congressman Ryan. “His leadership and vision for V&M Star – and indeed, the entire Mahoning Valley – has left an indelible footprint on the future of our community. Roger expertly positioned V&M for expansion and continued success while remaining humble, honest, and hard-working. We wish him well in his retirement, and look forward to working with the new leadership at the plant to continue its expansion.” # # #
04.27.2010	(Washington, DC) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) met with David T. Vandewater, CEO and President of Ardent Health Services, a Tennessee-based hospital group that is considering the purchase of Forum Health, currently in Chapter 11 reorganization bankruptcy. The Congressman reaffirmed his office’s unconditional assistance to Forum Health and its employees with regard to both short- and long-term solutions for the sustainability of the regional health system. “Today’s meeting went very well,” stated Congressman Ryan. “I made it clear that I hoped all parties could reach a mutually-beneficial agreement as soon as possible – and that everyone in the Mahoning Valley has a stake in Forum’s future. After my conversation with Mr. Vandewater, I reached out to union officials representing Forum’s employees to reiterate my support for the workers and stress the importance for a speedy resolution so we can move past this difficult chapter in Forum’s history.” The Congressman then added, “This is a matter appropriately before the Bankruptcy Court, and the Court will have final say, but I will continue to look for every opportunity to bring resolution to this matter. There is no doubt that the process will be difficult, but now is the time to act. By securing several thousand jobs and potentially adding new tax revenue at a time when cities and school districts are laying off so many police, firefighters, and teachers, our community is presented with an opportunity to rebuild an improved hospital system that will reflect the talent, skill, and work ethic of its employees. If we are to lock in the many great successes we’ve had in the Mahoning Valley recently – V&M, GM, VXI, and so many others – it is critical that we find a solution to preserve Forum’s economic benefit and health care services.” # # #
04.23.2010	(Washington, DC) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) joined Congressman Elijah Cummings of Maryland, Congressman Peter DeFazio of Oregon, and nearly 50 other House Members in calling for a full-scale investigation of Goldman Sachs by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). This week, Goldman Sachs was sued by the SEC for possible securities fraud. The SEC alleges that false and materially misleading statements were made by the firm in creating and marketing ABACUS 2007-AC1, a collateralized debt obligation (CDO) backed by home mortgages; 25 total ABACUS CDOs were created. The letter [attached] requests that the SEC pursue investigations into the remaining 24 transactions, evaluate the extent of any receipt of fraudulently-generated AIG-issued credit default swap payments, and vigorously pursue the recovery of payments on behalf of the American taxpayer. “My constituents share my frustration with the continued bailout of Wall Street conglomerates, whose questionable business practices have brought about the worst economic recession that our nation has seen in 80 years,” stated Congressman Ryan. “While unemployment rates continue to rise and hard-working families struggle to hold onto their homes, Goldman Sachs has been busy creating bad bets on the housing market and selling them at a profit. We can no longer allow this type of corporate arrogance to jeopardize the very livelihood of the American people. No longer should Wall Street gambling destroy the middle class.” “We’ve got to look into every aspect of these deals and figure out exactly what went wrong,” said Congressman Cummings, a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, in an interview with the New York Times on Sunday. “If people were participating in any type of fraudulent activity we need to expose it and they need to be brought to justice. We need to get our money back.” # # # The Honorable Mary Schapiro Chairwoman U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 100 F St. NE Washington, DC 20549 Dear Chairwoman Schapiro: Thank you for your continued efforts to restore the role of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), “to protect investors, maintain fair, orderly, and efficient markets, and facilitate capital formation.” The SEC announcement of civil securities fraud charges against Goldman Sachs and Fabrice Tourre is welcome news to both investors and the taxpayers who bailed out Wall Street. The failure of the Bush administration to enforce these laws ultimately undermined the financial markets and contributed to the economic turmoil of the last three years. As you know, the SEC complaint makes disturbing allegations of fraud against Goldman Sachs. The SEC has alleged that Goldman Sachs enticed investors into long positions in a synthetic collateralized debt obligation (CDO), while unbeknownst to investors the CDO was specifically designed by hedge fund manager John Paulson to generate losses to enhance short positions taken by Paulson. We are grateful that the SEC is seeking a court order for Goldman Sachs “to disgorge all illegal profits that they obtained as a result of their fraudulent misconduct.” The U.S. taxpayer deserves nothing less. The complaint is based on a single CDO known as ABACUS 2007-AC1. However, the ABACUS 2007-AC1 offering was part of a series of 25 such CDOs, all arranged by Goldman Sachs. It is not beyond the realm of comprehension that the 24 remaining ABACUS transactions included similar materially misleading statements to investors in order to protect Goldman’s internal proprietary bets, or other coveted counterparties like Mr. Paulson. Seven of the ABACUS CDOs were guaranteed by credit default swaps from the American International Group (AIG). These seven AIG-insured CDOs contributed to billions of dollars in losses at AIG according to the New York Times. Should any of these transactions be found to include fraudulent conduct, any resulting contractual payments from AIG-issued credit default swaps could be viewed as ill-gotten gains. In light of the U.S. Treasury and Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s extensive and unprecedented support of the insurance giant and the $12.9 billion in taxpayer dollars that AIG transferred to Goldman Sachs to settle the bad credit default swaps, it is imperative that the SEC pursue the recovery from Goldman Sachs of any fraudulently obtained AIG payments. Accordingly, we request that SEC, with all due haste, pursue investigations into the remaining 24 ABACUS transactions for securities fraud, evaluate the extent of any receipt, by Goldman Sachs, of fraudulently-generated AIG-issued credit default swap payments, and vigorously pursue the recovery of such payments on behalf of the U.S. taxpayer. Finally, should this or any subsequent investigation uncover criminal misconduct, we implore you to refer those matters to the Department of Justice for the appropriate prosecution. Again, we appreciate the enforcement efforts of the SEC, and look forward to monitoring the progression of this landmark case. Sincerely, Peter DeFazio Elijah Cummings Dennis Cardoza Stephanie Herseth Sandlin Joe Baca Brian Baird Earl Blumenauer Lois Capps Michael Capuano Christopher Carney John Conyers John Dingell Keith Ellison Anna Eshoo Bob Filner John Garamendi Alan Grayson Raul Grijalva Phil Hare Martin Heinrich Maurice Hinchey Mazie Hirono Jesse Jackson, Jr. Marcy Kaptur Dale Kildee Dennis Kucinich Barbara Lee David Loebsack Stephen Lynch Betsy Markey Betty McCollum Michael Michaud George Miller Brad Miller Bill Pascrell Chellie Pingree Steven Rothman Tim Ryan Linda Sanchez Mark Schauer Carol Shea-Porter Jackie Speier Pete Stark Bart Stupak Betty Sutton Gene Taylor Bennie Thompson Mike Thompson John Tierney Dina Titus Timothy Walz Peter Welch Lynn Woolsey
04.22.2010	(Warren, OH) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) congratulated Youngstown State University’s Williamson School of Business for producing yet another award-winning team for the Beta Alpha Psi (BAP) Best Practices competition. For the second time in three years, YSU has placed first in the BAP competition. Winning team members included Tarik Awad of Canfield, Ryan Garman of Sandusky, and Matthew Pollock of Lowellville. “I would like to congratulate the Youngstown State University Beta Alpha Psi team on their continued achievement in the regional BAP Best Practices competition, and wish them luck as they compete for the national title,” stated Congressman Ryan. “These young people represent the best of what our community has to offer – intelligence, drive, and responsibility – characteristics that will continue to push our Valley forward as a competitor in the global economy.” Beta Alpha Psi is an honorary organization for students majoring in accounting, finance, and information systems. BAP provides opportunities for self-development, service and association among members and practicing professionals, and encourages a sense of ethical, social, and public responsibility. # # #
04.21.2010	(Washington, DC) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) introduced a bill that would expand funding through the Department of Commerce’s Economic Development Administration (EDA) to include grants for operations and support services. Currently, EDA funds only construction and/or renovation projects. The Business Incubator Promotion Act bill provides for an independent EDA funding stream that will provide competitive grant funding up to $750,000 for feasibility studies and plans, and up to $3 million for implementation. Successful projects will be chosen according to criteria including: Projected number of jobs created for each of the first six years after grant receipt; Creation/Expansion of business incubator within first five years after grant receipt; Types of businesses and research entities expected in the business incubator and surrounding community; and Capability to attract a well-trained workforce to the business incubator. “By fostering entrepreneurship through the establishment and expansion of local business incubators, we are seeking to position today’s distressed communities as tomorrow’s centers of innovation and research,” stated Congressman Ryan. “Cities like Youngstown, Warren, and Akron can benefit directly from this bill, which will provide them with the opportunity to invest the resources required to build a new, sustainable economy – making them competitive on regional, national, and global levels.” “The key to successful incubation is to provide technical assistance and access to entrepreneurial resources to help new companies succeed,” said Julie Michael Smith, Chief Development Officer of the Youngstown Business Incubator. “This proposed legislation would remove a significant barrier to valuable EDA funding which can help incubators such as YBI continue to grow high value businesses in economically-challenged communities like Youngstown.” Terry Martell, Director of Operations and Business Development for the Akron Global Business Accelerator expressed support for the legislation, adding that, “Between 1980 and 2005, 40 million jobs were created by firms five years old or less, while established firms produced no net new jobs. [Kaufmann Foundation] Start-up companies historically have a high attrition rate, with only five percent surviving after the first five years; however, fully 40 percent of incubated companies survive after five years – or an eight-fold increase over non-incubated companies. [National Business Incubation Association]” The Business Incubator Promotion Act states that “whether suffering from long-term distress or a sudden economic dislocation, distressed communities should be encouraged to support the formation of business incubators to promote innovation and entrepreneurship in economically distressed areas and to take other actions to support entrepreneurship, so as to help regions create higher-skill, higher-wage jobs and foster the participation of those regions in the global marketplace.” Additionally, the bill provides the first federal definition for business incubators, as “an organization or entity established to foster the start-up of businesses or accelerate the growth of fledgling companies by providing entrepreneurs with resources and services to produce viable businesses that can help create jobs and restore vitality to distressed areas” and “does not include an organization that is organized primarily as a for-profit venture.” # # #
04.20.2010	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) introduced a Senate resolution and U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) introduced a companion House resolution with U.S. Congressman Alan Grayson (FL-08) to mark the 40th anniversary of the tragic anti-war protest in which four students at Kent State University were killed. On May 4, 2010, KSU will officially commemorate the lives of those students who were shot and killed – Allison Krause, Jeffrey Miller, Sandra Scheuer, and William Schroeder – as well as the nine students who were wounded – Alan Canfora, John Cleary, Thomas Grace, Dean Kahler, Joseph Lewis, Donald Mackenzie, James Russell, Robert Stamps, and Douglas Wrentmore. “We should never forget the tragedy at Kent State,” said Senator Brown. “Our duty to those fallen students is to remember what they were fighting for -- exercising their First Amendment rights to assemble and express their opposition to a misguided war. We must protect these rights as we protect the memory of these students.” Congressman Ryan added, “40 years ago, Kent State University was the scene of a tragedy that shook the social conscience of our nation. It is important that we recognize this day in history – for the lives that were lost, those that were wounded, and for the contribution these events provided in protecting the civil rights and liberties of American citizens.” The resolutions also applaud the recent designation of the site of the shootings by the National Register of Historic Places and recognizes the efforts of Kent State University officials to preserve the memory of the site. On May 3, 2010, Congressman Ryan will join Congressman John Lewis at KSU to commemorate the event. Information about other activities related to the May 4 anniversary can be found at the Kent State University website: https://may4newsroom.kent.edu/. # # #
04.15.2010	(Washington, DC) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) joined members of the Ohio Delegation – including Senator Sherrod Brown and Representatives John Boccieri, Steve Driehaus, Marcia Fudge, Marcy Kaptur, Mary Jo Kilroy, Dennis Kucinich, Betty Sutton, and Charlie Wilson – In a news conference highlighting tax relief for working Ohio families (video). This year, Americans are receiving significantly higher refunds, with an average increase of 10 percent. According to the Citizens for Tax Justice, fully 99 percent of Ohio families are paying fewer taxes under this Administration. Tax relief initiatives in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act include: benefits for families raising children, buying new homes and cars, making energy efficient improvements, investing in equipment, and receiving unemployment insurance. “The way to improve the economy is to cut taxes for small businesses and working families,” stated Congressman Ryan. “The supply-side policies of the mid-1980s have eroded our local manufacturing base, weakening the middle class. A return to demand-side economics will increase demand for products and therefore increase business investment and job creation.” The Congressman added, “A full recovery is going to take time, but you don’t wait your way out of an economic crisis. You work your way out. And we’re beginning to see results: a rebounding stock market, increased job creation, and more money put into the pockets of the average American. This Congress and Administration are returning our country to economic policies that create demand and benefit the middle-class. Demand-side economics served our country well between post-World War II and 1980. And we are going to return to that model.” At the press conference, members of the Delegation focused on the following tax relief initiatives: In the past year, Democrats have provided nearly all Americans with reduced taxes. A new study shows that the middle-class tax cuts included in the Recovery Act saved taxpayers an average of $1,158 on their tax returns this year. And every working and middle-class family and individual in the bottom 80 percent of income earners received a tax cut. This analysis counts the making work pay tax credit, which is available to over 94 percent of all working families and individuals; changes to the child credit; an increase in the earned income tax credit; relief from the alternative minimum tax; and a new, partially refundable education credit. [Citizens for Tax Justice, 4/13/2010] Refundable home buyer credit. The Recovery Act eliminated the re-payment obligation for a refundable tax credit that was equivalent to an interest-free loan equal to ten percent of the purchase of a home (up to $7,500) by first-time home buyers. ARRA also increased the maximum value of the credit to $8,000, removed the prohibition on financing by mortgage revenue bonds, and extended the availability of the credit to homes purchased before December 1, 2009. Energy efficiency and renewable energy incentives. Under the Recovery Act, taxpayers are eligible for up to $1,500 in tax credits for making energy-efficient improvements to their homes, such as adding insulation and installing energy efficient windows. New vehicle purchases. Taxpayers can deduct the state and local sales taxes they paid for new vehicles purchased from February 17, 2009 through December 31, 2009 under the vehicles sales tax deduction. In states that don’t have a sales tax, some other taxes or fees may be deducted; Temporary suspension of taxation of unemployment benefits. A temporary suspension of the federal income tax on the first $2,400 of unemployment benefits per recipient in taxable year 2009. The average unemployment benefit is approximately $300 per month; and Expansion of 529 education plans. The list of qualified education expenses eligible to be funded from 529 tax-advantaged savings plans was expanded to include computers and computer technology. The American Workers, State, and Business Relief Act (H.R. 4213, amended), which the Senate passed in March, would extend several tax provisions that expired at the end of 2009, providing much needed tax relief for individuals and businesses during this time of economic uncertainty. This includes tax cuts: For teachers who buy classroom supplies out of their own pockets, so they can continue to provide quality education for tomorrow’s workforce; To help families afford college tuition, so our young people can get the world-class education they deserve without going broke; To help families make homes more energy efficient and save money on utility bills while supporting jobs in the growing energy sector; and To allow taxpayers to continue to deduct state sales tax on their federal tax returns, so families can continue to use the tax deductions they count on. Business incentives to create jobs will reduce taxes by $10 billion over 10 years. Tax incentives supported by the Chamber of Commerce and National Association of Manufacturers include: Bonus Depreciation: Helps businesses quickly recover costs of new capital investments by extending the increased bonus depreciation for businesses making investments in new plants and equipment in 2009. Small Business Expensing: Spurs small business investment by extending small business expensing, doubling the amount small businesses can immediately write off their taxes for capital investments and purchases of new equipment made in 2009 ($125,000 to $250,000). This write-off phases out completely for investments over $800,000 (up from $500,000). Buying Back Debt: Provides assistance to companies looking to reduce their debt burdens by delaying the tax on businesses that have discharged indebtedness, which will help these companies strengthen their balance sheets so they can invest in job creation. Small Business Loss Carrybacks: Increases cash flow for small businesses by providing a 5-year carryback of net operating losses (NOLs). This would allow many small businesses to write off losses incurred in 2008 against taxes assessed over the previous 5 years (current law limits NOL carryback to the previous 2 years), thereby reducing their taxes this spring. Small Business Investment: Spurs investments in small businesses by cutting the capital gains tax on investors in small businesses who buy stock (in the next two years) and hold it for more than five years. Jobs for Recently Discharged Unemployed Veterans and Disconnected Youth: Creates jobs with business tax credits for hiring recently discharged unemployed veterans who have been out of work or youth who have been out of school for 6 months prior to hire. Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment (HIRE) Act: a bipartisan bill that will create 300,000 jobs with a payroll tax holiday for businesses that hire unemployed workers and an income tax credit of $1,000 for businesses that retain these employees. This legislation will unleash tens of billions of dollars to rebuild our infrastructure and strengthen small businesses with tax credits and accelerated write-offs, enabling them to expand and hire. # # #
04.14.2010	(Warren, OH) – Today, Congressman Ryan (OH-17) announced nearly $300,000 in grants for Ohio’s 17th District through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Department of Homeland Security. Recipients of the grant are: the City of Warren Fire Department ($214,020), the Palmyra Township Fire Department ($55,955), and the Springfield Township Fire Department ($25,560). “This is great news for our district,” stated Congressman Ryan. “By ensuring the health and safety of our firefighters and first responders, we are in turn ensuring the health and safety of our constituents. I’m very pleased with the results of this program funding round, but I will continue to work hard to obtain additional federal funding for our local governments who are struggling to provide necessary resources for the brave men and women in our fire and police departments.” Warren Mayor Michael O’Brien added that “This grant will provide necessary equipment and training for our firefighters that otherwise we would not have been able to purchase, due to a declining income tax base. Congressman Ryan has again successfully directed federal funds to fill in the financial gaps experienced by the City of Warren and similar communities in this difficult economic climate.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grants program awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public – as well as that of the first-responder personnel. Since 2001, the program has provided approximately $4 billion in grants for the purchase of emergency response equipment, personal protective equipment, firefighting and emergency vehicles, and training. # # #
04.12.2010	(Warren, OH) – On Friday, the U.S. Department of Commerce announced an affirmative final determination in the antidumping investigation on China’s exports of oil country tubular goods (OCTG). Commerce determined that Chinese producers and exporters have sold OCTG in the United States at margins ranging from 29.94 to 99.14 percent. When Chinese manufacturers sell OCTG in the United States at less than fair value, they are illegally undercutting the cost of domestic goods, resulting in an unfair advantage over American manufactured goods and substantial job losses. Regarding this landmark positive ruling, Congressman Ryan (OH-17) issued the following statement: “Friday’s positive announcement of significant duties to be placed on the export of Chinese steel pipe will continue to strengthen our domestic manufacturing industry,” stated Congressman Ryan. “This is why our government enforces fair trade laws – it is the most effective way that we can support American businesses and workers in the fight against illegal practices like predatory pricing. These countervailing duties will help to level the playing field for local manufacturers like V&M Star and Wheatland Tube, providing them with the security to invest in our communities and create new good-paying jobs.” Congressman Ryan has pursued comprehensive policies that protect American manufacturers from unfair trade practices. In addition to the above, he is the sponsor of the Currency Reform Fair Trade Act (H.R. 2378), which sits before the House Ways and Means Committee. The Congressman has also successfully lobbied the U.S. International Trade Commission on behalf of local manufacturing firms, and has co-written a letter with Congressman Mike Michaud (ME-01) that was signed by 130 members of Congress and sent to U.S. Secretaries Geithner and Locke regarding China’s continued currency manipulation. The U.S. International Trade Commission is expected to issue its final injury vote on May 10, 2010. # # #
04.12.2010	Americans overwhelmingly agree that our current health care system was due for reform. With tens of millions of uninsured residents, the costs of the system have skyrocketed – affecting business development, fiscal stability, and individual health and prosperity. The health reform law signed into law by President Obama is a solid—and long overdue—step in the right direction. Reform Supports Small Business and Job Growth Detractors of this health care legislation emphatically state that they don’t want to pay for the 32 million Americans who currently do not have health care. But in fact we already are paying for them. Each time these uninsured individuals go to the hospital – often to the emergency room, which is the most expensive form of care - and do not pay for that care, that cost burden is shifted to those Americans who do have health insurance. This is one reason why so many small businesses have seen massive increases in their health care premiums. The previous health care system placed an excessive burden on these employers – a burden that restricts economic development and job growth. In fact, in the past five years, small businesses have seen an average 129 percent increase in their health care costs. Under the new legislation, Congress has provided incentives for these overburdened small businesses and created more affordable coverage options. By utilizing a state-based health care marketplace that will be created in a few years, these small businesses will be able to join forces with other small businesses to increase buying power by decreasing costs. Additionally, small businesses that employ 50 or fewer employees – 96 percent of small businesses in America – will face no mandate to provide services and face no penalty for not doing so. And those businesses that employ 25 or fewer employees will receive a tax credit of up to 35 percent for providing insurance. Indeed, the Business Roundtable (an association of CEOs of leading American corporations) has stated that increased competition for health insurance will save businesses $3,000 per employee; savings that can be redirected to business growth and job creation. Reform Makes Financial Sense According to the Congressional Budget Office – a neutral, non-partisan federal agency – reform legislation will reduce the federal deficit by $138 billion over ten years and by another $1.2 trillion in the following decade. It is no surprise that our current health care system wastes money. And by addressing some fiscal abuses that can occur in programs like Medicare, our nation will save at least $50 billion per year; funds which can then be plowed back into the health care system. Except for a 0.9 percent tax on couples making over $250,000 per year, there will be no change to the cost of health care for American families. In fact, families earning under $90,000 will receive a subsidy to assist with the cost of insurance, and the Congressional Budget Office actually projects that reform will lower premiums slightly for group health plans and reduce premiums up to 20 percent for individuals purchasing their own insurance through the exchange. Reform Shifts Focus from Management to Prevention One of the greatest achievements of the health care reform legislation is the shift of emphasis from disease management to prevention. Instead of waiting for people to get sick and then spending exorbitant sums of money to address the problem, this new system will emphasize the prevention of illness, or the management of that illness from its onset. We can all agree that it makes financial sense to attack disease on the front end through encouraging healthy choices and preventative care, rather than waiting for serious illness to strike and increase the cost burden for all. Bottom line, this is a bill that reflects principles found on both sides of the aisle. Members of Congress debated the new health care reform law for 14 months. Senate Democrats incorporated approximately 150 Republican amendments into the final bill. And according to a recent USA Today/Gallup Poll, a majority of Americans approve of this legislation and support the various components included in the bill. Far from being a government takeover, health care reform is a well-deserved bailout for millions of middle-class, working Americans struggling to maintain affordable health insurance and for businesses trying to cope with the rising cost of benefits for their workers. We have a moral obligation to protect, empower, and improve the lives of our citizens. This legislation puts the health and well-being of the American people over the profits of insurance conglomerates, and I am proud to have supported it. # # #
04.09.2010	(Warren, OH) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) commented on the announcement by Forum Health that staff reductions in non-patient care management employees are imminent. According to Forum Health, the loss of up to 125 positions is the result of downward trends in patient volumes, lower reimbursement levels, and the effects of the state hospital franchise tax on not-for-profit hospitals. “Obviously, we are disappointed to learn that staff reductions are imminent at Forum Health,” stated Congressman Ryan. “However, my office will continue to work with the organization to emerge from bankruptcy proceedings with the goal of reaching financial stability and increasing its role in the marketplace.” # # #
04.05.2010	(Warren, OH) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) commented on the U.S. Treasury Department’s decision to delay the publication of the Exchange Rate Report. The text of Secretary Geithner’s statement follows this release. “I’m glad to see that the Obama Administration is taking the issue of China’s currency manipulation seriously,” stated Congressman Ryan. “By delaying the Exchange Rate Report, we are taking a step in the right direction. However, should this approach be unsuccessful, Congress must pass effective legislation that will level the playing field for American business interests and the American worker.” Congressman Ryan has long advocated for increased regulation regarding fair trade practices. The Congressman is the sponsor of the Currency Reform Fair Trade Act (H.R. 2378) and recently co-authored a letter with Congressman Mike Michaud (ME-02) that was signed by 130 members of Congress and sent to U.S. Secretaries Geithner and Locke regarding China’s continued currency manipulation. # # # From Secretary Geithner, U.S. Treasury Department: I have decided to delay publication of the report to Congress on the international economic and exchange rate policies of our major trading partners due on April 15. There are a series of very important high-level meetings over the next three months that will be critical to bringing about policies that will help create a stronger, more sustainable, and more balanced global economy. Those meetings include a G-20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors meeting in Washington later this month, the Strategic and Economic Dialogue (S&ED) with China in May, and the G-20 Finance Ministers and Leaders meetings in June. I believe these meetings are the best avenue for advancing U.S. interests at this time. As part of the overall effort to rebalance global demand and sustain growth at a high level, policy adjustments are needed that measurably strengthen domestic demand in some countries and boost saving in others. These are also important to ensure robust job growth. In the United States, private savings has increased, the current account deficit has fallen, and the President has outlined a series of measures to reduce our fiscal deficit. Countries with large external surpluses and floating exchange rates, such as Germany and Japan, face the challenge of encouraging more robust growth of domestic demand. Surplus economies with inflexible exchange rates should contribute to high and sustained global growth and rebalancing by combining policy efforts to strengthen domestic demand with greater exchange rate flexibility. This is especially true in China. China's strong fiscal and monetary response to the crisis enabled it to achieve economic growth of nearly 9 percent in 2009, contributing to global recovery. Now, however, China's continued maintenance of a currency peg has required increasingly large volumes of currency intervention. Additionally, China's inflexible exchange rate has made it difficult for other emerging market economies to let their currencies appreciate. A move by China to a more market-oriented exchange rate will make an essential contribution to global rebalancing. Our objective is to use the opportunity presented by the G-20 and S&ED meetings with China to make material progress in the coming months.
03.25.2010	Recovery Act Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grants Presented, along with Third Frontier Advanced Materials Awards WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) made the following statement upon the announcement of over $3.4 million in Recovery Act Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grants and $3 million in Third Frontier funding for advanced materials industries for Ohio’s 17th district. "Northeastern Ohio and its Tech Belt are becoming a launching pad for America’s alternative manufacturing future,” stated Congressman Ryan. “The announcement of these grants allows businesses in the 17th District to move forward with job creation and investment in growing industries while promoting the importance of sustainable energy innovation and the emerging technology required to create and refine it. I applaud President Obama, Governor Strickland, and their representatives for recognizing our community during the consideration of these grants.” Recovery Act Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grants for the 17th District Mahoning County (Energy Distribution) - $2,608,385 to replace the steam boiler system at OakHill Renaissance Place in Youngstown with modular, high-efficiency boilers that serve nine designated areas of the facility. Trumbull County (Renewable Energy Technologies) - $302,802 to install a 43.2 kilowatt solar electric system on the roof of the Job and Family Services building in downtown Warren. City of Kent (Energy Efficiency Retrofits) - $501,517 for the installation of a myriad of energy efficiency upgrades in ten city buildings, including lighting retrofits, upgraded HVAC systems with automated controls, load-managing device sensors on vending machines, two hot water boilers, and many other improvements. Third Frontier Advanced Materials Awards for the 17th District AlphaMirror Inc. of Kent, in collaboration with AlphaMicron, Elbit Systems and Magna Mirrors - $1 million to manufacture an affordable and environmentally friendly plastic film, auto dimming rear view mirror. Lockheed Martin MS2 Integrated Defense Technologies of Akron, in collaboration with Akron Polymer Systems, the University of Akron and Chemsultants International - $1 million to commercialize polymer- and nano-based films and adhesives for use in the hull fabric of Lockheed Martin's unmanned high-altitude airships. Kent Displays of Kent - $1 million to develop flexible liquid crystals, with a consumer application that includes creating an electronic skin that would permanently be integrated to the surface of an object. # # #
03.24.2010	(Warren, OH) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) appeared on Bloomberg Television to address the issue of China’s currency manipulation. The House Ways and Means Committee met to discuss illegal trade practices by the People’s Republic of China. The Congressman’s comments included, “We can’t do it by just being polite… we’ve got to take bold action” and “Somebody needs to take on China so that we can resuscitate manufacturing in the United States and put people back to work.” View the Congressman’s entire interview at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CwQVgKHshJM From the House Ways and Means Committee: Economists generally agree that the Chinese currency (the renminbi – “RMB” – or “yuan”) is substantially undervalued as a result of market intervention by the Government of the People’s Republic of China. This policy artificially raises the price of imports into China and suppresses the price of exports from China. The purpose of this hearing is to consider: (1) the immediate and long-term impact of China’s exchange rate policy on the U.S. and global economic recoveries and, more specifically, on U.S. job creation; and (2) steps that could be taken to address the issue. # # #
03.24.2010	(Warren, OH) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) joins 80 other members of congress in support for the Local Jobs for America Act (H.R. 4812). This legislation will provide funding to states, local government, and community-based organizations to save and create jobs through the retention or expansion of local community services – including teachers, police and fire. “The key to improving our economy is getting American citizens back to work,” stated Congressman Ryan. “This legislation will prevent the loss of tens of thousands of public sector jobs. The cost of inaction will be much greater than that of action.” This two-year, $100 billion piece of legislation will leverage one million public and private sector jobs. The details of the proposal include: $75 billion over two years to local communities, enabling them to hire vital staff; Funds 50,000 on-the-job private sector training positions; $23 billion to help states support 250,000 education jobs; $1.18 billion to put 5,500 law enforcement officers on the beat; and $500 million to retain, rehire and hire firefighters. # # #
03.23.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) commented today on the signing of the Health Care Reform Bill by President Obama: “I cannot think of a higher honor than being a part of this historic moment as President Barack Obama signs the Health Care Reform Bill into law. Today is living proof that we can still do great things in America, and to quote President Obama, ‘we are not a nation that scales back it’s aspirations’. My colleagues and I worked hard and made difficult decisions in order to create a bill that would bring real, tangible change to our communities and our country. In the 17th district, the benefits are real. Health Care Reform will: Improve coverage for 355,000 residents with health insurance. Provide tax credits and other assistance to up to 180,000 families and 12,300 small businesses to help them afford coverage. Improve Medicare for 109,000 beneficiaries, including closing the donut hole. Extend coverage to 39,000 uninsured residents. Guarantee that 9,300 residents with pre-existing conditions can obtain coverage. Protect 1,700 families from bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs. Allow 53,000 young adults to obtain coverage on their parents’ insurance plans. Provide millions of dollars in new funding for 4 community health centers. Reduce the cost of uncompensated care for hospitals and other health care providers by $11 million annually. Also, my staff and I will directly participate in this reform: effective 2014, all federal employees will use the health care exchange in lieu of their current coverage. I know that when my constituents witness the widespread impact of this bill, those who opposed it will find their fears unfounded, and those who supported it will finally get the relief they deserve. As Vice President Biden said earlier today, ‘history is made when passion is matched with principle.’” # # #
03.23.2010	"Over three years ago, we made a targeted federal investment in Zethus Software. And with today's announcement, our community will reap the benefits of that investment. Once again, a local company is stepping out onto the global stage. Zethus embodies our short- and long-term economic strategy: investment in the development of new technologies and public-private partnerships, and the utilization of universities as engines for private sector job creation. This new partnership will continue to highlight the Mahoning Valley’s world-class business environment, world-class talent, and world-class universities,” stated Congressman Ryan. “We congratulate all of the great talent at Zethus, and offer our continued support as they lead the great economic revival of our community.” # # # From Zethus Software: Bruker AXS and Zethus Software Signs Worldwide Strategic Partnership Munich, Germany and Youngstown, Ohio -- March 23, 2010 – Zethus Software, a leader in cloud storage technology and a Youngstown Business Incubator Portfolio company announces a worldwide strategic alliance with Bruker AXS. Under the terms of the agreement Bruker will strategically collaborate on an ongoing basis with Zethus in implementing and distributing the Zethus Cumulus CyberLab technology with Bruker AXS’ X-ray instruments. “We are extremely pleased in our partnership with Bruker AXS,” said Brad Myers, CEO of Zethus. “It validates our innovative technology and establishes our reach on a worldwide level.” Bruker AXS will strategically partner with Zethus Software to enable its advanced scientific instruments and data remotely accessible from anywhere in the world. The cutting-edge technology creates secure, virtualized data storage and remote instrument use in laboratories with small plug-and-play network appliances. The integration of scalable, managed data storage into the unified secure service is an essential and novel capability of cumulus CyberLab. About Zethus Software, LLC Zethus Software is a privately-held software development company focused on developing innovative solutions using grid and cloud computing technologies. Founded in 2003, the company’s customers include Fortune 1000 companies as well as significant educational and institutional clients. Zethus Software’s CyberLab technology was recently named as a finalist in the Nortech Innovation Awards which showcased Northeast Ohio’s finest examples of technology innovation. For more information on Zethus Software, please visit www.zethussoftware.com. For More Information For more information on Zethus Software, please visit www.zethussoftware.com For information about Bruker AXS and Bruker Corporation (NASDAQ: BRKR), please visit www.bruker.com
03.21.2010	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) made the following statement upon passage of H.R. 4872, the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010: “Today is a landmark day in our country’s history. After decades of debate, Congress has passed comprehensive health care reform that will benefit all Americans— including a tax credit of up to 50% for small businesses who provide insurance to their workers, and a $5,800 tax credit for families with a $50,000 household salary. Millions of individuals who cannot afford insurance or who have a pre-existing condition will get the relief they need. I applaud my colleagues for their hard work and tenacity, the many hundreds of organizations that supported this historic vote. I respect the viewpoints of those who have criticized this bill, but I can say with confidence that my vote today reflects the sentiments of my district – after receiving much constituent input via phone, petitions, conference calls and town hall meetings. As a result of this bill, pre-existing conditions will not affect insurance coverage, young adults will be able to remain on their parents’ insurance until the age of 26, and thousands of families will avoid bankruptcy due to the skyrocketing cost of health insurance. This legislation has provided us with a light at the end of the tunnel. Now that American families can remove the burden of rising health care costs from their shoulders, my work will continue to focus on bringing good jobs back home to the 17th district.” In Ohio’s 17th Congressional district, this health care reform bill will: Improve coverage for 355,000 residents with health insurance. Give tax credits and other assistance to up to 180,000 families and 12,300 small businesses to help them afford coverage. Improve Medicare for 109,000 beneficiaries, including closing the donut hole. Extend coverage to 39,000 uninsured residents. Guarantee that 9,300 residents with pre-existing conditions can obtain coverage. Protect 1,700 families from bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs. Allow 53,000 young adults to obtain coverage on their parents’ insurance plans. Provide millions of dollars in new funding for 4 community health centers. Reduce the cost of uncompensated care for hospitals and other health care providers by $11 million annually. # # #
03.20.2010	(Warren, Ohio) – Due to the pending vote on Health Care reform, the event at Girard High School honoring their achievement receiving a US News & World Report Bronze Medal for Best High Schools in America has been cancelled. Congressman Ryan and his staff are working with Superintendent Joe Jeswald to reschedule the event for a date in the near future. # # #
03.18.2010	Washington, DC – March 18, 2010. According to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, the current health reform bill will make health care affordable for the middle class, provide security for seniors, and guarantee access to health insurance for the uninsured – while reducing the federal deficit by over $100 billion in the next decade. In Ohio’s 17th Congressional District, the current health care reform bill will: Improve coverage for 355,000 residents with health insurance Give tax credits and other assistance to up to 180,000 families and 12,300 small businesses to help them afford coverage Improve Medicate for 109,000 beneficiaries, including closing the donut hole Extend coverage to 39,000 uninsured residents Guarantee that 9,300 residents with pre-existing conditions can obtain coverage Protect 1,700 families from bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs Allow 53,000 young adults to obtain coverage on their parents’ insurance plans Provide millions of dollars in new funding for four community health centers Reduce the cost of uncompensated care for hospitals and other health care providers by $11 million annually. Please see the attached document produced by the House Committee on Energy and Commerce for full information. # # #
03.17.2010	(Warren, Ohio) – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) today applauded the decision of Ways and Means Committee Chairman Sander M. Levin to hold a full committee hearing on China’s exchange rate policy. On Wednesday March 24, 2010, oral testimony will be heard from invited witnesses, and written statements will be submitted for the public record. “I have been advocating for a hearing in front of the House Ways and Means Committee for months,” stated Congressman Ryan. “Finally, our government is providing American businesses with the opportunity to voice concerns regarding China’s currency manipulation – an unfair and illegal trade practice that has resulted in the devastating loss of millions of American manufacturing jobs.” The hearing announcement was made on the heels of a letter co-written by Congressman Ryan and Congressman Mike Michaud (ME-02) and signed by 130 members of Congress that was sent to U.S. Secretaries Geithner and Locke regarding China’s continued currency manipulation. In addition, Congressman Ryan also sponsored the Currency Reform Fair Trade Act (H.R. 2378), which currently sits before the Ways and Means Committee. [LEVIN QUOTE] From the Committee on Ways and Means: Focus of the Hearing: Economists generally agree that the Chinese currency (the renminbi – “RMB” – or “yuan”) is substantially undervalued as a result of market intervention by the Government of the People’s Republic of China. This policy artificially raises the price of imports into China and suppresses the price of exports from China. The purpose of this hearing is to consider: (1) the immediate and long-term impact of China’s exchange rate policy on the U.S. and global economic recoveries and, more specifically, on U.S. job creation; and (2) steps that could be taken to address the issue. # # #
03.17.2010	(Warren, Ohio) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) commended the increasing support of pro-life individuals and groups in championing comprehensive health care reform for all Americans. On Wednesday March 17, the heads of major Catholic women’s religious orders (representing 59,000 women religious) encouraged all members of Congress to “cast a life-affirming ‘yes’ vote” on H.R. 3590. The announcement by the Catholic nuns comes on the heels of similar pleas for the passage of health reform by the U.S. Catholic Health Association (CHA) and a coalition of 25 pro-life religious individuals and groups. Congressman Ryan – a practicing Catholic, pro-life Democrat, and supporter of health reform – states: “When Congress passes comprehensive health care reform this week, we will make a tangible, positive difference in the lives of millions of Americans. Families with young children need not be fearful of a late-night fever. Working men and women need not be fearful of ‘pre-existing conditions’. Seniors need not be fearful of falling into a ‘donut hole’. Small business owners need not be fearful of bankruptcy due to the overwhelming cost of health insurance. The insurance industry, on the other hand, should indeed be fearful. Fearful of accountability. Fearful that rate increases will be repealed. Fearful of losing profits from skyrocketing premiums. We have a moral obligation to protect, empower, and improve the lives of our citizens. We have no obligation to support the skyrocketing profits of the insurance industry. This bill puts the American people over corporate profits, and I am proud to support it.” # # # CATHOLIC WOMEN RELIGIOUS SUPPORT LETTER March 17, 2010 Re: Pass healthcare reform by passing the Senate bill Dear Members of Congress: We write to urge you to cast a life-affirming “yes” vote when the Senate health care bill (H.R. 3590) comes to the floor of the House for a vote as early as this week. We join the Catholic Health Association of the United States (CHA), which represents 1,200 Catholic sponsors, systems, facilities and related organizations, in saying: the time is now for health reform AND the Senate bill is a good way forward. As the heads of major Catholic women’s religious order in the United States, we represent 59,000 Catholic Sisters in the United States who respond to needs of people in many ways. Among our other ministries we are responsible for running many of our nation’s hospital systems as well as free clinics throughout the country. We have witnessed firsthand the impact of our national health care crisis, particularly its impact on women, children and people who are poor. We see the toll on families who have delayed seeking care due to a lack of health insurance coverage or lack of funds with which to pay high deductibles and co-pays. We have counseled and prayed with men, women and children who have been denied health care coverage by insurance companies. We have witnessed early and avoidable deaths because of delayed medical treatment. The health care bill that has been passed by the Senate and that will be voted on by the House will expand coverage to over 30 million uninsured Americans. While it is an imperfect measure, it is a crucial next step in realizing health care for all. It will invest in preventative care. It will bar insurers from denying coverage based on pre-existing conditions. It will make crucial investments in community health centers that largely serve poor women and children. And despite false claims to the contrary, the Senate bill will not provide taxpayer funding for elective abortions. It will uphold longstanding conscience protections and it will make historic new investments – $250 million – in support of pregnant women. This is the REAL pro-life stance, and we as Catholics are all for it. Congress must act. We are asking every member of our community to contact their congressional representatives this week. In this Lenten time, we have launched nationwide prayer vigils for health care reform. We are praying for those who currently lack health care. We are praying for the nearly 45,000 who will lose their lives this year if Congress fails to act. We are also praying for you and your fellow Members of Congress as you complete your work in the coming days. For us, this health care reform is a faith mandate for life and dignity of all of our people. We urge you to vote “yes” for life by voting yes for health care reform in H.R. 3590. Sincerely, Signatures for 3-16-10 healthcare leadership letter Marlene Weisenbeck, FSPA LCWR President Leadership Conference of Women Religious Leadership Team Sisters of Mercy of the Americas Leadership Team Sisters of Charity of the Blessed Virgin Mary Joan Chittister, OSB Co-Chair Global Peace Initiative of Women Erie, PA Sr. Mary Persico, IHM President Congregation of the Sisters, Servants of the Immaculate Heart of Mary, Scranton, PA Sr. Susan Hadzima, IHM Councilor for Missioning and Community Life Sisters, Servants of the Immaculate Heart of Mary, Scranton, PA Mary Pelligrino, Marguerite Coyne, Rosanne Oberleitner, Carolyn Bodenshatz Leadership team Sisters of St. Joseph Baden, PA Sr. Helen McDonald, SHCJ Province Leader Society of the Holy Child Jesus Philadelphia, PA Vivien Linkhauer, SC Sisters of Charity of Seton Hill, United States Province Greensburg, PA Ruth Goodwin, OSF Sisters of St. Francis of Philadelphia Sister Barbara Hagedorn, SC Sisters of Charity of Cincinnati Mt. St. Joseph, Ohio Marilyn Kerber, SNDdeN Sisters of Notre Dame de Namur Canonical Representative, Ohio Province Sisters of St. Francis Tiffin, Ohio Leadership Team Sisters of the Precious Blood Dayton, OH Nancy Conway CSJ Congregation Leadership Team The Congregation of St. Joseph Joan Saalfeld, SNJM, Provincial Sisters of the Holy Names of Jesus and Mary U.S.-Ontario Province Jo'Ann De Quattro, SNJM Sisters of the Holy Names U.S.-Ontario Province Leadership Team Josephine Gaugier, OP Adrian Dominican Sisters Holy Rosary Mission Chapter Prioress Adrian, MI Kathleen Nolan, OP Adrian Dominican Sisters Office of the General Council Joan Mumaw, IHM – Vice President On behalf of the Leadership Council Sisters, Servants of the Immaculate Heart of Mary Monroe, MI Corinne Weiss, Servants of Jesus Leadership Team Saginaw MI Beatrice Haines, OLVM President, Our Lady of Victory Missionary Sisters Huntington, IN Eileen C. Reid, RJM Provincial Superior Religious of Jesus and Mary Washington DC Sister Cecilia Dwyer, O.S.B. Prioress Benedictine Sisters of Virginia Sr. Dorothy Maxwell, Councilor Sisters of St. Dominic Blauvelt, New York Adrian Dover OP Prioress Dominican Sisters of Houston, Texas Francine Schwarzenberger OP Dominican Sisters of Peace Denver, Colorado Rose Mary Dowling, FSM President Franciscan Sisters of Mary Margaret Byrne CSJP - Congregation Leader Teresa Donohue CSJP - Assistant Congregation Leader Sisters of St. Joseph of Peace Sr. Carmelita Latiolais, S.E.C. Sisters of the Eucharistic Covenant Sheral Marshall, OSF Provincial Councilor Sisters of St Francis The Congregation of Sisters of St. Agnes Sister Joann Sambs, CSA General Superior The Leadership Team of the Sisters of St. Joseph of the Third Order of St. Francis Sister Jane Blabolil, SSJ-TOSF Sister Michelle Wronkowski, SSJ-TOSF Sister Dorothy Pagosa, SSJ-TOSF Sister Linda Szocik, SSJ-TOSF Sr. Mary Genino (RSHM), Provincial Religious of the Sacred Heart of Mary Western American Province. Debra M. Sciano, SSND Provincial Leader Milwaukee Province, School Sisters of Notre Dame Sister Liz Heese School Sisters of St. Francis US Province, Milwaukee, WI Marlene Weisenbeck, FSPA, President Franciscan Sisters of Perpetual Adoration La Crosse, WI Sharon Simon, OP President Racine Dominicans Maryann A. McMahon, O.P. Vice President Dominican Sisters of Racine, WI Agnes Johnson, OP Vice President Racine Dominicans Pat Mulcahey, OP Prioress of Sinsinawa Dominicans Theresa Sandok, OSM Servants of Mary (Servite Sisters) Ladysmith, Wisconsin Sister Maureen McCarthySchool Sisters of St. FrancisU.S. Provincial TeamMilwaukee, WI Dolores Maguire Sisters of the Holy Faith Northern California LCWR Region XIV Patricia Anne Cloherty, PBVM Leadership Team, Sisters of the Presentation, San Francisco Pam Chiesa, PBVM President Sisters of the Presentation, San Francisco Gloria Inés Loya Leadership Team Sisters of the Presentation, San Francisco Gloria Marie Jones, OP Dominican Sisters of Mission San Jose Congregational Prioress and Council Mary Litell Provincial Councilor Sisters of St. Francis of Penance and Christian Charity St. Francis Province Sr Claire Graham SSS General Director Sisters of Social Service Encino CA Sr. Gladys Guenther SHF Sisters of the Holy Family Congregational President Fremont, CA Sister Patricia Rayburn, OSF, Provincial Minister, Sisters of St. Francis, Redwood City, CA Sisters of St. Louis, California Region Marianites of Holy Cross Sr. Suellen Tennyson, MSCCongregational Leader New Orleans, LA Sister Clare of Assisi Pierre, SSF Sisters of the Holy Family New Orleans, LA Congregation of Our Lady of Mount Carmel Sister Elizabeth Fitzpatrick, O.Carm. Sister Andree Bindewald, O.Carm. Lacombe, Louisiana Sister Marla Monahan, SND Provincial Sisters of Notre Dame (St. Claire Regional Medical Center in Morehead, KY and St. Charles Care Center in Covington, KY) Sr. Mary Elizabeth Schweiger, OSB Subprioress Mount St. Scholastica Atchison, KS Janice Cebula, OSF President Sisters of St. Francis, Clinton, Iowa Mary Rehmann, CHM President Congregation of the Humility of Mary Davenport, IA CATHOLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION SUPPORT LETTER March 11, 2010 U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC Dear Representative: On behalf of the Catholic Health Association of the United States (CHA), the national leadership organization of more than 2,000 Catholic health care sponsors, systems, hospitals, long-term care facilities, and related organizations, I am writing to urge you to move quickly to enact health reform by passing the Senate-approved legislation in conjunction with a second “corrections” bill providing for necessary legislative fixes that will improve the overall package. As a longtime advocate of health reform, CHA and its members are committed to creating a health care system that ensures everyone will get the health care they need, when they need it. The 47 million individuals without insurance, the 16 million individuals who are underinsured, and the insured who have trouble affording their current coverage are all in desperate need of improvements to our health care system. It has been clear for many years now that fundamental, comprehensive reform of the health care system is not merely a financial or political issue, but a moral imperative as well. We commend Congress for all your efforts over the past year on behalf of those failed by the current system, and urge you to bring those efforts to fruition as quickly as possible. The Senate legislation goes a long way toward meeting the goals of reform, including expanding coverage to over 30 million of the uninsured through Medicaid expansion, tax credits and subsidies; providing much-needed reforms of the private insurance market; bending the cost curve of the health system by supporting delivery system reforms that improve quality of care, patient outcomes, and efficiency; and addressing federal spending levels by being fully paid for and reducing the deficit by $100 billion over the next ten years. CHA, however, believes the Senate legislation should be amended through a “corrections” bill to address the following issues: • The corrections bill should increase tax credits for low-income individuals and families to ensure affordability of coverage, as outlined in the President’s recent legislative proposal; • The bill should increase Medicaid primary care service reimbursement rates to Medicare levels to ensure access to services and providers; • The bill should reduce the cuts to Medicaid disproportionate share hospital (DSH) payments to ensure hospitals will be able to continue to care for the most vulnerable; • The bill should retain the Senate provisions applying the 340B drug discount program to inpatient drugs enabling hospitals that serve a large volume of low-income and uninsured patients to purchase inpatient drugs at a discounted rate; and • The bill should ensure that the final, overall health reform package will provide no federal funding for abortion. As you are undoubtedly aware, the next several weeks offer what is most probably the best opportunity to enact health reform during the current Congress, and make real and significant progress toward improving the lives and health security of millions of Americans. We hope that you will step up to the challenge before us to make reform a reality, and we pledge to support you and all those in favor of reform in this effort. If you have any questions or need further assistance, please do not hesitate to contact me or any member of CHA’s advocacy staff. Sincerely, Sr. Carol Keehan, DC President and CEO PRO-LIFE LEADER SUPPORT LETTER March 11, 2010 Dear Member of Congress: As Christians committed to a consistent ethic of life, and deeply concerned with the health and well-being of all people, we want to see health care reform enacted. Our nation has a rare and historic opportunity to expand coverage to tens of millions of people, make coverage more affordable for all families, and crack down on many of the most harmful practices of the health insurance industry. We are writing because of our concern about the lack of clear and accurate information regarding abortion provisions in the health care reform bill passed by the Senate on December 24, 2009. Reforming our health care system is necessarily complex and the provisions related to abortion, or any other issue, require careful examination of the facts as they exist in the legislative language. We believe that the provisions below provide extensive evidence that longstanding restrictions on federal funding of abortion have been maintained. Furthermore, this bill provides new and important supports for vulnerable pregnant women. Following is a comprehensive factual listing of all provisions related to abortion and positive supports for pregnant women in HR 3590, along with specific page references. Abortion Related Provisions included in the Senate Approved Health Care Reform Bill “Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act” (HR 3590 EAS/PP) • Prohibits the Secretary of HHS from requiring the coverage of any abortion services as part of the essential health benefits for any qualified health plan offered in a state insurance Exchange (pg. 2070); • Allows the insurance company to decide whether or not to include coverage of abortion services, including the Hyde abortion exceptions, in a qualified health insurance plan offered in a state insurance Exchange (pg. 2070); • Prohibits insurance companies from using federal funds, including federal tax credits and costsharing assistance, to pay for abortion services except for those services allowable under the Hyde amendment (pg. 2071); • Requires an insurance company that chooses to offer a plan in a State Exchange with abortion coverage, beyond the Hyde abortion exceptions, to collect a separate second premium payment from each enrollee for the cost of the abortion coverage (pgs. 2071-2072 & 2074-2075); • Requires the insurance company to deposit all separate payments into a separate account that consists solely of abortion premium payments and that it is used exclusively to pay for such services (pgs. 2072-2074); • Requires the state health insurance commissioners to ensure that insurance companies comply with these requirements in accordance with guidance and accounting standards set by the Office of Management and Budget and the Government Accountability Office (pg. 2075); • Requires insurance companies that offer general abortion coverage as part of a qualified health plan to provide a notice of coverage in the summary of benefits and coverage explanation (pg. 2076); • Allows states to pass a law prohibiting the inclusion of abortion coverage in plans offered in a state health insurance Exchange (pg. 2069); • Requires the director of the Office of Public Management to ensure that there is at least one private, multi-state qualified health plan offered in each state insurance Exchange that does not provide coverage of abortion services beyond the Hyde exceptions (pgs. 2087-2088); • Prohibits insurance companies offering qualified health plans from discriminating against any individual health care provider or health care facility because of its unwillingness to provide, pay for, provide coverage of, or refer for abortions (pg. 2076); • Prohibits the preemption of state laws regarding abortion (pg. 2077); • Maintains current Federal laws relative to conscience protection; willingness or refusal to provide abortion; and discrimination on the basis of the willingness or refusal to provide, pay for, cover, or refer for abortion or to provide or participate in training to provide abortion (pg. 2077); • Establishes and provides $250 million for programs to support vulnerable pregnant women (pgs. 2170-2173); and • Increases the adoption tax credit and makes it refundable so that lower income families can access the tax credit (pgs 2400-2407). We are now at a critical moment in the history of our country. More than 30 million Americans may finally gain access to a health care system that is affordable -- providing families, children and seniors with fundamental care that is essential to human dignity. We respectfully ask that you make an informed decision about this legislation based on careful deliberation guided by facts. Sincerely, Morna Murray President Catholics in Alliance for the Common Good Ron Sider President Evangelicals for Social Action Rev. Jim Wallis President and CEO Sojourners Stephen F. Schneck Director, Institute for Policy Research & Catholic Studies The Catholic University of America Joel Hunter Senior Pastor Northland Church Dr. David P. Gushee Chair New Evangelical Partnership for the Common Good David O’Brien Professor of Faith and Culture University of Dayton Francis Xavier Doyle Former Associate General Secretary U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops Jean Stokan Director Institute Justice Team Sisters of Mercy of the Americas Lisa Cahill Professor of Theology Boston College Bryan N. Massingale, S.T.D. President, Catholic Theological Society of America Associate Professor of Theology Marquette University David DeCosse Director of Campus Ethics Programs Markkula Center for Applied Ethics Santa Clara University Nicholas P. Cafardi Dean Emeritus and Professor of Law Duquesne University School of Law Dennis M. Doyle Religious Studies University of Dayton Terrence W. Tilley Avery Cardinal Dulles, S.J. Professor of Catholic Theology Chair, Theology Department Fordham University Richard Gaillardetz Murray/Bacik Professor of Catholic Studies University of Toledo Vincent J. Miller Professor Department of Religious Studies University of Dayton Alex Mikulich Research Fellow Jesuit Social Research Institute Loyola University Sandra A. Yocum, Ph.D. Chair of Religious Studies University of Dayton Rev. Dr. Cynthia L. Hale Senior Pastor Ray of Hope Christian Church, Decatur, GA Dr. Barbara Williams Skinner President Skinner Leadership Institute Cheryl Bridges Johns Professor of Christian Formation & Discipleship Pentecostal Theological Seminary Brian McLaren Author, Speaker and Founding Pastor Cedar Ridge Community Church Glen Stassen Lewis B. Smedes Professor of Christian Ethics Fuller Theological Seminary Lisa Sharon Harper Executive Director, NY Faith & Justice Author, Evangelical Does Not Equal Republican...or Democrat
03.17.2010	“Pete Starks was a legendary and influential political figure in Youngstown. His knowledge, humor, and passion for local politics will be sorely missed,” stated Congressman Ryan. “My thoughts are with his family and friends, as well as the many individuals who loved and were guided by him.” # # #
03.16.2010	(Washington, DC) Earlier today, U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) addressed U.S. Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner regarding Delphi retiree pensions in an Appropriations committee hearing regarding the FY 2011 Budget Request and Economic Outlook. Congressman Ryan expressed the need for decisive action on behalf of the 70,000 retirees (5,000 of whom reside in the 17th District) that have been affected by severe pension cuts. “I continue to hear horror stories from my constituents who are Delphi union and salaried retirees, and I will ardently repeat their message to Secretary Geithner at every available opportunity. Policy supported by this Administration has led to very positive economic development announcements in my district – in order to continue that success, it is imperative that this Administration swiftly address the needs of these workers and retirees,” said Congressman Ryan. “I have held a hearing in the House of Representatives, testified before the Senate, and spoken with the President and many cabinet level officials regarding this issue. These people are not commodities. They are my neighbors and my friends; little league coaches and bible school teachers. They are respected members of this community – and they deserve better treatment.” Congressman Ryan has been a leader in the efforts to provide security for the supplemental and pension benefits of Delphi retirees, and has held discussions with both state and federal officials—including a meeting with President Obama on Air Force One—to address this critical issue and its local impact in the event of inaction. In July 2009, Congressman Ryan introduced legislation to provide funding for a Voluntary Employees Beneficiary Association (VEBA) which would cover Delphi hourly and salaried employees and retirees that lost their health coverage through Delphi and GM’s Chapter 11. Last year, the House Education and Labor Committee conducted a hearing on the pensions and benefits cut because of the Delphi Corporation bankruptcy. The decision came after a request made by Congressman Ryan to Committee Chairman George Miller (Committee on Education and Labor) and Subcommittee Chairman Rob Andrews (Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions). A YouTube video of Congressman Ryan’s remarks to Secretary Geithner can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kxiwj14VP14 # # #
03.15.2010	Warren, Ohio – Today Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) joined President Barack Obama at a rally in Strongsville, Ohio to support the fight for comprehensive health care reform. “Our government has a moral obligation to protect American citizens from an abusive health care system that diminishes our life and liberty,” stated Congressman Ryan. “Comprehensive health care reform will ensure that doctors and families have the freedom to make their own health care decisions. It will ensure that small businesses have the ability to offer quality health care plans to their employees without bankrupting that business.” Sympathetic agencies and groups continue to express support for the comprehensive overhaul of our health care system. Additionally, this weekend the pro-life Catholic Health Association – an alliance of over 600 Catholic-run hospitals in the United States –announced its support for an improved bill that would benefit millions of Americans. And last week, 25 leaders of the Christian community signed a letter (attached) to Members of Congress stating that “our nation has a rare and historic opportunity to expand coverage… make coverage more affordable… and crack down on many of the most harmful practices of the health insurance industry.” # # # March 11, 2010 Dear Member of Congress: As Christians committed to a consistent ethic of life, and deeply concerned with the health and well-being of all people, we want to see health care reform enacted. Our nation has a rare and historic opportunity to expand coverage to tens of millions of people, make coverage more affordable for all families, and crack down on many of the most harmful practices of the health insurance industry. We are writing because of our concern about the lack of clear and accurate information regarding abortion provisions in the health care reform bill passed by the Senate on December 24, 2009. Reforming our health care system is necessarily complex and the provisions related to abortion, or any other issue, require careful examination of the facts as they exist in the legislative language. We believe that the provisions below provide extensive evidence that longstanding restrictions on federal funding of abortion have been maintained. Furthermore, this bill provides new and important supports for vulnerable pregnant women. Following is a comprehensive factual listing of all provisions related to abortion and positive supports for pregnant women in HR 3590, along with specific page references. Abortion Related Provisions included in the Senate Approved Health Care Reform Bill “Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act” (HR 3590 EAS/PP) • Prohibits the Secretary of HHS from requiring the coverage of any abortion services as part of the essential health benefits for any qualified health plan offered in a state insurance Exchange (pg. 2070); • Allows the insurance company to decide whether or not to include coverage of abortion services, including the Hyde abortion exceptions, in a qualified health insurance plan offered in a state insurance Exchange (pg. 2070); • Prohibits insurance companies from using federal funds, including federal tax credits and cost sharing assistance, to pay for abortion services except for those services allowable under the Hyde amendment (pg. 2071); • Requires an insurance company that chooses to offer a plan in a State Exchange with abortion coverage, beyond the Hyde abortion exceptions, to collect a separate second premium payment from each enrollee for the cost of the abortion coverage (pgs. 2071-2072 & 2074-2075); • Requires the insurance company to deposit all separate payments into a separate account that consists solely of abortion premium payments and that it is used exclusively to pay for such services (pgs. 2072-2074); • Requires the state health insurance commissioners to ensure that insurance companies comply with these requirements in accordance with guidance and accounting standards set by the Office of Management and Budget and the Government Accountability Office (pg. 2075); • Requires insurance companies that offer general abortion coverage as part of a qualified health plan to provide a notice of coverage in the summary of benefits and coverage explanation (pg. 2076); • Allows states to pass a law prohibiting the inclusion of abortion coverage in plans offered in a state health insurance Exchange (pg. 2069); • Requires the director of the Office of Public Management to ensure that there is at least one private, multi-state qualified health plan offered in each state insurance Exchange that does not provide coverage of abortion services beyond the Hyde exceptions (pgs. 2087-2088); • Prohibits insurance companies offering qualified health plans from discriminating against any individual health care provider or health care facility because of its unwillingness to provide, pay for, provide coverage of, or refer for abortions (pg. 2076); • Prohibits the preemption of state laws regarding abortion (pg. 2077); • Maintains current Federal laws relative to conscience protection; willingness or refusal to provide abortion; and discrimination on the basis of the willingness or refusal to provide, pay for, cover, or refer for abortion or to provide or participate in training to provide abortion (pg. 2077); • Establishes and provides $250 million for programs to support vulnerable pregnant women (pgs. 2170-2173); and • Increases the adoption tax credit and makes it refundable so that lower income families can access the tax credit (pgs 2400-2407). We are now at a critical moment in the history of our country. More than 30 million Americans may finally gain access to a health care system that is affordable -- providing families, children and seniors with fundamental care that is essential to human dignity. We respectfully ask that you make an informed decision about this legislation based on careful deliberation guided by facts. Sincerely, Morna Murray President Catholics in Alliance for the Common Good Ron Sider President Evangelicals for Social Action Rev. Jim Wallis President and CEO Sojourners Stephen F. Schneck Director, Institute for Policy Research & Catholic Studies The Catholic University of America Joel Hunter Senior Pastor Northland Church Dr. David P. Gushee Chair New Evangelical Partnership for the Common Good David O’Brien Professor of Faith and Culture University of Dayton Francis Xavier Doyle Former Associate General Secretary U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops Jean Stokan Director Institute Justice Team Sisters of Mercy of the Americas Lisa Cahill Professor of Theology Boston College Bryan N. Massingale, S.T.D. President, Catholic Theological Society of America Associate Professor of Theology Marquette University David DeCosse Director of Campus Ethics Programs Markkula Center for Applied Ethics Santa Clara University Nicholas P. Cafardi Dean Emeritus and Professor of Law Duquesne University School of Law Dennis M. Doyle Religious Studies University of Dayton Terrence W. Tilley Avery Cardinal Dulles, S.J. Professor of Catholic Theology Chair, Theology Department Fordham University Richard Gaillardetz Murray/Bacik Professor of Catholic Studies University of Toledo Vincent J. Miller Professor Department of Religious Studies University of Dayton Alex Mikulich Research Fellow Jesuit Social Research Institute Loyola University Sandra A. Yocum, Ph.D. Chair of Religious Studies University of Dayton Rev. Dr. Cynthia L. Hale Senior Pastor Ray of Hope Christian Church, Decatur, GA Dr. Barbara Williams Skinner President Skinner Leadership Institute Cheryl Bridges Johns Professor of Christian Formation & Discipleship Pentecostal Theological Seminary Brian McLaren Author, Speaker and Founding Pastor Cedar Ridge Community Church Glen Stassen Lewis B. Smedes Professor of Christian Ethics Fuller Theological Seminary Lisa Sharon Harper Executive Director, NY Faith & Justice Author, Evangelical Does Not Equal Republican...or Democrat
03.09.2010	(Warren, Ohio) – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) will be available to the press this morning at 11:50 am regarding his efforts to address unfair trade practices by China. Recently, Congressman Ryan and Congressman Mike Michaud of Maine drafted a letter to U.S. Secretary of the Treasury Tim Geithner and U.S. Commerce Secretary Gary Locke to address the growing problems associated with China’s continued currency manipulation (text of letter attached). Thomas Gibson, President and CEO of the American Iron and Steel Institute, is urging legislators to sign on to this letter on behalf of the American manufacturing industry. This is the latest in a string of efforts by Congressman Ryan to stem China’s illegal efforts to create a favorable trade environment for their products and goods. “China continues to flout international trade laws by manipulating its currency value to increase its trade advantages,” stated Congressman Ryan. “This is completely unacceptable. All that our people are asking for is a level playing field. Local manufacturing firms like GE Lighting, Severstal Steel, V&M Star, Wheatland Tube and Backyard Buddies are doing everything in their power to stay afloat during a difficult economy while China continues to break the rules at every turn. I am fighting – and will continue to fight – on their behalf, forcing China to play fair and discontinue these illegal trade practices.” Congressman Ryan is the sponsor of the Currency Reform Fair Trade Act (H.R. 2378). This legislation will protect U.S. manufacturers from unfair trade practices by determining whether the exchange rate of the currency of an exporting country is fundamentally under/overvalued against the U.S. dollar, by providing an opportunity for affected American industries to seek remedies for currency misalignment, and by creating incentives for foreign governments to cease unfair trade practices. The bill is currently before the house Subcommittee on Ways and Means. The Congressman has also successfully lobbied the U.S. International Trade Commission to rule in favor of tariffs on manufacturing goods including tires and steel pipe, and will continue to pursue comprehensive policies that will protect American manufacturers from unfair trade practices. WHO: Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) WHAT: Currency Manipulation and Unfair Trade WHEN: TODAY, MARCH 9 11:50 AM WHERE: Starbucks Coffee Rt. 46, Austintown # # # March 8, 2010 The Honorable Timothy Geithner The Honorable Gary Locke Secretary Secretary U.S. Department of Treasury U.S. Department of Commerce 1500 Pennsylvania Ave., NW 1401 Constitution Ave., NW Washington, D.C. 20220 Washington, D.C. 20230 Dear Secretary Geithner and Secretary Locke: We write to express our serious concerns about China’s continued manipulation of its currency. By pegging the renminbi (RMB) to the U.S. dollar at a fixed exchange rate, China unfairly subsidizes its exports and disadvantages foreign imports. As we work to promote a robust U.S. economic recovery, it is imperative that we address this paramount trade issue with all available resources. We urge your agencies to respond to China’s currency manipulation in the actions outlined below. Doing so will allow American companies and workers to compete fairly against their Chinese counterparts and will boost U.S. economic recovery and growth. The impact of China’s currency manipulation on the U.S. economy cannot be overstated. Maintaining its currency at a devalued exchange rate provides a subsidy to Chinese companies and unfairly disadvantages foreign competitors. U.S. exports to the country cannot compete with the low-priced Chinese equivalents, and domestic American producers are similarly disadvantaged in the face of subsidized Chinese imports. The devaluation of the RMB also exacerbates the already severe U.S-China trade deficit. Statistics show that between January 2000 and May 2009, China’s share of the U.S. trade deficit for non-oil goods grew from 26% to 83% -- an untenable pattern for American manufacturers. And finally, China’s exchange-rate misalignment threatens the stability of the global financial system by contributing to rampant Chinese inflation and accumulation of foreign reserves. For these compelling reasons, we ask your agencies to pursue the course of action below. First, we urge the Department of Commerce to apply the U.S. countervailing duty law in defense of American companies who have suffered as a result of the currency manipulation. The U.S. is permitted to respond to subsidized imports where the elements of a subsidy are met under the countervailing duty law. The countervailing duty law outlines a three-part test to identify the presence of a countervailable subsidy: 1) that it involves a financial contribution from the government; 2) that it confers a benefit; and 3) that is specific to an industry or a group of industries. China’s exchange rate misalignment meets all three parts of this test and therefore merits the WTO-permitted application of countervailing duties. Second, we ask the Department of Treasury to include China in its bi-annual agency report on currency manipulation. Since 1994 Treasury has not identified China as a country that manipulates its currency under the terms of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 (“Trade Act of 1988”), but Secretary’s Geithner testimony to the Senate acknowledging that fact surely justifies the inclusion of China in the report. After labeling the country as a currency manipulator, Treasury should enter into negotiations with China regarding its foreign exchange regime. These combined actions will signal the government’s willingness to take decisive action against China’s currency manipulation, including the potential filing of a formal complaint with the World Trade Organization. The recommendations identified above must be done in concert with intense diplomatic efforts, not only with China but also with the IMF and multi-laterally with other countries. Through a combined strategy of legal action and international pressure, it is possible China will revisit its undervaluation of the RMB. If these efforts are not successful, we ask the Administration to consider all the tools at its disposal, including the application of a tariff on Chinese imports, to respond to China’s currency manipulation. The economic impact of the RMB undervaluation on American businesses and workers is too great for the Administration not to pursue a comprehensive effort. This economic downturn has underscored the pressing need to promote policies that protect U.S. jobs and U.S. businesses. Addressing China’s manipulation of its currency must be a critical part of our strategy to rebuild our economy and establish safeguards against future financial crises. The Administration has the legal ability and resources to protect American businesses in the face of China’s RMB devaluation, and we urge you to exercise this authority expeditiously. Thank you for your consideration of this letter. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, Congressman Tim Ryan Congressman Mike Michaud
03.03.2010	(Warren, Ohio) – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) and Governor Ted Strickland pledged their support for the Youngstown Early College program, which was recently terminated by the Board of Directors at Youngstown State University due to budget shortfalls. Following the announcement of the program termination at YSU, Congressman Ryan and Governor Strickland spoke with Dr. Laura Meeks, President of the Eastern Gateway Community College, to gauge the interest of her institution in continuing this successful college preparation program. The Congressman and Governor also wrote a letter to the YSU Board of Trustees (text of letter is attached to this release) requesting assistance in transitioning the Early College program from YSU to EGCC. “The provision of a quality education for all of our Valley’s young people is the highest priority of this community, and Youngstown Early College is a valuable tool in the pursuit of that goal” stated Congressman Ryan. “Governor Strickland and I believe strongly in this successful college-prep program and will do whatever we can to ensure a productive and seamless transition from YSU to EGCC.” Governor Strickland added, “We have made a commitment to education in Ohio, and have worked to preserve important programs and opportunities even as we face budget difficulties. Programs like the Youngstown Early College program are critical to student success and preparation for college and the workforce. We will work with the education community in Youngstown to make sure that this program is available for students for years to come.” Find more information regarding Youngstown Early College here. Find more information regarding Eastern Gateway Community College here. # # # March 3, 2010 Board of Trustees Youngstown State University One University Plaza Youngstown, Ohio 44555 Dear Members of the Youngstown State University Board of Trustees: We recently became aware of your decision to end the role with the Youngstown Early College program, and are looking for ways and assistance to preserve this critical and highly successful program. It has been our position since the vote was taken that we would do all that we can to make sure a successful program like Early College would continue. With the support of Dr. Wendy Webb, Youngstown City Schools Superintendent, we have initiated discussions with the Administration of Eastern Gateway Community College and have a commitment from them to continue the Early College. We are very excited by that prospect and are very grateful to Dr. Laura Meeks, President of Eastern Gateway Community College, and for the enthusiasm and support she has shown for the Early College. To help in the transition from YSU to Eastern Gateway Community College, we are asking for the support of the YSU Board of Trustees in allowing the Early College to remain at its present site on the YSU campus for the 2010-2011 academic school year. In addition, we are asking that other matters-to be identified by both Youngstown State University and Eastern Gateway Community College-be open to negotiation so that the transition for the students be as effortless and seamless as possible. Eastern Gateway Community College has also made a commitment to work with Youngstown City Schools and negotiate an equitable agreement to continue the Early College. We believe that the Early College is an asset to the students it educates and the community at large. We want to ensure that it continues-and that educating our children remains the highest priority. We hope that you will join us in this endeavor as we work to move the Early College from Youngstown State University to Eastern Gateway Community College. We look forward to hearing from you. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, Governor Ted Strickland Congressman Tim Ryan This letter has been endorsed by the following Legislators: Senator Capri Cafaro State Rep. Sandra Harwood State Rep. Robert Hagan Senator Joseph Schiavoni State Rep. Tom Letson State Rep. Ron Gerberry
02.26.2010	(Warren, Ohio) – On Sunday, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) will join Governor Ted Strickland, Dr. Laura Meeks of Eastern Gateway Community College, and Dr. Roy Church of Lorain County Community College to discuss the proposed downtown Warren location of the Eastern Gateway Community College. The Congressman and Governor will be available for comment. WHO: Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) and Governor Ted Strickland WHAT: Eastern Gateway Community College WHEN: Sunday, February 28 at 2:15 pm WHERE: Congressman Ryan’s District Office 197 West Market Street, Warren Following the EGCC meeting, Congressman Ryan and Governor Strickland will meet with local labor leaders to discuss current issues and projects in the 17th District. The Congressman and Governor will be available for comment. WHO: Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) and Governor Ted Strickland WHAT: Meet and Greet with Local Labor Leaders WHEN: Sunday, February 28 at 3:30 pm WHERE: The Sunrise Inn East Market Street, Warren On Monday, Congressman Ryan will present a check for $100,000 to the United Way for their “Success by Six” program. Success by Six will encourage parents to sign their children up for school at an early age in order to provide testing and remediation (if necessary) in order to improve success rates. The program will hire at least 15 full- and part-time teachers and support personnel. The Congressman will be available for comment after the event. For more information, visit the Success by Six program at the Youngstown-Mahoning County United Way website. WHO: Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) WHAT: Success by Six WHEN: Monday, March 1 at 10:00 am WHERE: South Range School Columbiana County On Monday evening, the Congressman will attend an ACTION public forum to discuss developments regarding the Eastern Gateway Community College. The Congressman will be available for comment after the event. For more information, visit ACTION online. WHO: Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) WHAT: ACTION Public Forum re: Eastern Gateway Community College WHEN: Monday, March 1 at 7:00 pm WHERE: Liberty High School Trumbull County # # #
02.24.2010	(Warren, Ohio) – Today, Allegiant Air announced that it would expand its service at the Youngstown-Warren Regional Airport to include flights to Myrtle Beach, South Carolina. Allegiant currently runs flights from Youngstown-Warren to Orlando, Florida. “The end of a cold February is the perfect time to announce additional flights from the Youngstown-Warren Regional Airport to a sunny, southern location,” noted Congressman Ryan. “Regional cooperation and the forward-thinking leadership of current and past Chairmen of the Western Reserve Port Authority, Scott Lynn and John Masternick, have led to the expansion of Allegiant Air’s investment in the Mahoning Valley. This announcement reinforces the positive economic news that our Valley has been receiving over the last several weeks. And as we continue to add significant numbers of good-paying jobs to our community, our residents will be able to afford a few days of well-earned vacation.” For more information, visit Allegiant Air online. # # #
02.23.2010	Warren, Ohio – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) commended the announcement of a third shift for the Lordstown General Motors plant that will produce the Chevrolet Cruze beginning in the third quarter of 2010. "President Obama and Congress made the unpopular but necessary decision to take partial ownership of General Motors and guide it through bankruptcy,” said Congressman Ryan. “This bold step may have saved manufacturing in the United States from being wiped out. As a result of that leadership, not only were the Mahoning Valley and Northeast Ohio community spared an economic catastrophe, we now stand to reap the benefits of those tough decisions.” The Congressman added, “I commend the workers at the GM Lordstown plant for their leadership and maturity. Without their skills, talents and positive attitude, this day would have never come. I would like to thank Governor Strickland for his constant attention to the Mahoning Valley and the 17th Congressional District. His input and guidance have been instrumental in not only this project, but in every one of our economic successes over the past few weeks. And I would also like to commend Senator Sherrod Brown for his powerful voice on behalf of our domestic manufacturing base. The American auto-industry has no better friend in the Senate. It's clear that our local economic development strategy is working: another 1,200 high-paying jobs in Lordstown, corporate investment of $650 million and 350 permanent jobs at V&M Star, 500 more jobs expected at VXI in downtown Youngstown, a San Francisco technology company bringing up to 100 jobs to the Youngstown Business Incubator in the next two years, and Severstal Steel returning to work in Warren. I believe that this is the beginning of the Miracle on the Mahoning.” # # #
02.22.2010	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) announced today that over 230 workers of Denman Tire Corporation in Leavittsburg were certified to receive important job training and placement assistance from the U. S. Department of Labor. According to the report issued today: “All workers of Denman Tire Corporation, Leavittsburg, Ohio, who became totally or partially separated from employment on or after November 9, 2008, through two years from the date of certification, and all workers in the group threatened with total or partial separation from employment on date of certification through two years from the date of certification, are eligible to apply for adjustment assistance under Chapter 2 of Title II of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended." “The training and job placement assistance that will be given to these workers will put them at an advantage in this very competitive job market,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “I’m proud of the effort by the USW Local 98L that was placed to make sure the hardships of these hardworking men and women were recognized. We have been in constant contact with USW officials, and I will not be happy until Denman is up and running and that all USW members are back to work. I will continue to do everything in my power to make that a reality.” * Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) and Alternative Trade Adjustment Assistance (ATAA) help trade-affected workers who have lost their jobs as a result of increased imports or shifts in production out of the United States. Certified individuals may be eligible to receive one or more program benefits and services depending on what is needed to return them to employment. (Source: https://www.doleta.gov/tradeact/benefits.cfm) A copy of the Department of Labor Employment and Training Administration report can be found at https://www.doleta.gov/tradeact/taa/taadecisions/72818.txt. # # #
02.19.2010	(Warren, OH) Today, U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) will host Jane Oates, Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor at his district office in Warren. They will be joined by representatives from the Eastern Gateway Community College and Trumbull County One-Stop and other agencies to discuss the positive impact of American Recovery and Reinvestment Act funds on the ability to build the capacity of our local and regional workforce. All media is welcome to attend. Who: Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) and Jane Oates, Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor What: Meeting and Press Availability Where: Warren OH-17 District Office 197 West Market Street Warren, Ohio 44481 When: FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2010 2:00 PM – 3:15 PM About Jane Oates: Assistant Secretary Oates leads the Employment and Training Administration (ETA) in its mission to design and deliver high-quality training and employment programs for our nations’ workers. Ms. Oates works with states, territories, municipalities, labor management organizations, employers, educational institutions, fellow federal agencies, and other partners to assist workers in gaining the skills and credentials needed to further their careers. She will be visiting the Mahoning Valley on Friday to discuss various issues related to employment, training, and education. # # #
02.19.2010	(Warren, OH) U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) will judge the Warren “HOG” Chili cook-off at the Warren Harley Davidson on Saturday, February 20. Various types of homemade chili will be submitted, with tasting to last until noon. All proceeds benefit the SCOPE food pantry. Congressman Ryan will be available for comment; details follow. Saturday, February 20 at 10:30 am Warren “HOG” Chili Cook-Off Harley Davidson 2102 Elm Road, Cortland --- On Monday, Congressman Ryan will present a check to the Weathersfield Police Department, Niles Police Department, and McDonald Police Department for the Weathersfield Regional Interoperability Communication Project – which will build a 190-foot self-supporting communication tower that will provide updated and improved communications between the three communities – allowing all safety and emergency services to communicate effectively. Congressman Ryan will be available for comment; details follow. Monday, February 22 at 3:30 pm Weathersfield Regional Interoperability Communication Check Presentation Weathersfield Police Department 1451 Prospect Street, Mineral Ridge # # #
02.18.2010	(Warren, OH) On Thursday, U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) will attend the groundbreaking for the Bridgestone Technology Center in Akron, tour the Akron YMCA, and learn more about the far-reaching work of Ravenna’s Swagelok Company. Congressman Ryan will be available at each event for comment; details of the events follow. 8:45 am to 10:15 am Bridgestone Groundbreaking 1659 South Main Street, Akron Congressman Ryan will join Governor Strickland and other local, state, and federal officials at the groundbreaking ceremony for the new Bridgestone technology center. Bridgestone has been in Akron for over 100 years, and hope to continue their strong presence in the community. 1:30 pm to 2:15 pm Community Impact Tour at Akron YMCA 209 South Main Street, Akron The Akron YMCA has been invested in its community since 1931, providing a wide range of services for local residents. Congressman Ryan will join the YMCA executive team, board members, and volunteers in a site tour/discussion of current and new programs and projects. 4:00 pm to 4:45 pm Swagelok Company Site Tour 935 North Freedom Street, Ravenna Swagelok Company is a billion-dollar, privately-held company that designs, manufactures, and delivers a range of high-quality fluid system products and solutions. Swagelok has authorized sales and service centers located in 57 countries on six continents. # # #
02.18.2010	(Warren, OH) U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) made the following comment regarding the groundbreaking of the new Bridgestone technical center in Akron: “This exciting investment in the Bridgestone technical center will facilitate the creation of good-paying jobs that will keep our kids in Northeast Ohio,” noted Congressman Ryan. “Today’s groundbreaking is the result of an unprecedented level of public and private cooperation on local, state, and federal levels. These many partners came together to support the continued investments of a company with historic ties to the city of Akron – all to ensure that Bridgestone is provided with the necessary resources to refine their product and continue to serve national and international markets.” # # #
02.17.2010	(Youngstown, OH) Today, U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) announced a $20 million investment in the Kent Multi-Modal Transportation Center – a critical component of the Kent Central Gateway Project – through the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) Discretionary Grant Program, part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). Funding for the Kent Multi-Modal Transportation Center will leverage an estimated $105 million in public and private investment, create approximately 1,000 jobs (300 construction and 700 permanent), and provide a projected $5.8 million increase in annual tax revenue. According to the Portage Area Regional Transportation Authority, each dollar invested in the Kent Central Gateway Project will stimulate an additional $4 in new investment in Kent and Portage County. Congressman Ryan has previously secured over $1.4 million for the initial phases of this far-reaching project. Congressman Ryan stated, "This is absolutely fantastic news for Kent and Portage County, and further proof that the Obama Administration’s stimulus package is putting people to work while improving the fabric of our communities. The Multi-Modal Transportation Center is the lynchpin of the Kent Central Gateway Project – a massive, community-wide redevelopment effort that will showcase all of the vibrant economic, social, and educational amenities that downtown Kent and Kent State University have to offer.” “I would also like to thank President Obama and U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and their staff members,” the Congressman added. “Without their support and the availability of critical stimulus funds, this project would not be possible.” The construction of the Kent Multi-Modal Transportation Center in downtown Kent will improve transit accessibility and provide needed regional linkages to Cleveland and Akron. This innovative, eco-friendly project includes ten bus bays with indoor/outdoor waiting areas, as well as retail, restaurant, and office space. Construction is expected to begin on this shovel-ready project within nine months. Additional developments in the Kent Central Gateway Project include: main street restoration, a hotel and conference center, a downtown corporate campus, Haymaker Parkway improvements, Acorn Alley and the Phoenix Project, and the Kent State University Esplanade extension. # # #
02.16.2010	(Youngstown, OH) U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) made the following comment regarding the appointment of Dr. Cynthia Anderson as the new President of Youngstown State University. "Dr. Cynthia Anderson is a great choice for Youngstown State University and the Mahoning Valley,” noted Congressman Ryan. “Dr. Anderson’s work as Vice President for Student Affairs has enabled her to initiate productive partnerships with many of her colleagues throughout the university system. In addition, the selection of a current YSU employee (and former YSU student) speaks volumes about the caliber of professionals located right here in our Valley. I am certain that Dr. Anderson’s dedication to our community will only increase in her position as YSU President, and I am excited to begin working with her as we continue to forge even stronger partnerships between the university and its surrounding community.” # # #
02.15.2010	(Youngstown, OH) On Tuesday, February 16, U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) will join Kevin O’Brien of Revere Data in announcing the firm’s new research office in Youngstown. Revere will be located in the Semple Building on West Federal Street as part of the Youngstown Tech Block, anchored by the Youngstown Business Incubator. Between 15 and 20 well-paying professional positions will be filled within nine months, with a target of 40 new hires made in the next 18 months. “Revere is exactly the type of company that we’re seeking to bring back to the District,” said Congressman Ryan. “This innovative, California-based research firm has strong ties to Youngstown and has chosen to locate its new facility here based on the support of the Youngstown Business Incubator and Youngstown State University, as well as the great quality of life offered by our Valley. This project is a huge win for Youngstown.” Who: Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) What: Announcement of Revere Data Jobs – Part of YBI Tech Block Where: Semple Building, Downtown Youngstown When: TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2010 at 3:30 PM About Revere Data: Revere Data, LLC, is a leading provider of financial information services that gives investors a better understanding of the cornerstone of all companies: the products and services they sell. Revere goes deep inside companies to search, discover and classify their products and services, their focused lines of business, and their key business relationships. Products such as Revere Hierarchy™ and Revere Relationships™ deliver a precise view of the market for thousands of publicly traded companies in the US, Canada, China, Western Europe, and Brazil. Revere offers a comprehensive suite of data, online research, and index services for the investment community. For more information, please visit www.reveredata.com # # #
02.15.2010	(Youngstown, OH) U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) applauds the announcement of a $650 million investment that will be made by Vallourec at their V&M Star facility in Youngstown/Girard, Ohio. V&M Star is North America’s leading producer of seamless tubular products, with three locations in Youngstown, Houston, and Oklahoma. The Cities of Youngstown and Girard negotiated a cooperative agreement in 2009 to redraw jurisdictional boundaries and implement shared tax revenues in order to move the project forward, and millions of dollars in American Recovery and Reinvestment Act stimulus funds were utilized to prepare the site for expansion. "Today's unprecedented announcement by Vallourec is a watershed event for the Mahoning Valley,” stated Congressman Ryan. “This $650 million investment will result in hundreds of new jobs, and sends a clear message that we have a world-class workforce and a globally-competitive business climate. Businessmen and investors from across the globe will be coming to this facility to view the most technologically-advanced steel production facility in the world. Simply put, this is the game changer for the Mahoning Valley." The Congressman added, "My sincere thanks go out to the leadership at V&M Star, to Governor Ted Strickland for his commitment of $20 million in stimulus funds, and to Senator Sherrod Brown for his leadership and support. I would also like to thank the Regional Chamber and all the local elected officials who worked so hard to make this project a reality, as well as U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and his staff, and Ohio Department of Transportation Director Jolene Molitoris and her staff for their extraordinary efforts to allow us to use stimulus funding to make the site competitive. Without these crucial ARRA funds made available through the Obama Administration, today's announcement would not have been possible." # # #
02.12.2010	(Warren, OH) On Monday, U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) will be hosted by William Boyd, new President and CEO of Thomas Steel Strip Corporation at its facility on Delaware Avenue in Warren. Members of the press are invited on a brief site tour with Congressman Ryan, Mr. Boyd, and Dr. Martin Abraham, Dean of the STEM College at Youngstown State University, after which they will be available for comment regarding new product development, green manufacturing opportunities, and potential research and development partnerships with YSU. Who: Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) What: Site Visit and Press Availability Where: Thomas Steel Strip Corporation Delaware Avenue NW Warren, Ohio 44485 When: MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2010 at 12:00 PM About Thomas Steel Strip Corporation: Since its founding in the 1920s, Thomas Steel Strip has been one of the most innovative companies in the field of electroplated cold-rolled strip. As a pioneer of many new technologies, Thomas Steel Strip today supplies a wide range of plated cold-rolled strip products. For more information, please visit: https://www.corusgroup.com/en/company/divisions/strip_products_division/corus_special_strip/production_sites/thomas_steel_strip/ # # #
02.08.2010	Warren, Ohio – U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) made the following statement regarding the death of Congressman John Murtha: “This is a very sad day, indeed. To our nation, Congressman John Murtha was a bold leader and renowned legislator: a trusted advisor to Presidents and a powerful advocate for issues of national defense. To his constituents in southwestern Pennsylvania, Congressman Murtha was a tireless champion: generating tens of thousands of jobs after the collapse of the coal and steel industries that helped to sustain middle-class families and advance a diversified economic base. To me, Jack Murtha was an advisor, a mentor, and most importantly – a friend. He was a fiery man of principle who fought passionately for his district and the hard-working people of our region; I consider myself to be a better legislator and advocate for having known him, and for that I will be forever grateful.” # # #
02.04.2010	Warren, Ohio – U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) made the following statement regarding the Youngstown-Warren Regional Airport: “I am very concerned that the FAA’s efforts to separate radar and tower traffic services in Ohio have not received the necessary vetting and scrutiny to ensure that the realignment of these facilities will have any benefit to the flying public or the American taxpayer,” stated Congressman Ryan. “I have joined my fellow Ohio representatives in calling for a postponement of these efforts until the Obama Administration and Congress can implement a transparent review process that includes vital industry stakeholders – ensuring that these realignments serve their stated purpose: to provide operational benefit to users, increase safety, increase system efficiency, and save money.” # # #
02.02.2010	Warren, Ohio – U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) made the following statement regarding the ArcelorMittal Warren Coke Operations: “Today, ArcelorMittal confirmed the restart of its blast furnace and steel-producing operation at Indiana Harbor Works in East Chicago. It is my understanding that ArcelorMittal and the United Steelworkers (USW) continue to hammer out the details for a restart of the ArcelorMittal Warren Coke Operations that could bring approximately 65 people back to work. Paired with the best GDP growth since late 2003 (5.7 percent seasonally adjusted annual rate in the final three months of 2009), I take this to be a very encouraging sign that the Obama Administration’s stimulus plan is moving our economy forward and paying dividends to the constituents of the 17th District. The bottom line is: people are going back to work.” # # #
02.02.2010	Warren, Ohio – U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) commented today on President Obama’s small business announcement: “I am encouraged by President Obama’s announcement to reinvest $30 billion of TARP funds directly into our economy to promote the growth and sustainability of small businesses, and indeed I would hope we could even increase the allocation. Our local economy is driven by a large number of small, often family-owned and minority businesses – and I have seen too many of them struggle to get adequate credit during this recession. The President’s program potentially can facilitate the retention and expansion of existing businesses, preserving existing and creating new jobs for the 17th District. I also hope that the Administration will consider the expansion of program funding for port authorities who offer economic development bond fund programs which will spur private investment activity and create jobs. I will soon be introducing a bill to provide federal funding for these programs and believe that they will play a critical role in expanding credit for small businesses. # # #
02.01.2010	Budget Contains Program Funding Modeled on Congressman Ryan’s Legislation Warren, Ohio – U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) commented today on President’ Obama’s 2010 budget: “My office received a copy of President Obama’s proposed budget this morning, and I look forward to continuing its review. So far, I am very encouraged to see the proposed investments for Ohio – including tax cuts for 4.5 million families and $1.9 billion to fix the state’s infrastructure. As a member of the House Appropriations committee, I want to make sure that we get full value out of every dollar invested, and that the focus be on job creation. These investments will hit home and foster job growth in key industries, while bringing needed relief for our state’s hardworking middle-class families. Specifically, I am pleased with the establishment of the Catalytic Investment Competition Grants program, which will assist economically distressed communities with the significant challenges of urban decay and abandoned property. This funding shows that the Administration is placing necessary emphasis on providing communities with resources to deal with the overwhelming issues of blight, vacancy and population loss, recognizing the importance of community-wide planning in this effort. The language and intent of the program appears to be modeled after my Community Regeneration, Stabilization, and Innovation Act legislation that I introduced in the House (HR 932), and I applaud the continued allocation of funds to address the overwhelming issues faced by communities in measurable economic distress. I will work over the course of debate to ensure that these investments make their way to the 17th District, which now – more than ever – needs these critical resources.” # # #
01.26.2010	Warren, Ohio – U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) commented today on Governor Ted Strickland’s State of the State Address: "I commend Governor Ted Strickland as he continues to fight for Ohio families and our state’s economic future during these difficult times. I am especially pleased with his efforts to place Ohio at the cutting edge of energy technology. Successful programs like the Ohio Third Frontier and Energy Gateway Fund have created unprecedented capital investments in advanced energy job creation – helping cast off Ohio’s ‘Rust Belt’ image and moving the state forward as ‘America’s Energy Gateway’. Like Governor Strickland, I believe in Ohio, and I believe that our renewal lies before us – not behind us. Investments in energy technology have already begun to make an impact in the 17th District, from Clean Coal Fuel Cell Development at the University of Akron to Advanced Fuels Research at Youngstown State University and the future Alternative Energy Incubator in Warren. We are at the forefront of an energy revolution that will rebuild our economy through investment, innovation, and education.” # # #
01.25.2010	(Warren, OH) U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) commented today on word that Severstal Warren will return to service its blast furnace, steelmaking, and hot strip mill facilities late in the first quarter of 2010: "This is fantastic news for our local economy and workforce. Severstal Warren is one of the largest employers in the 17th Congressional District – the reactivation of its local operations will not only return skilled laborers to their jobs, but will directly and positively impact the region’s economic health through increased income and corporate taxes, water and sewer fees, and ancillary job creation within our local supply network. The return of steelmaking at Severstal is one more sign that President Obama’s Stimulus Bill is generating the demand necessary to jumpstart a sluggish national economy and improve the local business climate through future opportunities in green manufacturing. I couldn’t be more excited about this announcement and look to provide whatever assistance possible as Severstal Warren resumes its operations.”
01.22.2010	(Warren, OH) On Saturday, U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) will attend the State Championship Celebration for Youngstown’s Ursuline and Cardinal Mooney High Schools. In December 2009, Cardinal Mooney defeated Columbus St. Francis DeSales to claim the OHSAA Division III Football Championship; Ursuline defeated Coldwater 55-25 the OHSAA Division V Football Championship. What: State Championship Celebration for Ursuline High School Football Team and Cardinal Mooney High School Football Team Where: Covelli Centre, Downtown Youngstown When: SATURDAY, JANUARY 23, 2010 at 10:00 AM - - - - - Congressman Ryan will also play in the Hope Foundation’s 2010 Game of Hope charity basketball game on Saturday. Since 2005, the Game of Hope charity basketball game has raised nearly $40,000 for chronically and terminally ill children throughout the region. For more information, visit www.hopemv.org. What: Game of Hope Charity Basketball Game Where: Youngstown State University’s Beeghly Center When: SATURDAY, JANUARY 23, 2010 at 4:00 PM - - - - - Congressman Ryan is also participating in Monday’s event for the Children’s Center for Science & Technology which will unveil plans for the facilities, exhibits and programs, and capital campaign for the new CCST in downtown Youngstown. For more information, visit www.valleykids.org. What: Children’s Center for Science & Technology Media Event Where: McCrory Building, Downtown Youngstown When: MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2010 at 10:30 AM # # #
01.21.2010	(Warren, OH) U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) will join Youngstown Mayor Jay Williams in the announcement of that city’s partnership with ShotSpotter on Friday. Congressman Ryan will be presenting Mayor Williams and the Youngstown Police Department with a $530,000 check for the installation of ShotSpotter Wireless Gunshot Location System technology that will track, target, and deter gun crime over a two-mile area in the city. Mayor Williams and Chief Hughes will hold a press conference regarding the technology immediately following the check presentation. Funding for the ShotSpotter project was made available through a federal earmark secured by Congressman Ryan via the Bureau of Justice Assistance. Who: Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) What: ShotSpotter Check Presentation and Press Conference Where: Youngstown City Hall 23 S. Phelps Street When: FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2010 11:30 AM # # #
01.15.2010	What: YSU Office of Student Diversity Annual King Celebration Workshop: “Health Care as a Human Right” Where: First Presbyterian Church 201 Wick Avenue Youngstown, OH When: 9:00 AM - - - What: Green Energy Wind Turbine and Solar Panel Dedication Where: Electrical Trades Institute of Northeast Ohio 4550 Research Parkway Warren, OH When: 10:00 AM # # #
01.14.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) today issued the following statement after a major magnitude 7.0 earthquake hit the nation of Haiti, earlier this week: "My thoughts and prayers go out to the families that have been affected by this devastating earthquake. I am monitoring the situation very closely and will use my resources to ensure that swift disaster relief is sent to Haiti and the Haitian people at this time. I ask that all Americans please keep the Haitian people and all victims of this disaster in their thoughts and prayers." The U.S. State Department, in conjunction with the American Citizen Services, has set up a hotline for U.S. Citizens If there are any U.S. citizens wondering about their family in Haiti, the U.S. State Department is working with the American Citizen Services and have set up a phone line. The number is 1-888-407-4747. Additionally, the Mahoning, Trumbull and North Columbiana chapters of the Red Cross are accepting donations for immediate disaster relief. Send donations, earmarked for Haiti relief, to: Mahoning Chapter Red Cross, 8392 Tod Ave., Boardman, Ohio 44512, (330) 726-6063; Trumbull Chapter, 661 Mahoning Ave. NW, Warren, Ohio 44483, (330) 392-2551; or North Columbiana County, 5843 Ohio 45, Lisbon, Ohio 44432-9396, (330) 424-6610. Donations are also being accepted online, at www.redcross.org. # # #
01.14.2010	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement on the announcement of the second round of Neighborhood Stabilization Program funding: “I am stunned by the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s rejection of the Mahoning Valley’s outstanding application for Neighborhood Stabilization Program funds. I have already communicated my disbelief to the White House and HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan, and I intend to pursue all avenues available to ensure that the communities within the 17th District have the resources necessary to carry out these important revitalization programs. Mayor Jay Williams and I are scheduled to meet with the White House next week regarding Youngstown’s 2010 Plan; after today’s announcement, our elimination from the NSP program will be at the top of our agenda.” Congressman Ryan has already made phone calls to the White House and the Department of Housing and Urban Development. A letter expressing the Congressman’s disappointment was sent to President Obama this afternoon; it has been attached to this release. # # #
01.13.2010	Warren, OH – U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement on the announcement by Google concerning its business in China: “Four years ago, I hosted a briefing on Internet freedom in China before the Congressional Human Rights Caucus, which is now the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission. An invitation was extended to Google executives, so that they might explain their rationale for launching a censored domestic version of Google in China. That invitation was declined. China has one of the most sophisticated content-filtering Internet regimes in the world. Chinese authorities rely upon the resources, cooperation, and technology of American companies – including Google – to carry out basic human rights violations including the suppression of free speech and free press. The Chinese government has done everything in its power to deny its citizens the freedom of the Internet: monitoring all information, deleting phrases like “Dalai Lama”, “Tiananmen Square massacre”, “democracy”, and “Voice of America” from websites, and utilizing routers that block banned sites altogether. A free and open internet in China has significant potential to positively impact the lives of its citizens. It is about time that Google rethought its position on the censorship of its search engine. Human rights and democratic values should never be come in second to the search for profits. When American corporations defer to repressive policies like those that China inflicts upon its own people, it sends a signal that America is no longer the champion of free and open societies throughout the world.” # # #
01.13.2010	(Warren, OH) U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) applauds over $235,000 in Family Self-Sufficiency grants awarded by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to three Public Housing Agencies within the 17th District. In the current funding cycle, Akron Metropolitan Housing Authority has been awarded $127,730.00; Trumbull Metropolitan Housing Authority, $48,620.00; and Youngstown Metropolitan Housing Authority, $59,518.00. Congressman Ryan stated that “this Administration and my colleagues in Washington have a true commitment to the continued funding of successful programs like the HUD Family Self-Sufficiency initiative. These programs empower our local Public Housing Agencies to continue their excellent work in providing low- and moderate-income Americans with the training and practical skills necessary for success.” “To date, the AMHA Family Self Sufficiency program has assisted 46 families gain employment and further their educational opportunities,” said Anthony O’Leary, Executive Director of the Akron Metropolitan Housing Authority. “Through this grant renewal, our agency will assist an additional 80 families. This is one of our most important and popular resident programs and we appreciate being able to continue this program.” “The Family Self-Sufficiency program has certainly been the main catalyst for our residents to achieve fiscal independence. We at TMHA are extremely grateful to be able to continue this initiative,” said Donald Emerson, Executive Director of the Trumbull Metropolitan Housing Authority. Clifford Scott, Executive Director of the Youngstown Metropolitan Housing Authority added, “This continued funding is a testament to the hard work of the YMHA staff, Congressman Ryan, and the local HUD field office in Cleveland, all of whom have banded together to consistently further the lives of low- to moderate-income individuals and families.” The HUD Family Self-Sufficiency program encourages communities to develop local strategies that will help families obtain employment necessary for economic independence and self-sufficiency. Through the program, public housing agencies link residents with public service agencies, schools, businesses, and other local partners in a comprehensive manner – providing participants with the skills and experience to obtain employment that pays a living wage. Additional Family Self Sufficiency Program information can be accessed at the HUD program website: https://www.hud.gov/offices/pih/programs/hcv/fss.cfm#1 # # #
01.11.2010	Detroit, MI – U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) joins House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and a bipartisan congressional delegation of legislators at the North American International Auto Show in Detroit. On this trip, Members of Congress will witness first-hand the innovative technologies in which the auto industry is investing to strengthen the nation’s manufacturing base, create sustainable jobs, and ensure future competitiveness. “With the introduction of the Chevrolet Cruze in 2010, the Lordstown Assembly Plant is positioning itself as a leader in building the next generation of smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles,” said Congressman Ryan. “The $350 million investment by General Motors in the Lordstown plant speaks volumes about the valuable partnerships between management and unions. Further, it displays the Valley’s strong commitment to implementing state-of-the-art manufacturing techniques within our existing industrial base, including the integration of sustainable, environmentally-friendly cost saving programs.” After a $350 million investment in the local Lordstown plant, General Motors begins production of the Chevrolet Cruze this year, with cars scheduled to roll of the assembly lines in August. The Cruze’s progressive design affirms the commitment of General Motors and Chevrolet to build refined, fuel-efficient vehicles to increase global and national competitiveness. # # #
01.07.2010	(Warren, OH) This afternoon, Congressman Tim Ryan, Senator Sherrod Brown, and ODOD Director Lisa Patt-McDaniel will discuss the impact of the International Trade Commission’s recent ruling regarding Oil Country Tubular Goods imported from China. William Kerins, President of Wheatland Tube Co., and Roger Lindgren, President and COO of V&M Star Steel, will join the legislators to address the potential positive effects of this ruling on their local operations. Regarding the decision, Congressman Ryan stated that, “For years, our manufacturers have been fighting a flood of inferior Chinese products in the American market. The recent ITC decision regarding the placement of tariffs on steel pipe and its previous decision regarding rubber tires move us in the right direction toward leveling the playing field for local businesses including V&M Star and Wheatland Tube. Senator Brown and I will continue to work with the ITC and the Obama Administration to seek tariffs for other Chinese products that threaten to undermine the economic health of this nation.” Senator Brown added that, “Trade enforcement means jobs. For too long, domestic manufacturers like Wheatland Tube and V&M Star faced an inexcusable flood of Chinese products made with unfair subsidies. By enforcing trade law, we will ensure a fair playing field and save jobs.” WHO: Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH), and Ohio Department of Development Director Lisa Patt-McDaniel WHAT: Press conference regarding recent International Trade Commission ruling re: tariffs on Oil Country Tubular Goods imported from China WHEN: THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 2010 at 1:30 PM WHERE: Wheatland Tube Co. 901 Dietz Road NE Warren, Ohio 44483 # # #
01.06.2010	(Washington, DC/Warren, OH) This morning, U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) will join U.S. Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis in the announcement of $100 million in energy partnership training grants that will be awarded in part to job training organizations in Trumbull County, Youngstown and Akron, as well as other Ohio communities. Funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, these green grants will support the necessary job training that will lead to high-paying jobs in a new clean economy. “Our outstanding award recipients were selected because their proposed projects will connect workers to career pathways in green industries and occupations through diverse partnerships,” said Secretary Solis. Congressman Ryan added, “These critical funds mark this Administration’s commitment to advancing our economy through sustainable jobs and technology, sparking a ‘green’ revolution that I believe will be led by the people and companies of the 17th District and throughout Ohio. Manufacturing is our legacy; green manufacturing is our future. We are poised to create sustainable, high-paying jobs that will catapult us to the forefront of emerging industries.” WHO: U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan and U.S. Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis WHAT: Press teleconference to announce local green grant awards, as authorized by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 WHEN: WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2009 at 10:00 AM Remarks will be followed by a question-and-answer session All media planning to call in are requested to notify the Department of Labor’s Office of Public Affairs at 202-693-4676. # # #
01.04.2010	(Warren, OH) This morning, U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) will be hosted by Larry Gross of Backyard Buddy, Inc. at their plant on Dana Street in Warren. The Congressman will tour the site with Larry Gross and discuss the recent ITC ruling to place tariffs on steel imported from China. At that time, the Congressman will also make himself available to members of the press for comments. Who: Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) What: Press Availability Where: Backyard Buddies 140 Dana Street NE Warren, OH 44483 When: MONDAY, JANUARY 4, 2010 10:45 AM # # #
12.18.2009	Warren, Ohio – U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) today announced that 17 local students have been nominated to attend national military academies. Five students have been nominated for the Military Academy at West Point, five students have been nominated for the U.S. Air Force Academy, and seven students have been nominated for the U.S. Naval Academy. “I am proud to nominate each of these students to be considered for acceptance to our nation’s military academies,” stated Congressman Ryan. “Once again, this is a very impressive group of applicants – and these academies serve to develop our young people intellectually, physically, and militarily to create tomorrow’s leaders. I am grateful to have the privilege to nominate such dedicated and inspiring students.” Each nominee completed an application and interview with the 17th District Nomination Committee, and the group will be honored at a breakfast with Congressman Ryan on Sunday, December 20, 2009. The nominated high school seniors are as follows: Student Academy High School Parents Ryan McCollum Army Warren JFK HS Ron and Amy McCollum Ben Beasley Army Green HS David and Carmen Beasley Joseph Charnas Navy Lakeview HS Craig and Nancy Charnas Dominic Donofrio Army Lowellville HS John and Lisa Donofrio Robert Sadinsky Air Force Walsh Jesuit HS Robert and Christine Sadinsky David Haury Navy Tallmadge HS Rick and Susan Haury Elizabeth Cunniff Air Force St. Vincent-St. Mary HS John and Ann Cunniff Sean Murphy Navy Poland HS Dennis and Nancy Murphy Jacob Palmer Air Force Green HS Jeff Palmer and Debbie Perkins Jacob Berg Air Force Maplewood HS Phillip and Denise Berg Conor Banyon Navy McDonald HS Gregg and Kathryn Banyon Jacob Barker Navy Austintown Fitch HS Charles and Elaine Barker Peter Stan Navy Champion HS Keith and Jennifer Brainard Zachary Horovitz Army Field HS Bradley and Laura Horovitz Michael McClearn Air Force Howland HS John and Lisa McClearn Oliver Fryer Army University School Gary Fryer and Vera Ceglarek Sam Thomas Navy Kent HS John and Nancy Thomas Press Advisory WHO: U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan WHAT: Military Academy Nominee Breakfast WHERE: McMenamy’s Banquet Center 325 Youngstown Warren Road Niles, OH 44446 WHEN: SUNDAY, DECEMBER 20, 2009 11:30 am # # #
12.17.2009	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) announced today that approximately 130 workers at Steel Forming Inc. in Youngstown and Multiserv in Warren were certified to receive important job training and placement assistance from the U. S. Department of Labor. According to the report issued today: “All workers of Steel Forming, dba Commercial Metal Forming, including on-site leased workers from Ryan Alternative Staffing and Robert Half International, Youngstown, Ohio, who became totally or partially separated from employment on or after May 4, 2008, through two years from the date of certification, and all workers in the group threatened with total or partial separation from employment on the date of certification through two years from the date of certification, are eligible to apply for adjustment assistance under Chapter 2 of Title II of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended.” “All workers of Multiserv, Warren, Ohio who became totally or partially separated from employment on or after Septmeber 28, 2008, through two years from the date of certification, and all workers in the group threatened with total or partial separation from employment on the date of certification through two years from the date of certification, are eligible to apply for adjustment assistance under Chapter 2 of Title II of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended.” “ I thank President Obama and Secretary Solis for understanding the urgency of these requests. Employees of Steel Forming and Multiserv will receive the education and training they need to find employment to support themselves and their families,” said Congressman Ryan. * Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) and Alternative Trade Adjustment Assistance (ATAA) help trade-affected workers who have lost their jobs as a result of increased imports or shifts in production out of the United States. Certified individuals may be eligible to receive one or more program benefits and services depending on what is needed to return them to employment. (Source: https://www.doleta.gov/tradeact/benefits.cfm) # # # A copy of the Department of Labor Employment and Training Administration reports are attached to this message.
12.17.2009	Copenhagen, Denmark/Youngstown, Ohio – Today in Copenhagen, while world leaders meet to craft plans to combat global warming, an iconic American Rust Belt city and a bold U.S. environmental nonprofit announced a partnership to advance sustainable, ‘green’ city goals. U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), Youngstown Mayor Jay Williams, and Global Green USA CEO and President Matt Petersen announced that this innovative partnership will initiate a climate and neighborhood sustainability action plan to create green jobs and sustainable development in Youngstown, Ohio. Ryan and Petersen were in Copenhagen and Williams in Youngstown, to make the announcement. By building on the successful Youngstown 2010 planning process and implementing a citywide and neighborhood-specific ‘greening’ plan, Youngstown can become a model ‘green’ city for the rest of the Midwest. The goals of this initiative include generating resources and national participation in a design competition for envisioning the future of one of Youngstown’s neighborhoods. “I am excited to welcome Global Green to our community. Given their solid track record of leadership and practical results, we are partnering with Global Green to lead a green economic renaissance and to help create a sustainable future for Youngstown,” stated Congressman Ryan. The Congressman noted that this project also complements over $7.6 million that has been secured in 2010 congressional earmarks for green energy related projects in the 17th District, including the Warren Technology and Business Center for Energy Sustainability, the YSU Center for Advanced Automotive Fuels Research, Development and Commercialization, and the YSU Center for Efficiency in Sustainable Energy. “We are leading the green revolution. This innovative collaboration will help to elevate Youngstown, Northeastern Ohio and the Cleveland-Youngstown-Pittsburgh Tech Belt – opening us up for global investment in cutting edge green energy technology and sustainable development in our district,” Ryan said. “Manufacturing is our legacy; green manufacturing is our opportunity to pull ourselves out of this 30-year economic stalemate.” As the effects of climate change become increasingly evident, the need to quickly move from conceptualizing climate-friendly sustainable cities to creating them is immense. For the past 15 years, nonprofit Global Green USA has worked with over 20 cities and public agencies – including the green rebuilding of New Orleans – to help stem global climate change by encouraging the creation of green buildings, cities, and neighborhoods. Launching the Youngstown project represents the next phase in Global Green’s Sustainable City and Climate Action Initiative which aims to reduce energy use and increase sustainability in cities and neighborhoods. As part of this program, Global Green USA will create a model sustainable city that highlights the transformational role that cities can play in mitigating climate change – and adapting to the impending impacts of that change – while creating an inspirational model for the Rust Belt and other post-industrial regions in the U.S. and around the world. Mayor Williams stated, “We look forward to working with Congressman Ryan and Global Green as we continue the implementation of Youngstown’s 2010 Plan. By investing in the creation of a sustainable future for our community, we will be able to increase our efforts to implement the concept of a ‘shrinking city’ while supporting the U.S. Mayor’s Climate Protection Agreement.” “We not only need binding emission reductions legislation and an aggressive climate agreement – we also need to create a model that demonstrates the ‘greener’ future that is possible for post-industrial cities that also shrinks carbon footprints,” added Global Green’s Petersen. “By working with Congressman Ryan and Mayor Williams, we will seek to make quick progress on our goals to ‘green’ Youngstown while serving as a model for other Rust Belt cities.” The goals of Global Green’s Youngstown project are: To create a Climate Action and Sustainable City Plan, beginning with the implementation of key aspects of the U.S. Mayors’ Climate Protection Agreement and strategies that build on the Youngstown 2010 plan, all which can be implemented in the near- to mid-term to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and meet sustainability goals; To create a Neighborhood-Specific Plan for one neighborhood on Youngstown’s south side that currently suffers from devastating levels of blight, with many blocks left virtually empty; To generate provocative and creative ideas through a design competition that will bring national attention and resources to the project, along with actionable contributions (i.e., planning, design and policy) for the neighborhood specific planning and design; To establish measurable indicators of progress, documenting model policies and best practices that will be shared with regional and national decision makers; To leverage existing investments and secure firm commitments from local and regional funders, as well as a congressional appropriation, to fund capital costs associated with citywide and neighborhood-specific plan implementation; and To create a regional framework of ideas and next steps that will identify how the ‘greening’ of Youngstown can influence the ‘greening’ of the Rust Belt, and more immediately, be a key factor in the greening of the Pittsburgh-Cleveland Tech Belt corridor. Former Youngstown resident and Applied Systems and Technology Transfer (AST2) president Jack Scott has already invested $25,000 into the project; a figure which has been matched locally by the Raymond John Wean Foundation. Foundation president Joel Ratner states that “We are looking forward to a productive partnership between Global Green, Congressman Tim Ryan, and the City of Youngstown that will result in increased opportunities for green jobs and technology and a more sustainable future for Youngstown and the Mahoning Valley.” More details on this initiative will be announced in the coming months. Additional information regarding Global Green USA can be found at www.globalgreen.org. # # #
12.14.2009	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) announced today that almost 2,000 workers of Delphi Packard Electric Ohio Operations in Warren, Rootstown, Vienna, Howland, and Cortland were certified to receive important job training and placement assistance from the U. S. Department of Labor. According to the report issued today: “All workers of Delphi Packard Electrical/Electronic Architecture, a subsidiary of Delphi Corporation, including on-site leased workers from Bartech, Warren, Ohio (TA-W-70 324), Delphi Packard Electrical/Electronic Architecture, a subsidiary of Delphi Corporation, including on-site leased workers from Bartech, Rootstown, Ohio (TA-W-70 324A), Delphi Packard Electrical/Electronic Architecture, a subsidiary of Delphi Corporation, including on-site leased workers from Bartech, Vienna, Ohio (TA-W-70 324B), Delphi Packard Electrical/Electronic Architecture, a subsidiary of Delphi Corporation, including on-site leased workers from Bartech, Howland, Ohio (TA-W-70 324C), Delphi Packard Electrical/Electronic Architecture, a subsidiary of Delphi Corporation, including on-site leased workers from Bartech, Cortland, Ohio (TA-W-70 324D), who became totally or partially separated from employment on or after May 19, 2008, through two years from the date of certification, and all workers in the group threatened with total or partial separation from employment on the date of certification through two years from the date of certification, are eligible to apply for adjustment assistance under Chapter 2 of Title II of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended.” “I’m proud that my efforts lobbying the Obama Administration and the efforts of local workers have paid off. These TAA benefits will help ensure that former Delphi employees receive the training and job placement assistance necessary for their success,” said Congressman Ryan. * Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) and Alternative Trade Adjustment Assistance (ATAA) help trade-affected workers who have lost their jobs as a result of increased imports or shifts in production out of the United States. Certified individuals may be eligible to receive one or more program benefits and services depending on what is needed to return them to employment. (Source: https://www.doleta.gov/tradeact/benefits.cfm) # # # A copy of the Department of Labor Employment and Training Administration report is attached to this message.
12.11.2009	Warren, Ohio – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) announced that Heather McMahon has been named as his Communications Director. Ms. McMahon will be Congressman Ryan’s point person for all media relations and will be working out of the Warren office. Ms. McMahon joins Pat Lowry and Erick Sanchez, current members of the Congressman’s communications team. “I am pleased to have Heather working as part of my team,” said Ryan. “She brings a great deal of knowledge about local issues of concern and will be a tremendous asset in communicating my work to improve our economy.” Ms. McMahon is a native of Warren and has held previous positions at the Mahoning Valley Organizing Collaborative, Wick Neighbors, and the City of Warren. She is a graduate of the University of the Pennsylvania and received her master’s degree from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. “I am very much looking forward to working with Congressman Ryan,” stated Ms. McMahon. “There is no greater champion for the future of the 17th Congressional District – and, indeed, all of Northeastern Ohio. It is an honor for me to be a part of Team Ryan.” # # #
12.11.2009	(Warren, OH) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) will join Warren Mayor Michael O’Brien in commending Dr. Ronald Dwinnells and Elizabeth Haddle of One Health Ohio on the announcement of their second medical/dental facility to be opened at the Warren location in Spring 2010. At that time, the Congressman will make himself available to members of the press for comments. Who: Congressman Tim Ryan What: Press Availability Where: Press Conference One Health Ohio 1977 Niles Road SE Warren, OH Google Maps link: https://tinyurl.com/Dec-14-event When: MONDAY, DECEMBER 14, 2009 9:30 AM # # #
12.10.2009	Warren, Ohio – U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) was joined by Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Congressman Charlie Wilson (OH-6) in seeking federal assistance for Forum Health as it navigates bankruptcy proceedings. In a letter addressed to President Obama, members of the Senate and House leadership, and the Treasury Department, the Members outlined the importance of Forum Health to the regional economy and the importance of federal intervention in this critical community issue. “We are very concerned about the potential impact that closing any of the Forum Health facilities would have on community access to health care and on our local economy,” said Congressman Ryan. “I have been working very closely with local, state, and federal officials to explore every option that is available to assist Forum in emerging successfully from bankruptcy. Anything else would be devastating to our community.” Senator Brown added, “Forum health is a community asset – one that delivers quality health care and provides good paying jobs – and we must continue to fight for its future. Federal action can help preserve a crucial local resource that is part of the fabric of our national public health system." “I look forward to working with my colleagues and the President on Forum Health’s recovery,” stated Congressman Wilson. “Federal loan guarantees would help secure the future of Forum Health, and would be a crucial investment in both the long-term economic stability and physical wellbeing of the residents of the Mahoning Valley.” The text of the letter is attached below. # # # December 7, 2009 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. Washington, DC 20500 Re: Forum Health, Youngstown, Ohio Dear Mr. President: As federal representatives for the Youngstown, Ohio region, we are requesting your assistance with a situation involving a local hospital system. Forum Health is a not-for-profit healthcare system that generates approximately $400 million in annual revenues with facilities in both Mahoning and Trumbull counties. Northside Medical Center is the largest employer in the city of Youngstown and a significant contributor to the local tax base. In total, the system employs approximately 3,400 employees at its facilities throughout the region, including Northside Medical Center, Austintown Ambulatory, Trumbull Memorial Hospital in Warren and Hillside Rehabilitation Hospital in Howland. Earlier this year, Forum Health filed for bankruptcy protection. Recent shifts in the medical industry, as well as the economic recession which has resulted in the loss of health insurance for thousands of Valley residents, has further eroded the institution’s economic position. Currently, the company is $133 million in debt to secured creditors with estimated pension liabilities of around $100 million. There is currently a set aside of $43.2 million in the debt reserve fund. In the bankruptcy proceeding at this time, there are three viable bidders for the entire system plus one bidder interested only in the Hillside Rehabilitation Hospital facility. We are concerned that the creditors will opt to dismantle the system and liquidate the assets, resulting in thousands of employees losing their jobs in a community that already has a 12.5 percent unemployment rate. We are particularly concerned about how the closing of any of the Forum facilities would impact health care locally, as well as the economic effect of such a closing. As the largest employer in the area, not only is Forum a crucial source of health care; it also has a significant impact on our local economy. An employer of Forum’s size not only affects its own employees directly, but also its retirees and the thousands of other workers and businesses that offer the products and services within its supply chain. While the local community is very supportive of Forum Health and their efforts to emerge from bankruptcy, the overall level of economic distress in the community has restricted its ability to assist in any meaningful way. Without the intervention of the federal government with a loan guarantee program or some other form of assistance, we believe that the system is in jeopardy of closing, resulting in a devastating loss of jobs and health care services. We would ask for every possible consideration by the Administration to identify a program to assist with this situation. We are aware of a US Department of Agriculture program for rural communities that could serve as a model for distressed urban healthcare systems. We look forward to hearing from you on this critical community issue. Thank you in advance for any assistance you can offer to our constituents. Sherrod Brown Tim Ryan Charlie Wilson U. S. Senator Member of Congress Member of Congress C: Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid Speaker Nancy Pelosi Secretary Tim Geithner Secretary Kathleen Sebelius
12.09.2009	(Warren, OH) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) will make a statement and be available for questions regarding the location of Eastern Gateway Community College in downtown Warren. Who: Congressman Tim Ryan What: Phone Conference regarding Eastern Gateway Community College Scheduled Conference Date: TODAY, December 9, 2009 Scheduled Start Time: 2:00 PM Scheduled End Time: 2:30 PM Dial-in Number: 866-714-3067 Participant Access Code: 6085453 # # #
12.09.2009	Warren, Ohio – U.S. Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Niles) and Governor Ted Strickland today announced a major physical presence for Eastern Gateway Community College in downtown Warren, after continued discussion. The community college began offering classes to the public in September 2009, but lacks the identity associated with a freestanding structure. “The Governor and I plan to locate the main campus of Eastern Gateway Community College in downtown Warren,” said Congressman Ryan. “This location will supplement the promising development already underway, including the construction of the Warren Green Energy Incubator and the relocation of the Warren Board of Education. It will spur new retail and housing development in the city and provide needed job development during a difficult economic climate. This is a game-changer for Warren. This development will enable downtown Warren to become the center of education, entertainment, and commerce in the city.” The potential benefits of the community college’s location in downtown Warren are significant. In addition to increasing foot traffic for downtown businesses, the facility will help stimulate private investment in the urban core. The establishment of a downtown campus will foster increased community participation and serve as a significant complement to Kent State University’s Trumbull Campus and Youngstown State University. And, significantly, the development of this urban campus corresponds with the Ohio Board of Regents Chancellor Eric Fingerhut’s charge for higher education in Ohio to “redouble its efforts as the growth engine for research and workforce development through expanded educational services for its citizens and redevelopment of its communities.” “We have witnessed firsthand the impact that a post-secondary institution like Youngstown State University can have on downtown development, and are confident that this project will create similar community partnerships and economic benefits for the City of Warren,” stated Governor Strickland. “I applaud the initiative of Congressman Ryan and local legislators in pursuing this development and their dedication to the people of this region.” Both Governor Strickland and Congressman Ryan believe that providing access to high quality, affordable post-secondary education is a critical component for Ohio’s future. “Governor Strickland and I are committed to the long-term success of Eastern Gateway Community College in the Mahoning Valley, and we believe that developing a main campus in downtown Warren provides the best option for that success,” Ryan said. # # #
12.04.2009	Washington D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Niles), announced today that the workers of Severstal Warren, Inc., Warren, Ohio, (TA-W-70, 903) displaced by recent job losses will receive important job training and placement assistance from the United States Department of Labor. “This favorable decision made by the Division of Trade Adjustment Assistance was extremely critical - the TAA benefits will help ensure that these workers will get the training and job placement assistance they need to be successful. This is long overdue for the families affected by the Severstal situation. This cushions the blow, but we will not be happy until that plant is pumping out steel and all the workers are back earning a good living,” said Congressman Ryan. * Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) and Alternative Trade Adjustment Assistance (ATAA) help trade-affected workers who have lost their jobs as a result of increased imports or shifts in production out of the United States. Certified individuals may be eligible to receive one or more program benefits and services depending on what is needed to return them to employment. (Source: https://www.doleta.gov/tradeact/benefits.cfm) # # #
12.01.2009	Spoke before the International Trade Commission, V&M Star and Wheatland Tube Among Petitioners Washington, DC— Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) testified at today’s final hearing of the International Trade Commission regarding imports of Oil Country Tubular Goods (OCTG) from China. He was joined by other Members of the Ohio Congressional delegation, Governor Strickland (Ohio) and Mayor Williams of Youngstown, Ohio. Due to a staggering import surge from China, OCTG inventories rose to unprecedented levels, forcing domestic mills to curtail production and lay off workers. In response to these developments, V&M Star and Wheatland Tube joined other U.S. producers to file antidumping and countervailing duty cases on OCTG imports from China on April 8, 2009. “I was proud to join Youngstown Mayor Jay Williams, Governor Strickland, and my Congressional colleagues to challenge China’s predatory dumping that is taking good jobs out of my congressional district and Ohio,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “There has been strong support from Congress and the Obama Administration, and we’re sending a signal to China that it’s not acceptable to circumvent our fair-trade laws.” Congressman Ryan joined 29 other lawmakers yesterday to send a letter to ITC Chairman Shara Aranoff to review the matter. A transcript of Congressman Ryan’s testimony is below. ### Chairman Aranoff and Members of the Commission, thank you for the opportunity to testify at this final injury hearing regarding imports of Oil Country Tubular Goods (OCTG) from China. I am pleased to join with others from our Congressional delegation, Governor Strickland (Ohio) and Mayor Williams of Youngstown, Ohio to provide these comments. Ohio’s 17th Congressional District is home to two of the petitioners in this case, V&M Star of Youngstown, Ohio and Wheatland Tube of Warren, Ohio. I have had the pleasure of working with both of these companies and with their workers on a number of local issues which have directly impacted our area. They serve an important role in the local economy and over the years have made significant financial investments in their plants to enhance their competitiveness. During my tenure in the House, I have made frequent trips to the Commission to express my strong support for the enforcement of the U.S. unfair trade laws, especially when U.S. companies and workers have been injured. Today, I am before you to explain why it is important that the domestic industry receive relief from these unfairly traded imports. The OCTG imports from China have decimated the U.S. industry. The recent preliminary findings from the Commerce Department have proven that the Chinese have dumped, at average, margins of 36% and subsidized these imports in margins from 11% to 31%. In addition, U.S. imports from China totaled 2.2 million tons in 2008, which accounted for 32.7% of quantity in the U.S. The Chinese took an even larger share of the market this year and accounted for 37% of the U.S. market during the first three quarters. When you review the data, it becomes apparent why these massive amounts of unfairly traded imports have resulted in worker layoffs and severe cut backs at OCTG producers. Unfortunately, these imports have required V&M Star to reduce production, resulting in layoffs and economic hardship to our area’s workers and their families. In addition, Wheatland Tube has made significant investments to its plant and installed new finishing equipment to enter the OCTG business. Unfortunately, due to the massive quantities of imports from China, they, too, were forced to reduce production and lay off workers. Particularly troubling to me is seeing China repeatedly committing offenses in the trade arena. Since my early days in Congress, I have advocated for the types of trade policy reforms that would bring China into global trade compliance. I have placed a high priority on seeking an end to currency manipulation—a practice which impairs the ability of our domestic manufacturers to compete on a level playing field. I also know that the strict enforcement of trade laws is the only recourse for U.S. producers like V&M Star and other domestic producers. That is why I believe it is very important that the domestic OCTG industry and its workers are granted relief. OCTG products are essential to our nation’s ability to serve the energy market. V&M Star, like others in the industry, are innovative, efficient and dynamic companies that have the ability to serve our country now and well into the future. I believe that it is equally important that all of our trading partners adhere to global trade rules - especially China, one of the least compliant, least cooperative parties in the world. When I return to my district later this month, I want to assure my constituents that we have taken appropriate steps to remedy this pervasive problem. I ask that you make an affirmative final determination so we are able to ensure a future for this industry and, by extension, the hard-working people in my district and beyond. Thank you.
11.25.2009	Congressman Ryan to Testify, to be joined by Sen. Brown and Delphi Retiree Representative Bruce Gump Washington, DC—Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) announced that the House Education and Labor Committee will conduct a hearing on the pensions and benefits that may be cut because of the Delphi Corporation bankruptcy for December 2, 2009. The decision comes after a request made by Congressman Ryan to Committee Chairman George Miller (Committee on Education and Labor) and Subcommittee Chairman Rob Andrews (Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions). “I’m excited to speak on behalf of nearly 70,000 hardworking Americans, over 5,000 of whom are in my district, whose retirement benefits are threatened by circumstances beyond their control,” said Congressman Ryan. “As part of the economic stimulus bill that passed in February, Democrats were able to secure critical benefits that helped Delphi retirees, but I believe more can be done.” Congressman Ryan has been a leader in the efforts to provide security for the supplemental and pension benefits of the Delphi Retirees, and has held discussions with both state and federal officials—including a meeting with President Obama on Air Force One--to address this critical issue and its local impact in the event of inaction. In July 2009, Congressman Ryan introduced legislation to provide funding for a Voluntary Employees Beneficiary Association (VEBA) which would cover Delphi hourly and salaried employees and retirees that lost their health coverage through Delphi and GM’s Chapter 11. The House hearing ‘Examining the Delphi Bankruptcy’s Impact on Workers and Retirees’ will be held on December 2, 2009, at 10:30AM in Rayburn 2175. A Senate hearing on this issue was held on October 29, 2009. ###
11.23.2009	Washington, DC – Congressman Ryan (OH-17) made the following statement in reference to recent reports by the Small Business Majority and the Business Roundtable. “I’m pleased by the recent reports that affirm the cost savings of health care reforms for employers. With reform, small businesses can save as much as $855 billion and up to $3,000 per employee within 10 years. The changes will benefit 12,300 small businesses in Ohio’s 17th Congressional District. This is not left wing propaganda. These are facts from our nation’s top business leaders. While the critics are spreading myths and working to demonize support for reform, top CEOs in the country and thousands of small businesses are saying this will save them money. The fact is that this reform will reduce strangling health care costs on employers and the freed up capital can be reinvested into new technology, new equipment and higher wages. This is exactly the prescription for long term growth in jobs and wages.” ###
11.23.2009	Washington, DC – Congressman Ryan (OH-17) voted today for H.R. 3961, The Medicare Physician Payment Reform Act. This bill will prevent a 21 percent cut in Medicare physician payment rates scheduled for January 2010. It will replace the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula, and protects access to physicians for 109,000 Medicare beneficiaries in the 17th Congressional District, as well as members of the military and their families since physician payment rates in TRICARE are tied to those used by Medicare. “This bill will correct nearly a decade of mismanagement of Medicare under SGR, and provide a real solution for ensuring the health care security for over 100,000 seniors in my district and adequate payments that local physicians can count upon,” said Congressman Ryan. H.R. 3961 is supported by a wide range of organizations including the American Medical Association, AARP, the Military Officers Association of America, the American Academy of Family Physicians, the American College of Physicians, the American College of Surgeons, the Center for Medicare Advocacy, the Medicare Rights Center, and the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare. This bill will now go to the Senate for its consideration and must be signed by the President before it becomes law. ###
11.23.2009	Washington, DC— Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) appeared before a Senate Subcommittee today on behalf of the family of Lt. Col. Dominic Baragona. Baragona was killed in Iraq in May 2003 after he was struck by a truck driven by an employee of the Kuwait & Gulf Link Transport Company (KGL), a Kuwaiti company under multiple contracts with the Department of Defense to provide logistics services in support of the United States military in Iraq. Evidence suggests that KGL acted negligently in this case, and Congressman Ryan has been working with government officials to seek justice for the Baragona family. “I was pleased to join today’s subcommittee hearing to discuss an issue I care deeply about, and I would like to thank Senator McCaskill for her leadership on putting this hearing together,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “I will continue to work to ensure that the Baragonas receive the justice they deserve, and hold KGL accountable for their negligence.” Today’s hearing reviewed S. 526, the Lieutenant Colonel Dominic ‘Rocky’ Baragona Justice for American Heroes Harmed by Contractors Act, sponsored in the Senate by Sen. Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Chairwoman of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee’s Subcommittee on Contracting Oversight. Congressman Ryan is the sponsor of the companion legislation currently under consideration in the House of Representatives. Last Thursday, Congressman Ryan was joined by Congressman Driehaus (OH-1) to request a civil and criminal investigation of KGL’s involvement in a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder. ### For a YouTube clip of Congressman Ryan’s remarks at Today’s Hearing, please click the following link (video may still be processing at time of release): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TM9QaCQSc4A
11.23.2009	WASHINGTON, DC –Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is now accepting applications under the Fiscal Year (FY) 2009 Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response Grant Program (SAFER). These funds assist district fire departments with recruitment and retention of volunteer firefighters who are involved with, or trained in, the operations of firefighting and emergency response. “With unavoidable budget restraints and possible layoffs, these funds come at a crucial time for our local emergency responders,” said Congressman Ryan. “Realizing that federal funds will not eliminate all local budgetary problems, this money can help increase services and reduce some of the pain local communities are going through.” According to FEMA, the grants increase the number of trained, certified, and competent firefighters capable of safely responding to emergencies likely to occur in our local communities. One hundred percent of the actual salary and benefits for the SAFER-funded firefighters will be fully funded for the two-year period of performance. From his seat on the Appropriations Committee, Congressman Ryan was able to secure report language in the FY2010 Homeland Security Appropriations bill that encouraged FEMA to factor in the level of layoffs and unemployment in the prioritization process of awarding SAFER grants. Congressman Ryan added the language to help boost the prospects of applications from economically struggling 17th District communities. The application period for the FY 2009 SAFER Program opened Monday, November 16, 2009 and will close on Friday, December 18, 2009 at 5:00 p.m. EDT. For more information about the SAFER Guidance Program and how to apply for these funds please click here. # # #
11.23.2009	November 10, 2009 The Honorable Eric H. Holder Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 Subject: Request for commencement of formal investigation and report of findings. This is a request that a criminal and civil investigation be conducted into the misconduct of a foreign United States government contractor for vehicular homicide and for civil contract fraud for operating without mandatory licenses and the U.S. government contractor insurance protection required under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (“FAR”). We request an investigation of egregious contractor misconduct involved in the death of Lieutenant Colonel Dominic Baragona on May 19, 2003 on a road in Iraq. His death was caused by a tractor trailer truck owned and operated by Kuwait Gulf Link & Transport Company (“KGL”), the predecessor company to an enormous group of international Kuwaiti companies, which have and continue to perform large U.S. government contracts potentially worth billions of U.S. dollars. KGL’s tractor trailer careened across three lanes of a highway in the middle of a clear, sunny day and destroyed the Humvee in which Colonel Baragona was riding.[1] At the time of his death, Colonel Baragona had served honorably during Operation Iraqi Freedom and was on his way home to his family. Indeed, this company’s negligence has led to another traffic fatality of a U.S. soldier. Staff Sgt. Javares J. Washington, 27, of Pensacola, Florida., died February 11, 2008 at Camp Buehring in Kuwait City, Kuwait, from injuries sustained in a vehicle accident with a KGL truck. The official U.S. Army 15-6 2004 accident reconstruction report found that the driver caused Colonel Baragona’s death, but a criminal investigation into the circumstances surrounding the traffic accident never occurred. Mahmoud Muhammed Hussein Serour, the KGL driver was airlifted to a military hospital after the accident, from which he later disappeared. KGL later claimed that he quit his job, and moved back to Egypt but did not have his contact information. Other troubling facts have emerged from the US Army investigation of this accident. It is clear from US Army photographs of the accident that the KGL truck did not have a license plate at the time of the accident, which is a violation of Kuwaiti law.[2] The truck could not have crossed into Iraq through security checkpoints without a license plate, which leads to the presumption that the license plate was removed after crossing the checkpoint for illicit activities. The KGL truck also disappeared immediately after the accident.[3] There remains an open question whether KGL was properly insured for the accident as required by the U.S. government contracts, and therefore U.S. procurement law, it was operating under at the time of accident. The question remains critical because KGL never offered an insurance payment to the Baragona family, testified in a U.S. federal court proceeding that it did not retain any records of its insurance contracts for the time period involved and has refused to produce its response to a request for information from the U.S. Army Legal Services Agency, Fraud Procurement Branch regarding this issue. If KGL did not carry the insurance required under the FAR for the performance of its U.S. government contracts, criminal penalties could result. The FAR contains several mandatory insurance clauses which are incorporated into a wide variety of federal contracts, including transportation contracts, e.g. FAR 52.228-8. The historic purpose of those clauses is to serve two equally important public policy goals. First, they are to protect innocent third parties from financial losses experienced through the negligent acts of contractors while in the performance of government contracts by making liability insurance coverage an available resource for the satisfaction of any damages to innocent victims of contractor negligence. The second purpose is to protect the United States from lawsuits by those third parties under the theory of respondent-superior. A former KGL employee named Robert Stephens stated to Steven R. Perles, representative for the Baragona family, that: [H]e had been directed by Mohamed Fahmie, a legal advisor for KGL at the time, to improperly certify that KGL carried the proper insurance requirements for US government contracting, even though KGL did not meet the US government insurance requirements. Mr. Stephens believed this to be an act of procurement fraud and refused to bid on the contracts that required him to make those certifications. He was subsequently let go.[4] Counsel for the Baragona family filed this statement in an affidavit in the United States District Court for the Northern District for the District of Georgia. Mr. Perles subsequently received an email from Mr. Stephens that stated he could not participate in the matter any further because he was being threatened with deportation by Kuwaiti government officials unless he retracted his prior statements regarding KGL. There remain other open questions regarding the legality of KGL’s transportation operation from the day of the accident. According to the U.S. Army 15-6 report the driver of the truck had a license as a “Chauffer” and not a “CDL class A” driver as required by U.S. Army regulations for the driver of a tractor trailer truck.[5] As stated in the Army Regulation 600-55, paragraph 2,[6] all DOD contractors are required to have a valid CDL license in order to be employed. It is clear that the driver did not carry the license necessary since his passport would have reflected the proper license or the special clearance that a foreign national would have needed.[7] A further concern was the driver’s age, 58 years, which would have required the Army to issue a 346 special condition order that should have been indicated on the driver’s passport, which was not on the passport.[8] More troubling details permeate the record of the accident. The nurse who treated the KGL driver was told that he was a Kuwaiti civilian working in Iraq as a truck driver, which was incorrect.[9] The nurse treated him for a fractured wrist and pain in his ribs. She then arranged a taxi upon his request for Basra.[10] KGL, in a subsequent statement to a U.S. Army investigator[11], claimed that the driver had a back injury, as opposed to a rib injury, quit his job and returned to Egypt ten days after the accident. The driver should be found and interviewed regarding the suspicious circumstances of this accident, which resulted in the death of a U.S. Army colonel. KGL is responsible for employee discipline, proper training and licensing. In a fatality, as a contractor, KGL is required to fully and completely cooperate with investigating officials. At the least, by allowing their driver to return to Egypt, KGL impeded a federal investigation. KGL personnel are subject to prosecution under Federal law as a result of the Military Extra-territorial Jurisdiction Act (“MEJA”).[12] A KGL manager[13] later stated that a crew was sent the day after the collision to retrieve the badly damaged KGL vehicle. According to the KGL manager, the vehicle disappeared. Other photographs taken at the scene of the accident show clearly that the KGL truck was missing its license plates, which were required by Kuwaiti law.[14] Thus, both the driver and the truck that were involved in a fatal accident with a U.S. Army colonel disappearing after the accident. Statements in both U.S. Army 15-6 reports by the investigating officers conclude that the loss of evidence in the form of vehicles, driver and witnesses critically hindered the investigation. The investigators were unable to ascertain why a KGL truck was driving on a road without license plates by an unlicensed driver. The missing license plates, combined with the fact that a waybill was not produced at any time after the accident, raises further questions. The Army admitted that the initial accident investigation report was replete with errors and failures to gather pertinent evidence. In his report to the Commanding General of the Human Resources Command, dated January 6, 2004, on the accident investigation presentation to the family, Col. David Schneider stated, "I fully understand that this investigation was conducted under combat conditions. That said, it is my opinion that the investigation only very minimally addresses the pertinent questions of what happened, who was at fault, and what corrective actions should be taken to minimize the potential for future similar incidents. Additionally, the report contains several factual errors, failed to include direct statements from key witnesses, failed to include interviews with other key personnel, and was poorly assembled." This stunning declaration leaves no doubt that a new investigation is warranted to determine the circumstances of the accident, the potential criminal liability of both the driver for the accident and of KGL for obstruction of justice, and the potential civil liability of KGL for civil contract fraud. The troubling nature of these facts is further highlighted in the context of the history of misconduct by this company. KGL has been placed on the Indian government’s Prior Approval List (“PAL”), which functioned as a blacklist for any emigration by Indian nationals overseas based upon employment with KGL. This blacklisting was predicated upon KGL’s hiring Indian nationals to work in Iraq upon the “pretext of deploying them to Kuwait.” It is widely reported in Indian news sources that employees were recruited to work in Kuwait or other Gulf States but then were forced to work in the extremely dangerous conditions that prevailed in Iraq at the time.[15] The U.S. commander in Iraq responded to abuses such as these by ordering that contractors return all confiscated passports by May 1, 2006.[16] Penalties for disregarding this order included blacklisting from future work.[17] KGL remained on the Indian government’s blacklist as late as August 25, 2008 for these types of violations. Based upon this company’s extensive history of human trafficking violations, the licensing issues with the driver of the truck and his subsequent disappearance, KGL must answer whether the driver was another case of forced labor, this time forced to drive into Iraq without insurance and, considering the missing license plates, potentially carrying illegal cargo. It is troubling that a criminal investigation of this company was never conducted given the suspicious circumstances surrounding the accident and KGL’s well-documented history of human trafficking. Based upon these findings by the Indian government, Senator Mel Martinez wrote to Secretary Robert Gates on July 9, 2008 to question the fitness of KGL to receive any further contracts from the U.S. government. Two further letters recently issued to Secretary Gates regarding KGL’s fitness as a federal contractor based upon the KGL’s conduct in a court case filed against it for its responsibility for the death of Colonel Baragona, and for other reasons. Senator Claire McCaskill’s office sent a letter on September 9, 2009 and another letter issued from both Senator McCaskill, as Chairwoman of the Senate Subcommittee on Contracting Oversight, and Senator Robert Bennett’s offices as the Ranking Minority Member on the Senate Subcommittee on Contracting Oversight. As a result of Colonel Baragona’s death, the U.S. Army proposed KGL for debarment on September 22, 2006 in a “show cause” letter and reopened the investigation with a “request for information” letter in December of 2008. KGL’s disregard for law and decent conduct has also resulted in KGL’s official ban from recruiting in India for human trafficking. Similar reports of human trafficking by KGL have begun to emerge in the Philippines and were the subject of an inquiry by the Philippine Senate.[18] KGL’s numerous instances of ethically challenged behavior will create obstacles in its future performance of any U.S. contracts. A U.S. federal contactor is required to conduct itself with the highest degree of integrity and honesty under Section 3.10 of the FAR. The U.S. Army’s Fraud Procurement Branch sent a request for information to KGL on December 4, 2008 to inquire about the human trafficking issue and to determine whether KGL has carried sufficient insurance as required by the Federal Acquisition Regulation. It seems to these members of Congress that any contractor, foreign or domestic, which is found at fault for causing death or bodily injury to a U.S. service member or a U.S. citizen accompanying the force, and which refuses to pay any compensation under the laws of the United States ought to be deemed non-responsible per se and precluded from doing further business with the United States. Finally, there is a question regarding the propriety of the off-the-record contacts between counsel for KGL, retired Brigadier General Richard Bednar, the former Army Chief Debarring Official and the U.S. Army Legal Services Agency. What ethical issues are present when the former Army Chief Debarring Official is hired to lobby the debarment office, which is a quasi-judicial body? The former chief debarring officer should not be able to exert any influence on a quasi-judicial proceeding. We request that you investigate the facts and circumstances raised in this request. This matter is urgent, as a corporate alter ego of the company whose negligence resulted in the wrongful death of Colonel Baragona is bidding on a service contract(s) with an approximate value of 9.4 billion dollars over ten years[19] to feed thousands of U.S. service members in the Iraq and Kuwait theater. This committee is acutely sensitive to the grave risks associated with any such potential award, as U.S. service members could be put in some harm’s way by this contractor’s gross negligence, and like Colonel Baragona’s family will have no practical remedy under the current law and regulations. The Baragona family and their representatives have done a great deal of research on the issues explained above, among others, and have more information that can be made available upon request. A potential contact for issues arising from the Army’s 15-6 report would be the original investigating officer, Colonel Schneider. Thank you in advance for your prompt attention to this pressing matter. Sincerely, _________________________________ __________________________________ Tim Ryan Steve Driehaus Member of Congress Member of Congress [1] See attached photo of accident site. [2] See attached photo of accident site. [3] U.S. Army amended 15-6 report, exhibit 22. [4] Exhibit to Opposition to Motion to Vacate, Docket Entry #48, exhibit 6, Baragona v. KGL, 05-cv-01267-WSD (filed March 21, 2008). [5] U.S. Army amended 15-6 report, exhibit 23. [6] https://www.army.mil/USAPA/epubs/pdf/r600_55.pdf [7] section 6.3 Army Regulation 600-55 [8] U.S. Army amended 15-6 report, exhibit 23. [9] U.S. Army amended 15-6 report, exhibit DD. [10] U.S. Army amended 15-6 report, exhibit DD. [11] U.S. Army amended 15-6 report, exhibit 22. [12] https://www.fas.org/irp/agency/dod/1206report.pdf at pg. 10 [13] U.S. Army amended 15-6 report, exhibit 22. [14] See attached photo of accident site. [15] https://www.voanews.com/english/archive/2004-08/a-2004-08-16-21-1.cfm?moddate=2004-08-16; https://www.corpwatch.org/article.php?id=13184; https://www.indianexpress.com/news/tn-men-killed-in-iraq-kin-to-sue-firm/312765/. [16] https://www.chicagotribune.com/news/local/chi-060423pipeline-story,0,1853590.story [17] https://www.chicagotribune.com/news/local/chi-060423pipeline-story,0,1853590.story [18] https://www.senate.gov.ph/lisdata/69846222!.pdf. [19] Solicitation number SPM300-08-R-0061, contracting officer Linda A. Ford of the Defense Logistics Agency.
11.13.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan today offered assistance to the management of Severstal North America, and outlined the benefits that Severstal provides to the Mahoning Valley and offered his assistance to the company with any efforts to restart the mill in a letter sent to Severstal management. Congressman Ryan also explained to the Severstal management how important their operation is to the local schools and the City of Warren. Text of the letter is attached below. # # # November 9, 2009 Sergei Kuznetsov OAO Severstal North America 14661 Rotunda Drive Dearborn, MI 48120-01699 Dear Mr. Kuznetsov: As U.S. Representative for the 17th District of Ohio, I am writing to express my concerns about your Warren, Ohio facility, and to offer any assistance that I can provide to help secure its future. Severstal Warren is one of the largest employers in my Congressional District and is a significant contributor to our local tax base. For instance, Severstal pays approximately $1,000,000 annually to the Warren City School’s budget and $600,000 in income payroll and corporate taxes to the city of Warren. Additionally, the city of Warren generates more than $2,000,000 annually from water and sewer fees at the facility. It is further estimated that every 1 job in the steel industry creates an additional 5.3 jobs within the local supply network, so the impact of the facility on the local economy is much broader than Severstal’s direct payroll and tax obligations. It is my understanding that the Warren operation has an outstanding history of steel production, and remains one of your most profitable and efficient operations. While I certainly recognize that there are many factors that determine which plants are idled, I hope that you will look at your overall operations to determine if your Warren facility would not be able to better serve the needs of your customers and protect your overall market share. Because of the importance of the domestic steel industry to our nation’s security, Congress included provisions in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to stimulate the market. It is my sincere hope that this and other measures will spur the economy and allow the steel industry to receive the same kind of benefits that other sectors have experienced. Finally, if there are other factors that you believing are impacting your ability to restart your Warren operations that you believe my office can assist with, please contact me directly to arrange a time to talk. Ron Grimes, my chief of staff, can be reached at either 202-225-5261 or Ron.Grimes@mail.house.gov. Thank you in advance for your consideration of these issues. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
11.13.2009	Washington, DC—Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), was joined by Congressman Charlie Wilson (OH-6) and Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) in offering assistance to new Forum Health Interim Chief Executive Officer, Charles Neuman, in moving Forum out of bankruptcy and preserving its services, facilities and jobs. In a letter to Neuman, dated today, the Members outlined the urgency of pulling Forum Health out of bankruptcy, and the devastating effects that would result in the event of facilities closing. “I congratulate Mr. Neuman on his recent position, and I look forward to offering my assistance and the resources of my office during his leadership,” said Congressman Ryan. “It is important that we work to ensure the success of Northside Medical Center, Hillside Rehabilitation Hospital, and Trumbull Memorial Hospital. A strong Forum Health system is valuable to our community, and we have an obligation to keep it operational.” “Forum Health plays a vital role in both the delivery of health care services and the economic life of the Valley,” said Congressman Wilson. Along with the talented health care professionals, I look forward to working with Congressman Ryan, Senator Brown and Mr. Neuman during this critical period of transition from bankruptcy toward the creation a viable and valuable community hospital.” “This is about ensuring continued access to quality medical care for families in the Mahoning Valley. And this is about protecting Ohio jobs,” Brown said. “I look forward to working with Mr. Neuman, and my colleagues in Congress, to secure continuity of services vital to the community.” The text of the letter is attached below. ### November 12, 2009 Charles Neuman Forum Health Interim Chief Executive Officer c/o Hillside Rehabilitation Hospital 8747 Squires Lane NE Warren, Oh 44484 Dear Mr. Neuman: For the last few years, there has been an ongoing dialogue between Forum Health and our community about the serious challenges facing Forum. As elected officials with a responsibility to advocate for the welfare and continuity of our region’s local health infrastructure, we are gravely concerned about this situation. As you begin your new position, we stand ready to assist you in moving Forum out of bankruptcy and preserving Northside Medical Center’s future as an essential community hospital. We are hopeful that under your leadership, these challenges will be successfully resolved in a way that preserves jobs and enables Forum to continue providing much needed services to our community. To date, the leadership of the hospital system has had a policy of frank and open discussions about the issues that need to be addressed, as well as the financial challenges you face. It is our sincere hope that this relationship will continue in the same manner as you move through the bankruptcy proceedings. We are particularly concerned about how the closing of any of the Forum facilities would impact health care locally, as well as the economic effect of such a closing. As the largest employer in the area, not only is Forum a crucial source of health care, it also has a significant impact on our local economy. An employer of Forum’s size not only affects its own employees directly, but its retirees, and the thousands of other workers and businesses that offer the products and services within its supply chain. The House of Representative’s proposed health care overall holds great promise for Forum Health and other healthcare providers in the area. The bill will reduce the cost of uncompensated care by hospitals within the 17th Congressional district by $20 million and in the 6th Congressional District by $89 million, an issue of very serious concern for Forum Health. The bill will also provide insurance for 88,000 uninsured residents of our districts combined, which will further improve your bottom line. We are also working with our colleagues in the Senate and House to rewrite regulations that result in unfairly low Medicare reimbursements to our local hospitals. If we are successful, both Forum and Humility of Mary hospitals stand to reap millions of additional dollars in increased Medicare payments. We would appreciate the opportunity to meet with you to discuss the future of Forum Health, and we look forward to working with you to preserve and strengthen this critically important local resource. Sincerely, _______________________________ Congressman Tim Ryan OH17 _______________________________ Congressman Charlie Wilson OH6 _______________________________ Senator Sherrod Brown
11.13.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} Washington, DC—Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) released the following statement after passage of H.R. 2692, The Affordable Health Care for America Act: “For too many years, due to plant closings, personal hardships, and medical catastrophes, tens of thousands of families in my congressional district have lost their health coverage been priced out of the health insurance market through no fault of their own. They’ve been pushed off their health care policies, denied insurance due to pre-existing conditions and ended up in bankruptcy. But now, finally, we have passed a critical milestone toward universal, affordable health care for all Americans. “No longer will people be denied coverage because of some pre-existing condition. No longer will our families go bankrupt because of health care costs. No longer will health care be out of reach for thousands of our friends and neighbors. This reform should have happened thirty years ago, but I am proud to support it today. The Affordable Health Care for America Act will require legal residents of the United States to have health insurance, so they do not show up at the emergency room without insurance, resulting in taxpayers getting stuck with their medical bill. The Democratic health reform bill will create new insurance exchanges for individuals and families to reduce the cost of purchasing insurance, establish a public plan to be administered by the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to ensure competition in the marketplace, expand eligibility for Medicaid, and fill-in the so-called “donut hole” for prescription drugs in Medicare Part D. “This is a great day for America. This legislation will improve access to affordable health and help control skyrocketing health care costs. Already Americans pay more and get less in health care benefits than other countries. Yet millions remain uninsured and thousands are losing their coverage every day. Make no mistake; our most expensive option is to do nothing. Without this bill, rising costs will make insurance unaffordable for many employers and employees and uncontrollable increase will continue to be a major factor in spiraling federal deficits. Without comprehensive reform, catastrophic health care expenses will continue to be a major cause of personal bankruptcy. By eliminating preexisting conditions exclusions we will help doctors to make health care decisions instead of insurance companies. “I was born after Medicare and Medicaid were enacted, but I just cannot imagine America without these vital programs. I believe that in the years to come we will look back and wonder how we ever went without having health care for all.” In Ohio’s 17th Congressional District, The House Committee on Energy and Commerce provided the following estimates: · Improve Employer-Base Coverage for 355,000 Residents; · Provide credits to help pay for coverage for up to 180,000 Households; · Improve Medicare for 109,000 Beneficiaries, including Closing the Prescription Drug Donut Hole for 9,100 Seniors; · Allow 14,000 Small Businesses to obtain affordable health care coverage and provide tax credits to help reduce health insurance costs for up to 12,300 small businesses; · Provide coverage for 43,000 uninsured residents; · Protect up to 1,700 families from bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs; · Reduce the cost of uncompensated care hospitals and health care providers by $20 Million. ###
11.13.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} Commerce Dept. Announces Preliminary Duty Determination late Thursday, Rep. Ryan to testify at final hearing of the International Trade Commission in December Washington, DC—Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) made the following statement today on the Commerce Department’s Thursday evening announcement of a preliminary antidumping duty (AD) determination for OCTG products from China. “With yesterday’s decision, we are one step closer to telling China that it’s not acceptable to cut corners on our fair-trade laws. While this is only a preliminary determination, I applaud the Obama Administration for building momentum for the final decision in January. I look forward to testifying in December’s International Trade Commission hearing on behalf of the petitioners in this case, including V&M Star and Wheatland Tube, both located in my District.” Congressman Ryan joined five other lawmakers in May 2009 to send a letter to Chairman Aranoff of the International Trade Commission to review the matter. ###
11.13.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} Washington D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Congressman Tim Murphy (R-PA) were joined by 43 co-signers to send a joint letter to President Obama late Thursday expressing surprise and disappointment that the Treasury Department has once again declined to name China as a currency manipulator in the October 15th report to Congress. The letter urged the President to recognize China as illegally manipulating its currency, and to support the Ryan-Murphy bill to stop the harmful practice. “I’m proud to be working with Congressman Murphy and a diverse group of our colleagues to fight on behalf of our American workers and American manufacturing” said Congressman Ryan. “We need to start making things again in America. This petty, harmful trade practice has taken good jobs and investment out of our country, and I hope the President stands with us to stop it. If China stops cheating on their currency, it will mean billions of dollars that will be invested back into the United States. This can be a major stimulus and job creator for our Country. ” “When countries play by the rules, we can compete and win,” said Congressman Murphy. “But when countries, such as China, do not play by the rules, when there is no fairness, when they cheat, make inferior products or break the rules it is time for our government to step up and enforce those rules. China has systematically manipulated its currency to create an unfair trade advantage over the United States and other global competitors. It is time to put this practice to an end. I ask that the President join Congressman Ryan and I in our efforts to stand up to China.” China has long engaged in illegal currency misalignment. China’s cumulative $1.4 trillion trade surplus with the United States since 2001 should have had the natural economic effect of raising the value of the Yuan against the dollar to correct the trade imbalance. But by illegally subsidizing its exports through the undervaluation of its currency by 30 percent or more, China distorts the gains from trade, creates barriers to free and fair trade, harms U.S. industries, and has destroyed millions of U.S. jobs. This past May, Congressman Ryan and Congressman Murphy introduced the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act of 2009 – H.R. 2378 (S. 1027 on the Senate side), which has been endorsed by the Fair Currency Coalition. The text of the letter follows. # # # November 5, 2009 The Honorable Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: We were both surprised and disappointed that the Treasury Department declined to name China as a currency manipulator in the October 15th report to Congress mandated by the 1988 Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act. The report’s finding that “no major trading partner of the United States met the standards” of manipulating its currency to gain an unfair advantage in its trade balance or balance of payments shows that our standards must be re-evaluated. In order for us to revitalize our economy, it is imperative that we recognize the actions that contributed to the current recession. This past May, a bipartisan coalition of lawmakers reintroduced the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act, H.R. 2378, and S. 1027 on the Senate side. This bill would target exchange rate misalignment between the U.S. Dollar, Chinese Yuan and other major trading partners, in order to reduce the unnatural comparative advantages that command economies can use against market economies. We need to establish a firm approach to correcting this unfair trade practice, and defend American workers, industry and business that have been harmed by the unfair disadvantages in manufacturing and export that currency misalignment has created. China continues to illegally subsidize products by a third of the costs by manipulating their currency to undercut American goods, and it’s important that the Treasury Department stands with the work we are doing in Congress to stop illegal and unfair trade. We urge your support of this legislation – as you did during the 110th Congress -- and encourage you to take a strong stand on currency manipulation. Thank you for your consideration of this request and we look forward to working with you on protecting American workers from unfair trade. Sincerely, _____________________ ___________________ Tim Ryan Tim Murphy Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________ ___________________ Betty Sutton Michael H. Michaud Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________ ___________________ Peter J. Visclosky Howard Coble Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________ ___________________ Mike Rogers (AL-03) Walter B. Jones Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________ ___________________ Thomas S. P. Perriello Daniel Lipinski Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________ ___________________ Patrick T. McHenry Steve Buyer Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________ ___________________ Phil Hare Harold Rogers Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________ ___________________ Mark E. Souder Christopher John Lee Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________ ___________________ Joe Donnelly Donald A. Manzullo Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________ ___________________ Dan Burton Lynn A. Westmoreland Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________ ___________________ Duncan Hunter Marsha Blackburn Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________ ___________________ Rosa L. DeLauro Jerry F. Costello Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________ ___________________ Marcy Kaptur Joe Wilson Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________ ___________________ Glenn Thompson Michael Doyle Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________ ___________________ Charles A. Wilson Mike Rogers (MI-08) Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________ ___________________ Todd Russell Platts Bob Inglis Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________ ___________________ John D. Dingell Christopher P. Carney Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________ ___________________ Kathleen A. Dahlkemper Thaddeus G. McCotter Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________ ___________________ Bob Filner Tim Holden Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________ ___________________ Louise McIntosh Slaughter Peter Hoekstra Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________ ___________________ Steve Kagen Bruce L. Braley Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________ ___________________ Michael A. Arcuri Heath Shuler Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________ Dale E. Kildee Member of Congress cc: The Honorable Timothy F. Geithner Secretary of the Treasury U.S. Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20220
11.13.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} Bill would speed up implementation dates Washington, DC—Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) voted earlier today to pass the Expedited Card Reform for Consumers Act, H.R. 3639, which will move the 9 month (February 20, 2010) and 15 month (August 22, 2010) implementation dates up to December 1, 2009. This Act will accelerate critical reforms to protect consumers from the abusive practices of the credit card industry. Working to rebuild the economy, Congressman Ryan voted to enact tough new protections for consumers—including banning unfair rate increases, abusive fees, and penalties—and strengthening enforcement. This bipartisan measure of common sense reforms was signed into law on May 22, 2009. Since that time, instead of preparing to implement these consumer protection provisions, many credit card companies have raised interest rates and minimum payments, increased fees and tightened credit limits on consumers to get in under the wire before the effective date. In the first half of the year, interest rates climbed an average of 20 percent on credit cards representing more than 90 percent of outstanding balances. “In May, we gave the credit card companies a timeline to implement important changes to protect consumers, and they raised their interest rates and minimum payments in order to make as much profit before these deadlines could take effect,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “These petty techniques have no place in the business world, and I’m pleased to see that these abuses will come to an end next month.” Banks stand to collect a record $38.5 billion in fees for customer overdrafts this year. The most cash-strapped customers are the hardest hit, with 90 per cent of overdraft fees coming from 10 percent of checking account holders. According to the Center for Responsible Lending, banks collect nearly $1 billion per year in overdraft fees from young adults and $4.5 billion from senior citizens. In Ohio alone, it’s estimated that consumers paid nearly $900 million in overdraft charges last year. This legislation will lock in a ban on interest rate hikes on existing balances and tricks that have kept too many consumers trapped in a never-ending cycle of debt: such as double-cycle billing, due-date gamesmanship, and applying payments to lowest rates first. ###
11.13.2009	Congressional Budget Office confirms that bill will succeed in controlling costs, lower premiums Washington, DC—Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) released figures on the local impact of H.R. 3962, The Affordable Health Care for America Act. The study was prepared by the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. Last week, Congressman Ryan joined other House colleagues to unveil this historic legislation to reform America’s health care system in a way that reduces the deficit, provides stability and security for Americans who currently have health insurance, and an affordable, quality option for those who don’t. The Congressional Budget Office released estimates today confirming that H.R. 3962 will succeed in controlling costs that will be reflected in individual and family premiums. CBO found that by 2016, premiums will be $5,300 for an individual and $15,000 for a family of four in the Exchange. This is well below the $24,000 family premium expected if Congress fails to act and premiums grow as projected under current law. “After taking the time to hear the needs of our community, including eight events in my district dedicated solely to health care, I’m pleased to see a health care bill that is both far-reaching and cost-effective,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Soaring premiums and a lack of guaranteed access to affordable coverage have taken a toll on individuals and families, small businesses and taxpayers. This legislation will offer access to quality, affordable health care that can’t be denied.” In Ohio’s 17th Congressional District, The House Committee on Energy and Commerce provided the following estimates: · Improve Employer-Base Coverage for 355,000 Residents; · Provide credits to help pay for coverage for up to 180,000 Households; · Improve Medicare for 109,000 Beneficiaries, including Closing the Prescription Drug Donut Hole for 9,100 Seniors; · Allow 14,000 Small Businesses to obtain affordable health care coverage and provide tax credits to help reduce health insurance costs for up to 12,300 small businesses; · Provide coverage for 43,000 uninsured residents; · Protect up to 1,700 families from bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs; · Reduce the cost of uncompensated care hospitals and health care providers by $20 Million. The Bill will come to a vote of the full House after a 72-hour review period is completed. ###
11.13.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Funding Attached as Part of Interior-Environment Appropriations Bill, Passed Yesterday by Full Vote of the House of Representatives Washington, DC—Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), a Member of the House Appropriations Committee, secured $300,000 to improve water and waste infrastructure in Trumbull County. The program will provide financial assistance to residents who are unable to provide or generate the necessary capital to upgrade or replace their Home Sewage Treatment Systems (HSTS). The Trumbull County Commissioners, the Trumbull County Planning Commission and the Trumbull County Board of Health have worked collaboratively over the last several years to identify a solution to the widespread problem facing a large number of Trumbull County residents; replacing costly Home Sewage Treatment Systems (HSTS) that are failing and have been identified as a public health nuisance. In 2008, the Trumbull County Health Department conducted over 5,000 residential sewage inspections and found 85% were failing. “During an economy where finding cost-saving solutions are imperative, I am proud to have secured the funding for this important project,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “The financial burden caused by replacing these systems is unavoidable, but this program will provide the assistance to those that need it.” These funds are included it a Nuisance Abatement Program as part of H.R. 2996, the Interior-Environment Appropriations bill that funds the Department of Interior and the Environmental Protection Agency. Trumbull County will administer this revolving fund, available to residents who do not qualify for local Linked Deposit funding, and who cannot generate the required capital to upgrade or replace their failing HSTS's, which can cost $15,000 or more. The Nuisance Abatement Fund will provide for a designated funding source in Trumbull County to upgrade or replace failing HSTS's and place the construction costs on the participating resident's tax bill. That special assessment can be used to repay the 1% state loan Trumbull County will obtain as the 45% match for the State & Tribal Assistance Grant (STAG). The conference report on the Interior-Environment Appropriations bill, passed yesterday by the House of Representatives, is subject to action by the Senate and will require a signature of the President. ###
11.13.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Funding Acquired in 2009 War Supplemental Appropriations Act Washington, DC—Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), a Member of the House Committee on Appropriations, applauded the distribution of Retroactive Stop Loss Special Pay benefits, a program secured in the 2009 War Supplemental Appropriations Act. This program allocates $500 per month, or any portion of a month, to service members who were retained on active duty due to Stop Loss. Service members who had their enlistment extended or retirement suspended due to Stop Loss between Sept. 11, 2001 and Sept. 30, 2009 are eligible for these benefits. “Stop Loss has impacted so many service members that have had to place their futures on hold, leave their families back home, and risk their lives for our safety,” said Congressman Ryan. “By no means do these funds serve as compensation for the sacrifices made by our service members and their families, but a token of our gratitude as we continue to develop programs that will support and enhance the lives of our brave men and women who serve our Country.” The Secretary of Defense announced a comprehensive plan in March 2009 to eliminate the current use of Stop Loss, while retaining the authority for future use under extraordinary circumstances. The goal of the Department of Defense is to cut the amount of Stop Loss by 50 percent by June 2010, and to eliminate the regular use of Stop Loss by March 2011. The Department of Defense estimates approximately 185,000 personnel are eligible for Retroactive Stop Loss Special Pay. Service members may begin submitting their claim for Retroactive Stop Loss Special Pay immediately, in accordance with the 2009 War Supplemental Appropriations Act, and must be submitted to respective services no later than Oct. 21, 2010. ###
11.13.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Joined Committee Member Senator Sherrod Brown and Delphi Retiree Representative Bruce Gump, House Hearing to Follow Washington, DC—Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) appeared before the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions today to speak on behalf of Delphi retirees. Congressman Ryan was introduced by Senator Sherrod Brown, a Member of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions. In his remarks, Congressman Ryan thanked the Obama Administration for their assistance with GM pensions and health care assistance, and addressed the major cuts in the pensions and benefits of Delphi retirees. In addition, Congressman Ryan introduced Mr. Bruce Gump, a constituent from Warren, Ohio, who testified as the Representative of the Delphi Retirees. “I was pleased to join Senator Brown at his committee hearing to discuss an issue we both care deeply about, and to introduce my friend, Bruce Gump, who has been a strong voice on behalf of his fellow Delphi Retirees,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “I will continue to work to ensure that the Delphi Retirees have their story heard, and I look forward to the upcoming hearing in the House on this issue.” The pension and benefit cuts are estimated to affect over 70,000 retirees across the nation, of which over 5,000 retirees live in Ohio’s 17th Congressional District. Last week, Congressman Ryan announced the decision of the House Committee on Education and Labor to conduct a hearing on the pension and healthcare benefit reductions caused by the Delphi Corporation bankruptcy. The decision was made after a request made by Congressman Ryan to Committee Chairman George Miller (Committee on Education and Labor) and Subcommittee Chairman Rob Andrews (Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions). A date has not yet been confirmed for the House hearing. ### For a YouTube clip of Congressman Ryan’s remarks at Today’s Hearing, please click the following link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRolyI148OA
11.13.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Funds Awarded to local company in Akron, Will Create New Jobs and Cut Energy Costs Washington, DC—Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) announced that $57,470,137 has been awarded from the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act to fund Smart Grid Technology to FirstEnergy Service Company, an Akron-based company. The grant comes as part of a $3.4 billion investment (matched by industry funding for a total of $8 billion) in energy grid modernization, the largest in U.S. History. “This investment is further evidence that the Economic Stimulus Package is working, and working quickly,” said Congressman Ryan. “This grant will create new jobs that can’t get outsourced, and the implemented technology created right here in Akron will cut energy costs for Americans across the country.” This Smart Grid modernization will hasten our nation's transition to a smarter and more reliable electric system. An analysis by the Electric Power Research Institute estimates that smart grid technology implementation could reduce electricity use by more than 4 percent by 2030 (Approximately $20.4 billion). The end result will promote energy-efficient choices for consumers and strengthen the growth of renewable energy sources. Today, one-hundred private companies, utilities, manufacturers, cities, and other partners received Smart Grid Investment grants. These grants will fund the installation of over 2.5 million smart meters along with other technologies that will ultimately reduce energy costs for customers. The Department of Energy estimates that 1,239 jobs will be created in our region for one year as a result of this grant award, which will be matched by FirstEnergy Service Company for a total of almost $115 million. This investment includes the following: State City Name of Awardee Brief Project Description Recovery Act Funding OH Akron FirstEnergy Service Company Modernize the electrical grid and reduce peak energy demand by leveraging the crosscutting nature of different smart grid technologies, including significant communication and information management systems, deploying a smart meter network and automating the distribution system. $57,470,137 ###
11.13.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Washington, DC—Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) applauded the decision of the House Education and Labor Committee to conduct a hearing on the pensions and healthcare benefits that may be cut because of the Delphi Corporation bankruptcy. The decision comes after a request made by Congressman Ryan to Committee Chairman George Miller (Committee on Education and Labor) and Subcommittee Chairman Rob Andrews (Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions). “Today’s decision will help raise more awareness in Congress, and hopefully will help us protect the future for nearly 70,000 hardworking Americans, over 5,000 of whom are in my district, whose retirement benefits are threatened by circumstances beyond their control,” said Congressman Ryan. “As part of the economic stimulus bill that passed in February, Democrats were able to secure critical benefits that helped Delphi retirees, but I believe more can be done.” “Far too often workers are the first ones to get hit when a company declares bankruptcy, said Chairman Andrews. The Health, Employment, Labor and Pensions Subcommittee will examine how we can improve current pension laws to ensure that companies keep their retirement promises to workers. We commend Rep. Ryan for his work in this area and look forward to exploring these important issues.” The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act ( “economic stimulus bill”) increased the Health Coverage Tax Credit (HCTC) from 65 percent to 80 percent of qualified health insurance premiums—allowing individuals to pay only 20% of the cost of a health plan premium. The stimulus bill also, for the first time, allowed voluntary employees' beneficiary association (VEBA) trusts established during bankruptcy to qualify for the HCTC. As a result of these changes, participants in the VEBA established by Delphi salaried workers during Delphi’s bankruptcy will qualify for an 80% HCTC. Congressman Ryan has been a leader in the efforts to provide security for the supplemental and pension benefits of the Delphi Retirees, and has held discussions with both state and federal officials—including a meeting with President Obama on Air Force One--to address this critical issue and its local impact in the event of inaction. In July 2009, Congressman Ryan introduced legislation to provide funding for a Voluntary Employees Beneficiary Association (VEBA) which would cover Delphi hourly and salaried employees and retirees that lost their health coverage through Delphi and GM’s Chapter 11. A date has not yet been determined for the House hearing. A Senate hearing on this issue has been set for October 29, 2009. ###
11.13.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} VA Regional Offices to Process Emergency Benefits Today; Up to $3000 per Veteran for Housing and Textbooks Washington, DC – Starting today, VA Regional Offices will be processing requests for college benefits afforded by the new GI Bill. Qualified veterans were able to apply for the new college benefits beginning in May of this year, and started receiving tuition benefits in August, along with housing and book stipends which are paid retroactively. Almost 300,000 claims have been submitted for the program. Unfortunately, thousands of veterans who applied for educational benefits under the program have not yet received their payments due to delayed processing. These emergency checks will help them make payments towards books and housing. “I applaud the VA for acting quickly to provide these emergency checks to those who risk their lives to protect our country,” said Congressman Ryan. “The benefits of higher education are invaluable, and I strongly encourage our veterans to take advantage of this program.” The checks for up to $3,000 will be distributed to eligible students at VA regional offices across the country starting today. Students can go to one of the 57 regional benefit offices with a photo ID, a course schedule and a certificate of eligibility to request payment of their housing and book allowance. Students can also apply online at www.va.gov or request free van service, provided by volunteers, to transport them to the nearest VA regional office. To obtain this service, veterans should call their nearest VA medical center and ask for the “Volunteer Transportation Coordinator.” The distributed money will be deducted from future payments, which are expected to arrive on the normal schedule – the beginning of the month following the period for which they are being reimbursed. Veterans who apply for the emergency benefits online will receive their payments in the mail after processing. A list of regional VA offices is available at: www.vba.va.gov/VBA/benefits/offices.asp. The VA is also working with Veteran Services Organizations to send representatives to campuses with large veteran student bodies and to help students access the regional offices. ###
11.13.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) and Congresswoman Betty Sutton (OH-13) announced that the University of Akron will receive $1 million for a Clean Vehicle Technology project to put highly energy-efficient vehicles on our nation’s roads. There is potential for the project to commercialize technologies that will result in savings up to 50 percent less fuel usage. The project also has potential to develop a truly revolutionized vehicle that is sustainable, efficient and clean. This funding was secured out of the conference report on H.R. 3183, the Fiscal Year 2010 Energy and Water Appropriation bill. Congressman Ryan, a member of the powerful Appropriations Committee, Subcommittee on Energy and Water was a conferee on that report. Specifically, this funding comes out of a $311 million investment by the Department of Energy in Vehicle Technology to collaborate with industry to improve fuel efficiency with better batteries and engines that burn clean, domestic fuel. “With the Akron Clean Vehicle Technology project, the production the new “green” Chevy Cruze in Lordstown and cutting edge research being performed at the University of Akron, Kent State and Youngstown State University, our area is poised to be a world leader in clean vehichle research and production,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “I am adamant that the green jobs of the future be created in Northeast Ohio.” “This funding is critical for the University of Akron to invest in technologies that will create the next generation of vehicles with improved fuel efficiency, as well as better and cleaner engines and batteries,” Rep. Sutton said. Specific goals of the program will be to demonstrate that advanced vehicle drive technologies work efficiently and economically. The program will involve networking with auto-companies to reduce the time to commercialize advanced drive technologies. Mostly, the program intends to make Akron an energy-efficient vehicle innovation laboratory and incubator for the U.S. and solve problems that hamper the deployment of hybrid vehicles. H.R. 3183 will also continue the Title 17 Innovative Technology Loan Guarantee and the Advanced Technology Vehicle Manufacturing Loan programs to accelerate the implementation of renewable energy generation and to establish a domestic manufacturing base. ###
09.30.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Grant is part of a program Congressman Ryan created last year (WASHINGTON, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) and Congressman John Boccieri (OH-16) are proud to announce that Stark State College of Technology will be receiving a $300,000 grant to help make textbooks more affordable for Stark State students. The monies are part of the College Course Materials Rental Initiative Program which passed through Congress as part of last year’s College Opportunity and Affordability Act. Congressman Ryan introduced an amendment to that bill which created a nationwide pilot program to help expand the availability of programs that allow students to rent college course materials instead of buying them. A federal report found that the price of college textbooks nearly tripled from 1986 to 2004 — an average increase of 6 percent a year (twice the rate of inflation)—and surveys show that students now spend approximately $1000 per year on their college textbooks. “Textbooks are an often overlooked part of rising tuition costs; yet for many students, the skyrocketing costs of textbooks alone can mean the difference between attending college or not,” said Congressman Ryan. “I am proud that this program is helping make a college education as affordable as possible for American families and students.” “Textbook prices are following the trend of out of control tuition increases at colleges across the nation,” said Boccieri. “This program addresses a significant barrier to higher education for struggling families.” “The cost of textbooks can be a challenge for all students; however, for low and moderate income families, it can become a disproportionate burden affecting their ability to remain in college,” said Kathy Feichter, Stark State College bookstore manager. “This program will provide significant savings to Stark State students and allow us to create and offer quite an extensive textbook rental program to benefit our students.” The pilot program expands efforts already underway at a number of colleges and universities around the country, including Bowling Green State University’s bookstore, whose textbook program saved 151 students $11,000 in the cost of new books. Other programs include a rental program at San Mateo County Community College in California that saved participants $707,483 over the course of two and half years and Appalachia State University in North Carolina, which saved students $3,133,200 in one semester.
09.21.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Washington, DC—Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) voted today for the largest investment in community colleges and college aid in American history. The Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act (SAFRA) (H.R. 3221) will expand access to an affordable college education to more American students, transform early education opportunities, and build a world-class community college system at no cost to American tax payers. The passage of the SAFRA will help build a stronger, more competitive American economy for the future while saving taxpayers money. “One of the key components to rebuilding our local economy is to have access to high quality, affordable higher education,” said Congressman Ryan. “I want to make sure that our area’s young adults are ready to take on the engineering, green energy and high tech manufacturing jobs that we’re creating here at home. This bill will help make our new Eastern Gateway Community College one of the finest in the nation.” The bill will have specific impacts on community colleges from around the country including Eastern Gateway Community College which opened its doors in the Mahoning Valley just last week. The bill creates a new competitive grant program for community colleges to improve instruction, work with local employers, improve student support services and help implement innovative reforms that lead to a college degree or certificate. The Challenge Grant funds can be used to facilitate transfer of credit articulation agreements, create workforce programs that blend basic skills and occupational training that would lead to industry-recognized credentials, increase community college completion rates and expand academic and training programs for high-wage occupations in high-demand industries. “This bill will help transform our community college system into the very best education and job training centers in the world,” said Congressman Ryan. “We are going to ensure that our students graduate with the tools they need to get high-wage jobs in high demand industries.” The bill will also significantly increase government grant and loan assistance for college tuition payments. Pell Grants, already distributed to more than 7 million students, will increase to $6,900 by 2019 from $5,350 today. SAFRA also keeps interest rates low on government-subsidized loans, makes substantial investments in early childhood education, expands the Perkins low-cost loan program to every U.S. College, and simplifies the process of applying for student financial aid.
09.21.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Washington, DC – Congressman Ryan voted for the most comprehensive national vehicle research and development program in American history today. The bipartisan Advanced Vehicle Technology Act, which is supported by a broad coalition, including the United Autoworkers, the big three auto makers and groups like the National Association of Manufacturers, will invest in American energy and technology. The bill is expected to create huge opportunities for communities like the 17th District which is already becoming a leader in advanced fuel and automotive research and development. “Our area is not just benefiting, but leading this revolution. Next year, the Chevy Cruze which gets 40 miles to the gallon will be produced right here at GM-Lordstown and moving forward from there, GM will continue to make it’s most cutting edge vehicles in our community,” said Congressman Ryan. “We are going to be a world leader in innovative automotive technologies.” The Advanced Vehicle Technology Act will build on the historic fuel efficiency standards enacted under a Democratic-led Congress in 2007 and our success with the Cash for Clunkers program – a national program that rewarded Americans who turned in almost 700,000 gas-guzzling and air-polluting older cars for newer, more fuel-efficient models. In addition, the House also passed an historic clean energy jobs bill that will help the private sector create millions of new American jobs that can’t be shipped overseas and help energy-intensive industries transition to a cleaner, more profitable future. “Right now at YSU, the University of Akron and at startups all over our area, cutting edge research into the next generation of cars and fuels is already moving forward,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “This bill will help supercharge those efforts and will ultimately create more jobs and more opportunities for our families.”
09.11.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} (Washington, DC) -- Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) issued the following statement on the anniversary of the September 11, 2001 attacks on the World Trade Center, the Pentagon and Shanksville, Pennsylvania. “As we reflect on the heroes who lost their lives that day, we can’t forget the families that were left behind and the valor of the firefighters and police officers who gave their lives in service to our country. Their sacrifice reminds us what heroism is and of our responsibility to give our first responders the tools they need to succeed,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Our work to make America and the world a safer and more secure place isn’t done. We must bring our men and women home from Iraq and Afghanistan safely, responsibly and as soon as possible and we must continue to forward the cause of peace throughout the world.”
09.10.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} (Washington, DC) -- Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) issued the following statement on the agreement between IUE-CWA and General Motors on retirement benefits. “I am thrilled about the outcome of the negotiations. I also want to commend the leadership of Governor Ted Strickland as well as Senator Sherrod Brown. This means over millions of dollars in pensions will remain in the Mahoning Valley and Ohio. The union and its members are to be commended for their leadership and persistence in the negotiations with General Motors.” “This agreement will solidify our local economy and allow us to build for the future. With approximately 4000 local Delphi hourly workers now getting their full pension, GM adding a second shift at the Lordstown facility, the continued development of our business software cluster and our area's growing green technology sector, we are primed to benefit from the next upturn in the economy. Tough times don't last, tough people do. We all worked together on this. And once again our people have shown the tenacity and persistence that are leading to the economic comeback of our community.” “This is a good day, but work remains to be done. I remain committed to working on behalf of the approximately 1000 salaried employees to ensure they receive the benefits and health care that they earned through their years of hard work and dedicated service.”
08.03.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) introduced legislation that would provide funding for a Voluntary Employees Beneficiary Association (VEBA) which would cover Delphi hourly and salaried employees and retirees that lost their health coverage through Delphi and GM’s Chapter 11. The VEBA would cover hourly employees of the IUE-CWA, USW, IAM and other unions as well as Delphi salaried retirees who lost their coverage as a result of the bankruptcy. “For the past seven months I have worked tirelessly on behalf of Delphi salaried retirees, the IUE-CWA, and other employees who are losing their health benefits,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “This represents the next step in that battle. I will not stand by and watch people who have given a lifetime of service be left behind.” The bill, introduced July 31 2009, instructs the Treasury Department to place three billion of unused money from the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (TARP) into a healthcare trust for Delphi retirees that lose their health coverage through Delphi and GM’s Chapter 11 bankruptcies. The VEBA will provide healthcare at levels similar to that which retirees are either currently receiving or received prior to Delphi’s bankruptcy. Congressman Ryan was joined by Thaddeus McCotter (R-MI), as well as Ohio Democratic Congresswomen Betty Sutton, Mary Jo Kilroy and Marcy Kaptur, as well as Congressmen Dennis Kucinich, Charlie Wilson, and John Boccieri as original co-sponsors.
07.31.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) voted to extend up to $2 billion in funds for the wildly popular “cash for clunkers” program that he co-sponsored. The law allows consumers to trade in their old cars for vouchers worth up to $4,500 to help pay for new, more fuel-efficient vehicles. The Consumer Assistance to Recycle and Save Act has been active for only five days and has already proven to be wildly popular with consumers. “In only five days, we almost exhausted the entire program. People are lining up to get into auto dealerships and take advantage of this unprecedented program,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “I hope also that those are taking advantage of this program will consider buying American-made vehicles.” The legislation provides rebates for cars and trucks in the following four categories: Passenger Cars: The old vehicle must get 18 mpg or less. New vehicles with improvement of at least 4 mpg will get a $3,500 voucher. New vehicles with improvement of at least 10 mpg will get a $4,500 voucher. Light-Duty Trucks: The old vehicle must get 18 mpg or less. New vehicles with improvement of at least 2 mpg will get a $3,500 voucher. New vehicles with improvement of at least 5 mpg will get a $4,500 voucher. Large light-Duty Trucks: The old vehicle must get 15 mpg or less. New vehicles with improvement of at least 1 mpg will get a $3,500 voucher or trade-in of a “work truck.” New vehicles with improvement of at least 2 mpg will get a $4,500 voucher. Work Trucks: The old vehicle must be a pre-2002 model. New vehicles in the same or smaller weight class will get a $3,500 voucher.
07.31.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Programs will lead to new products/manufacturing techniques, green jobs (Washington, DC) -- Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), a member of the House Appropriations Committee, has secured $16,000,000 from the Defense Appropriations spending bill as part of an ongoing effort to build the next generation of cutting edge defense products and develop the next generation of manufacturing techniques in Northeast Ohio. The programs range from advanced materials research into nanocomposites, 3D scanning and inspections and new research and clinical trials on cancer fighting drugs. “We are going to be a world leader in advanced manufacturing and developing products that keep our soldiers safe in the field,” said Congressman Ryan. “These programs, especially the advanced materials and fabrication programs, have the potential to spin off civilian applications, energy generation and green collar jobs.” $3,000,000 for the ARL 3D Model Based Inspection and Scanning Program: The Army Research Lab (ARL) is funding digital 3D model-based design and manufacturing computer operating environments that eliminate design waste and enables engineers and local suppliers a more continuous process flow. The project will maximize manufacturing efficiency in the design process and reduce cost. $2,000, 000 for Counter-threat Finance Global: Funds the development of an integrated approach to the planning, execution, analysis, and monitoring of US and coalition counter-threat finance (CTF); counternarcoterrorism; counter-weapons of mass destruction; counter-improvised explosive device; counter-terrorism; and stability operations across Southern Europe, the Middle East, Central Asia, Latin America, and Asia-Pacific. The project relies upon the use of market-tested financial intelligence gathering, relationship discovery, and supply chain monitoring processes. Revere Data, the recipient of the project, recently decided to move some of its operations from California to Youngstown. $2,000,000 for Advanced Nanocomposite Materials for Lightweight Armor- YSU: This project will help develop a viable lightweight, cost efficient, integrated armor plate for soldiers in the field. The program combines the unique scientific, technical, and processing cababilites of personnel at Youngstown State University, Fireline TCON, Inc. (FTi), and Iten Industries to develop and test novel lightweight nanocomposite materials for armor protection of soldiers and vehicles. $2,500,000 for the Defense Metals Technology Center: Funds will be used to develop a roadmap of industrial base needs, shortcomings, and risk management strategies. Significant research will be used to create a blueprint of the United States' industrial base manufacturing capabilities to reduce the potential for Single Point Failures that negatively impact the Army's ability to maintain superior military readiness. The DMTC has headquartered in Canton, OH and it is expected that Northeast Ohio as a whole will factor prominently in their plans to expand defense manufacturing capabilities. $1,500,000 for research into Intensive Quenching for Advanced Weapons Systems: This project will achieve higher power density requirements through the application of IQ on alloy steel, meaning technology to heat treat high strength helicopter gears. Preliminary results show that the IQAWS improves bending fatigue resistance of gear teeth by more than 4 times. A cross service benefit is its application for providing lighter, longer life weapons for ultra-lightweight 120mm cannons to support the generation-next Future Combat Systems. . $2,000,000 for Pediatric Cancer Research and Clinical Trials: The funding will be used to enhance important ongoing pediatric cancer clinical trials support the creation of significant, new clinical trials and prevent the discontinuation of critical childhood cancer trials, benefiting children of military families, civilian DOD employees, and other children afflicted with childhood cancer. Various operations of this national program are based in Akron. $2,000,000 for Printed and Conformal Electronics for Military Applications: Future defense platforms will need innovative electronics solutions in order to maintain operational superiority. The combination of new, advanced materials and printed and conformal electronics will enable flexible, lightweight and rugged photovoltaic, battery, sensor, and communication products for military systems. Integration with textiles and other surfaces will enable production of electronics for military infrastructure not possible today. $1,000,000 TACFAB: The TacFab system will create a portable casting facility and deploy it for test and evaluation. This system will have dual-use application, specifically within the U.S. energy sector, municipalities, and Homeland Security (emergency or post-disaster response). Various manufacturing and assemblage steps will be performed across Northeast Ohio.
07.27.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Pro-Life and Pro-Choice leaders join hands behind common ground legislation to reduce the need for abortion (Washington, DC) – U.S. Representatives Tim Ryan (OH-17), a member of the Congressional Pro-Life Caucus, and Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), a member of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, today announced an agreement with pro-life leaders and major pro-choice organizations on groundbreaking legislation aimed at reducing the need for abortion. The legislation brings traditionally opposing groups together behind programs that prevent unintended pregnancies and programs that support pregnant women and new mothers in an attempt to dramatically reduce the need for abortion in America. “With this legislation, we have found common ground on one of the most divisive debates in America,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “It’s my belief that if we are really serious about reducing the need for abortions in this country, then we need to promote prevention in order to achieve that goal. People may—and likely will—continue to have disagreements over this issue, but we must still work together in the instances where we agree.” “This is a moment. We have legislation that finds common ground between two groups with opposing views and it came about through listening and talking instead of shouting past each other. It demonstrates how we move forward together – fulfilling an issue President Obama has repeatedly talked about: finding common ground on abortion,” said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro. “It moves us beyond the debate over the legality of abortion, toward a common purpose of reducing the need for abortion.” Supporting the Ryan-DeLauro bill at the bill introduction were NARAL Pro-Choice America and Florida Megachurch Pastor Reverend Joel Hunter, a one-time President-elect of the Christian Coalition; Planned Parenthood Federation of America and pro-life Reverend Jim Wallis of Sojourners; Pro-life Catholics in Alliance for the Common Good and Catholics for a Free Choice (full list of endorsements attached). The bill, Preventing Unintended Pregnancies, Reducing the Need for Abortion, and Supporting Pregnant Women Act, is comprehensive legislation that pairs prevention programs like increased access to contraception for low-income women and comprehensive sex education with support programs for pregnant women and new moms, including expanded health coverage for pregnant women and children, a national adoption campaign and support for pregnant and parenting students. It aims to reduce the prevalence of abortion by addressing its root causes: unintended pregnancies and the lack of resources and help for women who become pregnant. Each year, roughly 1.2 million women undergo an abortion and approximately one out of every five pregnancies ended in abortion. Nearly half of all pregnancies are unintended and about 60 percent of abortions are had by women with incomes at 200 percent or below of the poverty line. “The legislation is the product of several years of negotiations,” according to Rachel Laser of Third Way, a Washington think tank that has been intimately involved in the discussions. “Together we planted the seeds of good faith and were determined to see it blossom into concrete policies that embody shared values for all parties involved.” The bill supporters intend to promote the legislation through Congress and the White House. Although the White House rarely endorses specific bills, White House Domestic Policy Council Director Melody Barnes called it “a very positive development.” An audio recording of the press conference can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ShRHXfpghhc
07.27.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Accolade applauded by Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, Governor Ted Strickland, Senator Sherrod Brown and Congressman Tim Ryan (Washington, DC) – In yet another sign that Youngstown is turning things around, the city was honored in this month’s Entrepreneur magazine as one of the top ten best cities in America to start a business. The article cites the work being done at the Youngstown Business Incubator, the work of the area’s “dynamic congressman and energetic young mayor” and the affordability of the region as all contributing to the improving climate. “Given Tim Ryan’s relentless advocacy for his congressional district in Washington, it does not surprise me to see that Youngstown was recognized as a top place in the nation to start a business,” said Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi. “During my travels to the Mahoning Valley, I saw a region that consistently looks to the future. This well-deserved recognition is yet another sign that the efforts of Congressman Ryan and local business leaders and institutions are starting to yield results that will position Northeast Ohio to take advantage of the emerging green economy.” “Youngstown is making the transformation from a historic manufacturing powerhouse to a place where investments are being made in the innovative jobs of the future,” said Governor Ted Strickland. “I am proud of this recognition and hopeful that more start-up businesses will recognize the potential to grow and thrive in Youngstown.” “I’m thrilled that the nation now knows what so many of us in Ohio know, Youngstown is leading the way in business innovation,” said Senator Sherrod Brown. “This is well-deserved recognition for the Youngstown Business Incubator and for Turning Technologies. I look forward to continuing to work with Youngstown’s business and community leaders to strengthen local industry and create new jobs.” “For generations, our community has been an innovator and leader in manufacturing and business giving rise to some of America’s best known brands and companies,” said Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17). ”We have a spirit in this region that says that when we get knocked down, we get back up again and move forward. That is what’s happening right now. We’re getting back up and we will once again be a national leader that puts out the must cutting edge products, technologies and builds some of the world’s greatest companies.”
07.20.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Money part of continuing effort to increase the quality of life in the district (Washington, DC) -- Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), a member of the House Appropriations Committee, has secured $2,400,000 from the Labor Health and Human Services spending bill as part of an ongoing effort to increase the quality of life in Northeast Ohio and give our kids the tools they need to succeed in the future. The programs specifically target social and emotional learning, green jobs training programs, arts, after school programming, healthcare and kindergarten programs. “Rebuilding our economy isn’t just about making sure the jobs are here, it’s about making sure we are healthy, ready to compete and our kids are up to the challenges that face them in the future,” said Congressman Ryan. “These programs will help educate our children, give them safe and challenging after school programs, increase the level of health and wellness for our community and put people back to work.” $900,000 for the SEL Skills for Life: Social and Emotional Learning in Schools: The Collaborative for Academic, Social and Emotional Learning (CASEL) will partner with Morningside Center for Teaching Social Responsibility and the Inner Resilience Program to assist Youngstown, Niles and Warren City School Districts to develop a sustainable district wide implementation of social emotional learning (SEL) in eight schools. $200,000 for The Social-Emotional Learning Project at Youngstown State University: Creates a pilot project that will train four faculty from Youngstown State University in Social-Emotional Learning Theory by the Collaborative for Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning towards turning the curriculum into a required course for all Education majors at the University. Additionally, these student teachers will be required to keep an anecdotal record describing how they have incorporated SEL into their teaching on a daily basis. This anecdotal record will be used by the project evaluator to help determine the success of the project. $200,000 NEOUCOM Anatomy Teaching Laboratory Renovation: The monies will go towards renovating The Northeastern Ohio Universities College of Medicine and Pharmacy (NEOUCOM) gross anatomy teaching laboratory. This upgrade will remedy design features of the facility that pose instructional problems and increase the efficiency of space utilization to improve the overall teaching environment. This renovation will assure compliance with ADA and accrediting agency requirements. It will increase the useable size of the teaching laboratory to accommodate additional students and provide modern technologies for student learning including computer based teaching equipment, a video camera and television monitors to display dissection in “real time,” electronic communication equipment and power point capabilities. The number of teaching stations will be increased from 24 to 30 to accommodate up to 150 medical students. $100,000 Inspiring Minds After School Program: Inspiring Minds and the YMCA of Warren have partnered to offer an After School Program where youth from the City of Warren can experience a safe place to take part in recreational sports, opportunities to enhance academia, personal development and recreation. Inspiring Minds will provide healthy relationships and adult role models. The After School Program is unique in that it is the only structured recreation program located in the heart of downtown Warren. $305,000 Youngstown Grey to Green Initiative: Green job training program participants will have opportunities to learn skills for a wide range of green industries from sustainable land management to carpentry to green energy. Trainees will learn skills associated with energy efficient home rehabilitation and modernization by making energy efficient improvement to city housing stock. Trainees will also be trained in deconstructing uninhabitable, vacant homes. $200,000 Mahoning Valley Tradeswomen TOOLS: Training, Outreach, Opportunity, Leadership and Support: The Raymond John Wean Foundation and Hard Hatted Women will partner to launch the Tradeswomen TOOLS program linking women in the Trumbull and Mahoning Counties to opportunities in high-wage, nontraditional fields. It will use the expertise of women already working in nontraditional fields to advance diversity initiatives for unemployed women within the building trades, heavy highway, energy/utility sector, green building sector and advanced manufacturing and then links them with employment opportunities. $250,000 Summa Center for Minority Health and Health Disparities Solutions: Summa Health System will receive $500,000 to establish the Center for Minority Health and Health Disparities Solutions. The urgent need to improve the health of African Americans and other minority populations in Summit County, Ohio, is apparent through county data and issues raised within community dialogues facilitated in 2008 by the Akron Health Department’s Office of Minority Health, and publicly documented by the Akron Beacon Journal. The Center’s mission will be to understand, reduce and eventually eliminate health disparities in Summit County. $145,000 Youngstown Program in Arts and Career Education for Young Inner City Pupils: The project will provide for 100 young children in blighted inner-city Youngstown, Ohio an intensified two-year program in the arts and in career information with a view towards current enrichment and longer-term benefits. The project will be composed of two parts: specialized classes, lectures and demonstrations, hands-on experiences, involvement of the public, and record keeping; and a five-year follow-up to note residual effects of these experiences, and a pre- and post-evaluation of the children's status and progress. Parents will be actively involved in all aspects of the project. $100,000 Youngstown/Mahoning Valley United Way Success by 6 Initiative: Success by 6, created by United Way of America about 10 years ago, is a six-week intensive kindergarten readiness program for at-risk children. The funds will go towards the start-up costs to begin Success by 6 in the summer of 2010 for the majority of the Mahoning County school districts. United Way research on Success by 6 has determined that for every dollar invested in early childhood education, over $17 is saved through reduced social service dependency, lessened juvienile delinquency issues, and judicial costs. The bill passed the full House of Representatives today but still requires action by the Senate and must be signed into law by the President.
07.08.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} $2.2 Million for a Warren Business Incubator dedicated to alternative energy; $250,000 to help commercialize new local products among the highlights (Washington, DC) -- Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), a member of the House Appropriations Committee, has secured $8,150,000 from the Energy and Water, and Financial Services spending bills in order to create jobs and reinvent our local economy. The earmarks highlight Congressman Ryan’s vision for the community’s future. This integrated approach towards economic development includes funding a new Incubator in Warren to focus on energy sustainability, advanced research at Youngstown State University into new fuels, new clean vehicle technology in Akron and the money needed to help commercialize the research and build the companies that will manufacture and export it. “The energy revolution isn’t going to happen in the future, it is happening right here and right now” said Congressman Ryan. “The money that we’ve secured is going to help us research, develop, commercialize, manufacture and then export the next generation of products that are going to bring good quality jobs back to the community.” An explanation of the programs can be found below: $2,200,000 for the Warren Technology and Business Center for Energy Sustainability Money would be used to rehabilitate a facility in Warren. The prime focus of the incubator will be the creation and expansion of clean technologies including alternative energy sources and green building materials. This will also be the first area building to be rehabilitated under LEED standards and is expected to be a model for green building redevelopment. $250,000 for the NorTech: Tech Leaders Phase II This Program would help small businesses and the region’s educational institutions commercialize innovative ideas by providing the critical seed money and businesness know-how necessary to bring their products to the market. Tech Leaders II would support 20 innovation projects over a 18 month period, leading to the creation of new advanced energy-focused concepts and the adoption of new technologies by existing companies. The requested funds will support new business formation, small business growth and job creation in the energy and electronics technology industries by providing the earliest stages of seed funding for high potential projects. Outreach would be targeted to the entire Northeast Ohio region, engaging institutions such as the University of Akron, Youngstown State University, Lorain County Community College, the College of Wooster, and others. $1,000,000 for Research and Development of Clean Vehicle Technology Funding to research and develop a sustainable, efficient and clean car at the University of Akron. This project could greatly strengthen the Ohio automobile industry by creating an innovative new product that is truly energy efficient. $1,500,000 Advanced Automotive Fuels Research and Development and Commercialization Cluster The money will help create a research, development and commercialization “cluster” that will bring together the ongoing efforts at Youngstown State University to develop an integrated system that demonstrates the potential for next generation fuels. The cluster has three interlinked teams: Advanced Fuels Generation, Advanced Fuels Storage and Advanced Fuels Conversion. $2,000,000 Lawnview Sewer Overflow Detention Basin The Niles sewer collection system has limited capacity in an area generally bounded by Mosquito Creek, North Road, 422, and Main St. During wet weather storm water enters the sanitary sewer and basements flood. This project would increase the capacity and create an overflow basin. $1,000,000 University of Akron National Polymer Innovation Center To create a National Polymer Innovation Center (NPIC) at the University of Akron that would facilitate the commercialization of new technologies in emerging areas of soft matter science and engineering. This is a part of economic development in Ohio in which both established and emerging polymer industries see a key role for collaboration with the university. Future growth requires that both established firms and new enterprises invest substantially in innovations in the rapidly growing fields of polymers from renewable sources, polymer-based medical therapies, biomaterials and bio-imaging. $200,000 for the Western Reserve Port Authority for Economic Development The Western Reserve Economic Development Initiative (WREDI) is a regional approach to revitalizing the economy of Trumbull and Mahoning Counties. The WREDI project will expand the capabilities of the Western Reserve Port Authority to areas beyond airport administration into the realm of marketing the region, attracting new businesses, participating in financial deals to encourage new investments that will serve to retain and create new jobs.
07.08.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Youngstown and Akron Centers to Receive Over $1.4 Million in Stimulus Spending (Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan announced today that two health clinics in the 17th Congressional District will be receiving over $1.4 million from the American Recover and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) Capital Improvement Program. The Ohio North East Health System’s Community Health Clinic in Youngstown will receive a grant for $880,910 and the Akron Community Health Resources Community Health Clinic will receive $520,060. The money received by the local clinics is part of a release of $851 million in stimulus spending grants to address immediate and pressing health center facility and equipment needs and increase access to health care for millions of Americans. “This targeting funding reinforces this administration’s commitment to quality healthcare and reminds us of the job creation component in the recovery package. This will allow these health clinics to advance construction initiatives and purchase new equipment that is critical to ensure access to high-quality health care,” said Congressman Ryan. “Community Health Clinics have an enormous impact on their communities – they employ physicians, dentists, nurses and medical staff – beyond the outstanding services they provide to patients, a good number of whom are the uninsured.” "Akron Community Health Resources is deeply appreciative of Congressman Ryan's efforts and Congress, in securing $520,060 in federal stimulus funding to support the efforts of ACHR in serving the medically needy and uninsured populations in Summit and Portage Counties,” said John Sniezek, CEO of Akron Community Health Resources. “Without this financial support, ACHR would not be able to effectively serve in excess of 12, 000 patients on an annual basis." “We are planning to use the $880,910.00 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 funds to renovate and equip a new health access point located in the southeast portion of Warren. We anticipate increasing access to affordable, low cost health care to the citizens of southeast Warren, Niles City and Mineral Ridge,” said Dr. Ron Dwinnells, the CEO of Ohio North East Health System. The Recovery Act Capital Improvement Program (CIP) grants will support the construction, repair and renovation of over 1,500 health center sites nationwide. More than 650 centers will use the funds to purchase new equipment or health information technology (HIT) systems, and nearly 400 health centers will adopt and expand the use of electronic health records.
06.29.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} (Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan today voted in favor of the American Energy and Security Act, citing the job creation and money available to help create alternative energy resources for northeastern Ohio. The Act will help revitalize the economy by creating millions of new jobs, increase our national security by reducing our dependence on foreign oil, and preserve our planet by reducing the pollution that causes global warming. The bill passed the House of Representatives on a 219-212 vote. During the Bush‐Cheney years, our dependence on foreign oil increased, the average American household energy costs went up $1,100, American job growth was the slowest of any administration in 75 years, and carbon pollution was ignored for far too long. Too many of our jobs have already gone to other parts of the world, and it is time to stop the bleeding.” said Congressman Ryan. “We’ve had eight years of a Republican energy policy and my District has had $4 per gallon gas to show for it while we transferred $700 billion in wealth from this country to states that want to fly planes into our buildings.” This bill will create a Green Bank which will loan $750 billion dollars to companies that want to create alternative energy resources, and provide $30 billion dollars for medium and small auto suppliers to refurbish and retool so that they can sell their products to windmill companies. Studies show that 1.7 million jobs would be created by this clean energy legislation. That means more good-paying jobs to northeastern Ohio, like those already at Parker-Hannifin that makes the hydraulics that go into wind mills. Thomas Steel in Warren makes specialty steel that goes into solar panels, and Roth Brothers in Youngstown assembles and installs a wind mill that sits on top of buildings. “Our dependency on foreign oil has created hundreds of thousands of jobs over the years in the Middle East and around the world, said the Congressman. It is time to create jobs in America, and that’s what this bill will do.”
06.29.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Calls on local government, business to work together to procure grants (Washington, DC) -- Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) announced five new grants solicitations from the Department of Labor aimed at training workers to work in the energy efficiency and renewable energy industries. The grants are a part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and total around $500 million in direct aid. “I am urging our local governments and local businesses to team up in order to attract these grants to our community,” said Congressman Ryan. “Our time is now, these are the jobs and industries that can lead towards our economic revival and we must act immediately.” The State Labor Market Information Improvement grant would make funds available to collect, analyze and disseminate labor market information. The purpose of this grant would be to create local green energy job banks that job seekers could access to learn what jobs are available to them. The State of Ohio would have to apply for this grant. The application deadline is August 14, 2009. The Energy Training Partnership grant would provide funds for direct training and placement services for workers entering the energy efficiency and renewable energy industries. Private nonprofit organizations that are either national labor-management organizations with local networks or statewide or local nonprofit partnerships are able to apply for this grant. The application deadline is September 4, 2009. The Pathways out of Poverty grant is an effort to integrate training and supportive services for communities seeking a way out of poverty and into economic self-sufficiency through employment in renewable energy industries. The application deadline is September 29, 2009. The State Energy Sector Partnerships and Training grant will help communities implement “sector strategies” which brings together a range of institutions and groups to work collaboratively to create a comprehensive plan to build, attract and grow energy sector jobs. Local workforce investment boards, regional consortia of boards and One Stop Career Centers are all eligible for this grant. The application deadline is October 20, 2009. The Green Capacity Building grant would give funding to organizations to provide training for entry-level positions that would lead to careers in energy efficiency and renewable energy industries. The application deadline is August 5, 2009.
06.19.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Calls for ITC to recommend import relief, President to Act WASHINGTON – Congressman Tim Ryan applauded yesterday’s International Trade Commission decision that has found that import surges from China are costing domestic tire industry workers their jobs. Congressman Ryan has further called upon the ITC to recommend import relief and is asking the President to act on behalf of American manufacturing workers. “Yesterday the ITC sent a message to our trading partners that they must follow fair trade practices will not be allowed to illegally dump products on to our shores,” said Ryan. “This ruling must be followed up with import relief, and I urge the President to act in the interests of the hard working men and women of companies like Denman Tire, right here in Ohio, whose livelihoods depend on foreign countries, like China, abiding by the trade rules that they agreed to when we normalized relations.” The USW petition was submitted to the ITC under Section 421 of the Trade Act of 1974. It became law in 2000 as a condition for China’s entry into the World Trade Organization. Under this safeguard mechanism, companies or workers injured by import surges from China can petition for temporary relief in the form of reduced imports. The USW petition explained how imports of passenger vehicle and light truck tires from China between 2004 and 2008 led to sharp declines in domestic production and over 5,000 job losses. The petition showed that there was a 215 percent increase in imports by volume and a 295 percent increase in imports in terms of dollar value over the five-year period. Ryan wrote to the ITC just days after the petition was filed to express his support and testified at a June 2 ITC hearing on behalf of the workers at the Denman Tire Company factory in Leavittsburg, Ohio. On June 29, the ITC will vote on whether to recommend that the President seek import relief for domestic tire manufacturers. President Obama is expected to receive the ITC’s report and recommendations on July 9, and will make a final decisions on import relief in September.
06.19.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Money secured in Commerce-Justice-Science Spending Bill to be used for youth crime prevention activities, stopping repeat offenders, streamlining police communications, bolstering adult probation programs, enhancing criminal records databases (Washington, DC) -- Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), a member of the House Appropriations Committee, has secured $1,450,000 dollars from the Commerce, Justice and Science spending bill for purposes of crime prevention and justice. The five earmarks target every level of the justice system, including prevention, detection, corrections and rehabilitation. “The projects that we have secured for our community will help create a safer environment for our children and families,” said Congressman Ryan. “We are helping our local law enforcement officials by helping them expand their reach, both in traditional law enforcement roles, but also in community policing and preventative tactics that in the long run will keep kids from turning to crime as an alternative and reduce the number of repeat offenders on our streets.” An explanation of the programs can be found below: AWARD: $100,000 Akron Oriana Halfway House The Misdemeanant Secure Halfway House Facility (MSHF) is a pilot program to provide targeted, researched-backed best practices to treat the growing population of chronic misdemeanor offenders who statistically become repeat felony offenders without comprehensive, confined rehabilitation services and treatment. The goal is to provide cost-effective, comprehensive intervention before such offenders become greater risks to public safety and place more costly demands on existing over-crowded state correctional facilities. MSHF would offer Akron, Barberton and Cuyahoga Falls Municipal Courts the ability to confine, control and reintegrate the chronic misdemeanor offender and make more efficient use of the very limited jail beds for the control and punishment of more serious, felony offenders. This program will be designed to assist an individual offender's re-entry into the community through a process of assessment, intervention, treatment and supervision. AWARD: $200,000 Police Athletic League Activities; Ohio PAL and the Youngstown PAL develop and maintain youth crime prevention programs that promotes interaction and trust between law enforcement officers and youth. PALS partners with the law enforcement community. Primary focus is on underserved communities where there are high incidences of youth crime. Funding will also be used towards the creation of a pilot program to address gang related crime in several Communities. The goal is to provide youth with positive activities during non school hours to prevent juvenile crime. This will be accomplished by providing athletic, educational, and youth enrichment programs during non-school hours. AWARD: $495,000. Weathersfield Township Trustees, Communications Tower We are proposing to update and improve our interoperable communication system by building a 190 foot self supporting communication tower with foundation so that the three communities of Weathersfield Township, City of Niles and Village of McDonald , will be able to communicate effectively for all emergency forces, police, fire and road departments. We are in urgent need since our current tower is totally inefficient. It does not reach all communities and thus puts our citizens and safety forces in danger for lack of emergency communications capabilities. Our current central dispatch for 911 is in Niles. When the City of Niles loses power, Weathersfield Township uses a tower that is not even in Trumbull County. It is not owned by any of the 3 communities and cannot reach the entire region. AWARD: $200,000. Portage County Commissioners, Adult Probation Department; Since prisoners are being released from prison back into their community, or sentenced to community control, we need to make sure they are prepared to be integrated or reintegrated back into society. The way to do this is to make sure they have the necessary social skills to make it in society. They need to know how to obtain, and retain, employment. Programs such as the Community Integration and Socialization Program (C.I.S.P.) are necessary in order to help our clients with employment search assistance, employment preparation, high school equivalency assistance, and professional counseling needs. By doing so, the goal is a reduction in recidivism. AWARD: $455,000 Ohio Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation The Ohio Attorney General requests funding to enhance the Ohio AFIS (central repository for all criminal history records in Ohio), to capture and maintain arrest and fingerprint images for misdemeanor offenses, photos and palm prints. Given that all palm prints will be centralized in Ohio AFIS, funds will enable BCI to solve homicides and other crimes by comparing latent palm prints left at crime scenes with known palm prints stored in BCI files. The Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill is still subject to Senate action and must be signed by the President.
06.17.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Changes will allow cities to use grants to re-hire laid off firefighters, ease cost sharing requirements; Ryan to Continue Push for SAFER funds in FY 2010 Appropriations Process Washington, DC ­­–Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) a member of the powerful House Appropriations Committee that expanded the SAFER grant program as part of the fiscal year 2009 supplemental appropriations bill, vows to continue to make the grant program larger and better suited to help small and midsized cities that have suffered from budget cuts over the past few years. The SAFER grants are used to enhance local fire departments’ abilities to comply with staffing, response and operational standards that have been set by the federal government. The committee moved to expand the scope of the SAFER grants by allowing funds to be used for the re-hiring of laid off firefighters. Today the full House of Representatives voted to pass a version of the bill that had been approved by both House and Senate negotiators. “Right here in our community, firefighters are being laid off because our cities aren’t generating enough revenue to keep them on the job,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “By expanding the scope of these SAFER grants, more communities in the 17th Congressional District will be eligible to apply for them. I also encourage our local communities to be prepared to submit SAFER grant applications when the Federal government opens the application process.” The technical changes in the SAFER program create another tool for local cities and towns to use as they attempt to keep fire fighters on the job, but changing the language of the SAFER program would not change the competitive nature of the grant. Cities would still have to apply and be found eligible for the federal funds. Taken with the Economic Stimulus bill that passed Congress in February, which contained language waiving the local matching requirement for SAFER grants, the bill would bring SAFER grants in line with similar grants available to local law enforcement agencies. The additional waiver authority contained in the new supplemental appropriation would allow waivers from other requirements of the grants, including the length of the grant and the amount of funding per firefighter. In addition, on Friday the House Appropriations Committee voted on a separate bill, the Commerce, Justice and Science FY2010 funding bill, which contained an additional modification to the SAFER grants that instructs the Federal Government to take into account the number of laid-off firefighters in a community when evaluating SAFER grant applications. The CJS Appropriations Bill is expected to be voted on by the full House of Representatives this week, and is still subject to action by the Senate and must be signed by the President. “Small cities and towns around the country need fully-staffed fire departments to ensure the safety and security of the community,” said Congressman Ryan. “The federal government is in a position to help these cities and towns, and it is our duty to do so.”
06.11.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Amendment to the Foreign Relations Authorization Act calls for justice for Karl Hoerig (Washington D.C.) – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) and Congressman John Boccieri (OH-16) today announced the successful passage of an amendment to the Foreign Relations Authorization Act calling for justice in the case of slain Air Force Reserve Major Karl Hoerig. The amendment expresses the sense of Congress that, “The U.S. government should, as a priority matter, work with prosecutors in the State of Ohio, as well as facilitate the cooperation with the government of Brazil, in order to obtain justice in this tragic case.” To date, Brazil refuses to extradite Mrs. Hoerig despite an existing extradition treaty with the U.S. As a result, justice for Major Hoerig’s family remains out of reach, despite the fact that the crime of aggravated murder is recognized by every country in the world. “We are working hard in Washington to secure the justice that Major Hoerig’s family deserves,” said Congressman Ryan. “It is imperative that we bring closure to this case and see that Ms. Hoerig sees trial.” “Karl is my friend and I will not stand by and let this case go unresolved,” said Boccieri. “We are working to correct the uneven extradition treaty Brazil maintains with the U.S. so that we can finally bring Claudia Hoerig to justice and give Karl’s family the closure they rightfully deserve.” Congressman Ryan has fought for the past two years to bring Claudia Hoerig to justice. He has been in constant contact with the U.S. State Department, U.S. Department of Justice, the Brazilian Ambassador to the United States, and the Brazilian Foreign Minister. Congressman Boccieri and Karl Hoerig served in the United States Air Force together since 2000. They flew C-130 airplanes for the 910 Airlift Wing in Youngstown. Earlier this year, Ryan and Boccieri sent a letter to U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton asking for her immediate assistance in obtaining an extradition hearing for Ms. Hoerig, who is a Brazilian national. On March 10, 2007, Claudia Hoerig purchased a Smith and Wesson .357 five shot revolver and spent the rest of the day at the Warren Shooting Range. On March 12, 2007, Ms. Hoerig allegedly shot her husband in their Newton Falls home. She then fled to her native Brazil where she claims citizenship (in addition to her September 28, 1999 U.S. naturalization).
06.10.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) voted for a “cash for clunkers” program that he co-sponsored that will allow consumers to trade in their old cars for vouchers worth up to $4,500 to help pay for new, more fuel-efficient vehicles. The Consumer Assistance to Recycle and Save Act is expected to help jump start the sale of up to one million more fuel-efficient cars and trucks. “The first step towards saving our auto industry is jumpstarting demand in the marketplace,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “This bill is a win for everyone, it will help create auto sales, it will help reduce our dependence on foreign oil and help protect our environment. I also want to urge anyone who is going to take advantage in this program to buy American.” The legislation provides rebates for cars and trucks in the following four categories: Passenger Cars: The old vehicle must get 18 mpg or less. New vehicles with improvement of at least 4 mpg will get a $3,500 voucher. New vehicles with improvement of at least 10 mpg will get a $4,500 voucher. Light-Duty Trucks: The old vehicle must get 18 mpg or less. New vehicles with improvement of at least 2 mpg will get a $3,500 voucher. New vehicles with improvement of at least 5 mpg will get a $4,500 voucher. Large light-Duty Trucks: The old vehicle must get 15 mpg or less. New vehicles with improvement of at least 1 mpg will get a $3,500 voucher or trade-in of a “work truck.” New vehicles with improvement of at least 2 mpg will get a $4,500 voucher. Work Trucks: The old vehicle must be a pre-2002 model. New vehicles in the same or smaller weight class will get a $3,500 voucher. The bipartisan legislation is supported by a broad coalition that includes the AFL-CIO, UAW, car dealers, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers.
06.03.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Additional $20 million comes as an NEG modification, more TAA money Washington, DC ­­–Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) announced that the Federal Government has made available an additional $20,757,746 for the State of Ohio to help workers who have lost their jobs due to the continued national economic crisis. The government expanded current National Emergency Grant (NEG) funds by $1,657,746 to assist approximately 700 employees who were affected by the layoffs at the Chrysler Twinsburg Stamping Plant. The NEG was initially awarded on March 27, 2009 and made funds available to assist workers from other Ohio plants including GM Lordstown. The government also made available $19.1 million in Trade Adjustment Assistance funding. “Our continued economic troubles and the latest developments in the auto industry demand that we act swiftly to get workers the help they desperately need,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “By making these extra monies available, we are getting people the short term relief they need now, while we work on the long term goal of restarting the American economy and creating jobs.”
06.02.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Urges ITC to implement anti-dumping measures on Chinese Tires Washington, DC ­­–Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) testified before the U.S. International Trade Commission today in support of a Section 421 petition supported by the United Steelworkers’ against the flood of Chinese tires into the domestic market. From 2004-2008, we have experienced a surge of nearly 300 percent in dollar terms and over 200 percent by volume. Meanwhile, U.S. production of tires has declined by 25 percent and four plants around the country have closed. This reality strongly indicates that China is dumping tires into the U.S. domestic market, a clear violation of its World Trade Organization accession agreement. “The people in my District and in the State of Ohio need the opportunity to regroup against this flood of consumer tire imports, particularly during a recession,” Congressman Tim Ryan told the ITC panel. “It is crucial to restore fair competition for manufacturing jobs, and, thus, ensure they are ready to play a role in our economic recovery and long-term prosperity.” Section 421 of the Trade Act of 1974 was amended by the US-China Relations Act of 2000. Section 421 sets a lower burden of proof for harm to a sector of the economy as a result of product dumping and provides restrictions that only apply to imports from China. The ultimate decision on remedy remains with the President.
05.20.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Bill would prohibit group health plans from making post-retirement reductions in retiree benefits, put loan guarantee programs in place to assist employers in restoring lost benefits Washington, DC ­­– Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) co-sponsored the Emergency Retiree Health Benefits Protection Act of 2009 this week. The bill is an effort to protect the 18.5 million retirees in America who earned health care benefits in retirement during their working years. The bill would explicitly prohibit group health plans from making post-retirement reductions in retiree benefits and would require employers to restore benefits reduced after retirement. In order to assist employers who may suffer a financial hardship by restoring benefits, the bill would create a federal loan guarantee program that would provide the needed capital they would need. The bill will protect benefits employees are entitled to at the passage of the legislation, but will not restore benefits that employees are no longer legally entitled to. ”Right here at home we’ve seen retirees who worked their entire lives with a promise from their employer that they would be well taken care of in their golden years only to lose those benefits when they need them the most” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Congress must stop these unfair cuts. Retiree health care benefits must be protected by law.” In addition, the bill would require plans to adopt provisions barring post-retirement cuts in retiree health benefits; and would require employers to restore health benefits reduced after retirement. The bill would provide an exemption for employers who are unable to restore benefits because they would experience substantial business hardship. The Department of Labor would be charged with determining what companies would fit that category. According to a recent Kaiser Family Foundation (KFF) report, the Employer Health Benefits 2008 Survey, employer-provided health coverage for retirees has decreased significantly in the past decade. In 1998, 66 percent of companies with more than 200 employees who offered health benefits to employees were offering similar benefits to retirees. By 2007, only 33 percent of large firms offered coverage to retirees, and in 2008 the number dropped once again to 31 percent.
05.19.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Washington, DC – Representatives Betty Sutton (D-OH), Tim Ryan (D-OH), Russ Carnahan (D-MO) and John Boccieri (D-OH) spoke out strongly against the recent announcements by automakers GM and Chrysler that the companies will close plants in the U.S. while expanding operations overseas. GM’s restructuring plan calls for a 98 percent increase in the number of vehicles imported from Mexico, Japan and China, while Chrysler misrepresented its plans by announcing nationwide plant closings after briefing Members of Congress, United Auto Workers and others that the plants would remain open. After sending a letter to the CEOs of both corporations, Representatives Betty Sutton (D-OH) and Tim Ryan (D-OH) released the following joint statement: “The decision to lay off American workers while expanding opportunities abroad is extremely disturbing to those of us who have worked hard to save these vital manufacturing jobs. United Auto Workers have made extraordinary concessions to help these companies stay afloat. These are dedicated, hardworking Americans, not simply a bottom line. “Further, the recent decisions by GM and Chrysler to close thousands of dealerships across the country compound the burden on hardworking families and hurt our local communities. We believe their sudden, across-the-board decisions will hurt good franchises and needlessly cut jobs.” “When American taxpayer dollars are provided to help our domestic automakers, there is an obligation to our workers. We must hold these companies accountable to hold up their end of that bargain and protect our working families and communities.”
05.18.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Bill inspired by tragic loss of Lieutenant Colonel Dominic Baragona during accident involving Kuwaiti Company Washington, DC ­­–Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), was joined by his colleagues Congresswoman Betty Sutton (OH-13), Congresswoman Mary Jo Kilroy (OH-15), Congressman Dennis Kucinich (OH-10) and Congressman John Boccieri (OH-16) to introduce a bill that would give United States federal courts jurisdiction over all federal contracts with both domestic and foreign contractors. House Resolution 2349 has been introduced in response to the tragic loss of Lieutenant Colonel Dominic “Rocky” Baragona of Niles, Ohio, during an accident involving a Kuwaiti company. In 2003, Lieutenant Colonel Baragona was killed when his Humvee was struck by a supply truck driven by a Kuwaiti contractor, Kuwait Gulf & Link (KGL) Transport Company, in Iraq. KGL was under contract with the U.S. Army to deliver supplies into Iraq at the time its truck struck and killed Baragona. Rocky’s family filed suit against KGL in a Georgia federal court. When KGL refused to show, the court entered a $4.9 million default judgment against the corporation and the U.S. Army threatened to cancel its contract with them. The company then made a special appearance to have the judgment vacated under the premise that a U.S. court DOES NOT have jurisdiction over the company. Recently a judge vacated the earlier decision. “Kuwait Gulf and Link is responsible for the wrongful death of a decorated soldier,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “It is a miscarriage of justice to allow this company to hide behind a procedural technicality in the American Legal System. KGL’S attempt to shirk its responsibility to the Baragona family is not only an abuse, but also callously unjust.” “Contractors that receive our American tax dollars must be held accountable for their actions in U.S. Courts,” said Congresswoman Betty Sutton. “No family should ever experience what the Baragona family is having to endure. This lack of accountability should never happen again.” “Americans serving abroad, both military and civilian, should be protected under this nation’s law, especially when the projects are funded by the American taxpayer,” Congresswoman Mary Jo Kilroy said. “This tragic incident makes action necessary to ensure these loopholes do not prevent justice.” “The treatment the Baragona family has received from the Kuwaiti Gulf and Link Transport Company and the United States Government is deplorable,” said Congressman Dennis Kucinich. “Lieutenant Colonel Baragona served this country honorably, and this bill will serve Baragona by helping to ensure that a contractor cannot evade responsibility by hiding behind the law.” "I'm very disappointed that KGL would find loopholes in the law to deny Lieutenant Colonel Baragona's family the opportunity to be made whole," Congressman Boccieri said. "KGL wants American soldiers to protect them, but when the opportunity presents itself to protect the families of soldiers killed, they find loop holes in the law. This bill helps close those loopholes and makes companies like KGL accountable for the lives of our soldiers once again." The bill requires that all U.S. federal contracts include a clause establishing consent of the contractor (whether foreign or domestic) that U.S. federal courts will have jurisdiction over disputes arising out of the contracts, including suits involving serious bodily injury of a U.S. service member, government employee or U.S. citizen contractor. The clause would also have to be added to any contract modifications or new task orders under ID/IQ contracts after passage of the law. Senator Claire McCaskill has introduced a companion bill, S. 526 in the Senate.
05.13.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Bill would target nations that manipulate currency values to receive export and manufacturing advantage Washington, DC ­­–Senator Jim Bunning (KY), Senator Debbie Stabenow (MI), Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) and Congressman Tim Murphy (PA-18) reintroduced the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act today. The bipartisan coalition of lawmakers was joined by business leaders, industry groups and labor who have been harmed by the unfair disadvantages in manufacturing and export that currency misalignment can create. The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act would target exchange rate misalignment between the U.S. Dollar, Chinese Yuan and other major trading partners, in order to reduce the unnatural comparative advantages that command economies can use against market economies. “This is one of the most broad based coalitions I’ve ever had the pleasure to work with,” said Congressman Tim Ryan, “Democrats and Republicans, manufacturers and labor, and representatives from all over the country have come together on this common sense legislation which only asks countries to live up to the standards they agreed to when they joined the WTO.” “China continues to illegally subsidize products by a third of the costs by manipulating their currency to undercut American goods,” said Congressman Tim Murphy. “The time has come for Congress to stand up for American workers and not allow China to run roughshod over the American economy. With this legislation we will finally force China to stop cheating and level the playing field for America’s manufacturers,” “The global economy is facing its greatest challenge in modern times. Families in Michigan and across the country are having a hard time putting food on the table. I frequently hear from workers worried about finding good paying jobs and businesses that are unsure how long they will be able to keep their doors open,” said Senator Debbie Stabenow. “I’m fighting to level the playing field for them. This crisis is an opportunity to reflect on the mistakes of the past and update our trade laws to ensure that they are fair and transparent. Our laws must provide mechanisms to cite countries for manipulating their currency and also provide remedies, so U.S. workers are not put at a competitive disadvantage.“ “American workers and businesses have been competing with both hands tied behind their backs for too long, and it’s time to treat illegal currency intervention like the outrageous trade subsidy it is,” said Senator Jim Bunning. “Our legislation will put in place the tools and policies necessary to level the playing field with our trading partners and help protect American businesses from those countries who manipulate their currency in order to achieve an unfair trading advantage.” The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act has 39 cosponsors.
05.13.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} State of Ohio Department of Development to disburse latest ARRA funds Washington, DC ­­– Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) announced that counties within the 17th Congressional District would receive $22,197,175 in stimulus money as part of a grant to make houses more energy efficient. The funds are part of $266 million in revenue that will be administered by the State of Ohio and granted by the U.S. Department of Energy. Monies will be used to make necessary improvements to low income homes that will improve energy efficiency and lower energy costs. “This is a jobs bill,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “This money will create skilled jobs and provide opportunities to subcontractors specializing in weatherization/energy efficiency services. It puts people back to work in the short term and reduces energy costs and consumption in the long term.” The Mahoning Youngstown Community Action Partnership will be receiving $7,421,544 expected to help weatherize 885 homes The Trumbull County Action Program will receive $3,684,570 for expected work on 439 houses. Portage County Inc. will receive $2,346,242 for expected work on 280 houses The East Akron Neighborhood Development Corporation will receive $1,786,390 for work on 213 houses. Summit County Department of Community and Economic Development has been granted $6,958,429 for work on 829 houses. Number of homes is a projection provided by the Ohio Department of Development. The distribution of stimulus funds is expected to begin in June and will continue over the next three years. Funding is still contingent upon approval of the Home Weatherization Assistance Program plan by the U.S. Department of Energy.
05.04.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Employee Benefits Security Administration starts investigation after Congressman urges action Washington, DC ­­– Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) has successfully urged The Department of Labor’s Employee Benefits Security Administration (EBSA) to look into the Amweld pension fund and the retroactive cancellation of retiree health benefits last month. Retirees received no notification as to the cancellation of their health benefits while healthcare premiums were still being deducted from their pension checks. Ark II Manufacturing, LLC (“Ark II”), which currently holds Amweld assets, has since arranged for the retirees affected by the cancellation to retain their benefits. Those benefits could expire after June 30, 2009. “It is unconscionable that retirees who worked their entire lives and were promised a pension and healthcare in their golden years could be so callously treated,” said Congressman Ryan. “I applaud the EBSA for their investigation; it’s the right thing to do. Further, we need to work together to create a long term plan that will assure health benefits are honored after June 30th.” The Department of Labor confirmed their investigation into the Amweld matter in an April 30th letter to Congressman Ryan. The letter announces that the EBSA was, “aware of the concerns raised in your inquiry,” and that the EBSA’s regional office in Cincinnati is reviewing the matter. The letter set no timetable for completing their inquiry and the ESBA also reiterated its policy not to disclose substantive investigative information until public action is taken or the investigation is closed.
05.01.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Credit Cardholder’s Bill of Rights would protect cardholders from unfair practices Washington, DC ­­– Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) voted for the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights, legislation that targets unfair business practices and excessive fees that credit card companies routinely write into credit agreements. The bill includes tough new protections for consumers facing out of control interest rates, bans retroactive interest rate hikes on existing balances, and ends double-cycle billing and due date gimmicks. The bill would also increase the advance notice of impending rate hikes which would give cardholders the information they need to make decisions about their financial situation. “People are suffering in this economy. Every day they worry about their jobs, losing their home, losing their health insurance and mounting credit card bills that show up in the mailbox,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Providing relief to credit cardholders is a critical component in moving us towards economic recovery.” The bill will also prevent cardholders who pay on time from being unfairly penalized and stops companies from using misleading terms and damaging consumers’ credit ratings. In addition, it will empower cardholders to set limits on their credit, require card companies to fairly credit and allocate payments, and restrict the ability of card companies to issue credit to vulnerable minors.
04.09.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Money to Provide Emergency Food and Shelter from FEMA Washington, DC ­­– Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) announced that counties within the 17th Congressional District would receive $452,784 in stimulus money as part of a grant to provide emergency food and shelter to residents. The Emergency Food and Shelter National Board Program (EFSP) is a Federal program administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The EFSP is charged with augmenting local programs to provide food and shelter to hungry, homeless and people experiencing economic crisis. “Many families in our community are dealing with foreclosure on their homes as well as losing their jobs and their confidence. We need to make sure that our food banks and homeless shelters are prepared to deal with the increased strain that is being put on them by these tough economic times,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “In Washington we are taking a holistic approach to all the causes and symptoms of our current economic crisis. Shoring up our communities’ support system while tackling the deep regulatory failures of the previous administration makes sense.” The county allocations under the grant can be found below. Trumbull County: $91,918 Mahoning County: $96,838 Portage County: $63,680 Summit County: $200,348
04.03.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Budget to continue moving America towards new economic prosperity; cut deficit Washington, DC ­­– Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) voted in favor of a budget that makes key investments in economy development and puts America on a path towards renewed prosperity. The budget priorities passed in the bill would help overturn eight years of President Bush’s failed economic policies. “The budget that the House of Representatives passed today is yet another step we are taking to fix the failures that plagued our economic policy during the Bush years,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “We intend to cut the deficit by nearly two-thirds by 2010, cut taxes for middle class families by $1.5 trillion and make strategic investments in healthcare, clean energy and education.” This long term economic plan ushers in a new era of honesty in budgeting by fully accounting for known expenses like the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan that previous administrations left out in order to make the deficit look smaller. To bring change and restore integrity to Washington, this budget puts an unprecedented effort on rooting out waste, fraud and abuse in government spending. In their proposed budget Republicans offered nothing but the failed policies of the last eight years – the same policies that created this economic crisis. When President Obama came into office he inherited a record Republican deficit from the Bush Administration who had squandered a $5.6 trillion surplus. The national debt is double what it was when Bush took office, wages are flat and unemployment is skyrocketing. The House-passed economic plan takes the necessary steps to dig our economy out of the hole the Bush Administration left it in, cut the deficit, and stimulate broad growth for the good of all Americans.
04.01.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Over $8 million dollars for workers at Chrysler North Assembly, GM Lordstown, GM Moraine and twelve other supplier companies throughout Ohio (Washington, DC) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) announced today that the federal government has released a National Emergency Grant (NEG) to the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services in order to provide services to almost 2,500 of the over 6,000 workers that have been dislocated in the auto industry. The $8,342,254 grant will provide access to services that are not covered by trade assistance act grants such as counseling, case management, job search and job placement help. “There are so many families in our community that have been affected by the uncertainty facing the auto industry. Whether you’ve been employed at Lordstown for 20 years, or moved here from Janesville or other plant towns last year, I want you to know that I stand with you,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “While I know this money isn’t nearly enough, we are working hard in Washington to make sure that you have the assistance that you need during this crisis.”
03.27.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Funds included in Department of Energy Funding; Transportation Projects (Washington, DC) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) is proud to announce that Ohio’s 17th Congressional District counties have been awarded $49,813,000 in federal stimulus aid announced today. The funds are part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act passed by Congress earlier this year and will be used for energy efficiency programs as well as shovel-ready transportation projects. Ohio received $84,183,300 from Department of Energy stimulus grants this year and $774 million in transportation dollars. “The funds that were announced today will immediately start putting people back to work and invest in the critical infrastructure necessary to move our economy forward,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “I’m very thankful for the leadership of Governor Strickland and President Obama. By working together to direct this money to our area, they continue to demonstrate their commitment to ensuring that our communities are prepared to deal with our economic situation.” Seventeenth Congressional District Counties received $44,124,000 for shovel-ready transportation projects including $20,000,000 for the expansion of a rail line for V & M Star’s steel mill in Youngstown. These funds will help V & M expand their current operations at the facility which will create jobs. ODOT will invest $20 million for the relocation of rail lines near the current property These rail improvements will open more than 100 acres of land development with excellent rail, road, and utility access. Portage County will receive $1,124,000 to replace the Bradley Lake Bridge The City of Warren will receive $1,000,000 for the resurfacing of Mahoning Avenue as well as better signage and lighting improvements. The City of Akron will receive $7,500,000 to replace the Y Bridge as well as $8,000,000 to rehabilitate Main Street, $500,000 to design and build the State Street Bridge, $5,000,000 to refinish the pavement on Frank Boulevard and $1,000,000 for Summit County to fix the slope on a portion of I-271. “This funding will assist Ohio in its efforts to create jobs, attract new residents and rebuild our economy,” Rep. Sutton said. “Further, this funding enables us to create an energy efficient multi-modal transportation system of highways, railways, passenger rail, airports and other modes of public transportation. We want to put thousands of Ohioans back to work, and these projects help achieve that goal.” The 17th Congressional District received $5,689,100 from the Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant (EECBG) Program. The program was authorized in 2007 to reduce energy use and fossil fuel emissions as well as for improvements in energy efficiency. The City of Akron will receive $2,048,000 under the EECBG, The City of Warren will receive $196,000, Youngstown will be awarded $744,000 and Summit County will receive $2,698,800.
03.19.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Retirees Health Coverage Reinstated Retroactive to January 1st (Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan said today that he was pleased that Amweld International, LLC (“Amweld”), Ark II Manufacturing, LLC (“Ark II”) has arranged for the retirees affected by the recent cancellation of health care benefits to have access to identical coverage to what they had at the time of the Amweld sale. This follows a request from Congressman Ryan to Labor Secretary Hilda Solis urging the Secretary to conduct “an immediate investigation” of Amweld. Several affected Amweld retirees had contacted the Congressional office after being told their health coverage was cancelled retroactively even though their premiums continued to be deducted from their pension checks. “In an era when employees and retirees have become completely disenfranchised by corporate greed, I’m pleased that Amweld has decided to fulfill its obligations,” said Congressman Ryan. “I hope this serves as an example to other companies to take care of those who helped them get where they are, even in these difficult times. The bottom line is that these workers deserve adequate health care coverage, not just now, but after June 30th.” Gary Steinbeck, United Steelworkers of America Sub-District Director, thanked Congressman Tim Ryan and his staff for their hard work and diligence. He said that there are still unanswered questions the company needs to respond to in regards to health care benefits for Amweld retirees. “This has been a traumatic time for our members and their families," said Steinbeck. “We still don’t know who is responsible for the pension plan for our members who have worked decades in the Amweld plants. They need to know who their administrator is so they can file applications for their pensions.” In a press release issued today, Amweld said that money withheld from pension checks had not been spent, and that premiums deducted would either be returned to retirees or applied to health care premiums. Affected retirees will be notified of such over the next few days. The coverage offered by the company will be retroactive to January 1st and will continue until at least June 30, 2009. Added Ryan, “I will continue to fight for worker’s rights and benefits. I want to see that people get what they earned.”
03.17.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} (Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) co-sponsored legislation today--the Bailout Bonus Tax Bracket Act of 2009, introduced by Congressman Steve Israel—that would fully recover the $165 million dollars in taxpayer funds that American Insurance Group (AIG) intends to pay out to executives in the form of bonuses. “There is absolutely no way that AIG executives deserve to receive their bonuses while I’ve got constituents back in my district who are losing their jobs and can’t afford to put food on the table,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “They can talk all day about how that money is due to them because it’s in their contract; tell that to the Amweld retiree in Warren, Ohio who just had his healthcare benefits stripped and didn’t even receive so much as a written notification." Currently, the IRS withholds 25 percent from bonuses less than $1 million and 35 percent for bonuses more than $1 million dollars. Rep. Israel’s proposal, The Bailout Bonus Tax Bracket Act of 2009, would tax bonuses over $100,000 disbursed to employees of companies receiving TARP funds. Because bonuses are treated as taxable income, this bill applies a separate “Bonus Bailout” rate to the TARP bonus. Bonuses would be taxed beginning with those disbursed this year. For example, if an AIG employee’s taxable income is $750,000 which includes the $150,000 AIG bonus received this year, that employee will pay the top marginal rate on $500,000 of personal income, and then the “Bonus Bailout” tax rate of 100% on the $150,000 TARP bonus. “It boggles my mind how these executives can be so unaware of what the American people are going through. This new tax provision is a wakeup call that the days of arrogance and greed on Wall Street are coming to an end, and we will use any means necessary,” said Congressman Ryan.
03.17.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} (Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan today sent the following letter to the U.S. Department of Labor asking for an immediate investigation in the cancellation of health benefits by Amweld Building Products. Text of the letter follows: March 13, 2009 The Honorable Hilda Solis, Secretary United States Department of Labor 200 Constitution Ave., NW Washington, DC 20210 Dear Secretary Solis, I write today requesting an immediate investigation into the Amweld Building Products LLC pension fund. Retirees of the closed Amweld plants in Niles and Garrettsville, Ohio, are being told their health coverage was cancelled retroactively while their premiums continued to be deducted from their pension checks. It is my understanding that the previous plan administrator has been fired, yet we have learned that the new owners continue to withhold the health insurance monthly premiums. To our understanding, the old, new, and parent company all deny responsibility for the plan. Because of multiple bankruptcies and creditor sales, the company has passed through the hands of Amweld Building Products LLC, ARK II Manufacturing LLC, and Amweld International LLC. All three companies are apparently controlled by Patriarch Partners LLC. Despite repeated attempts by retirees, employees, and their union to contact all of the firms involved, it is not clear which of the companies could or should be currently liable for the plan’s administration. The cancellation is especially frustrating and troubling both because of its retroactivity and the negative impact that it could have on continued care. In addition to the enormous burdens that lack of health coverage can cause, the beneficiaries also face multiple deadlines for obtaining new coverage prior to the expiration of existing healthcare benefits. This is in addition to the simple outrage that, despite a retroactive cancellation dating to January 1, 2009, deductions were taken out of the March 2009 retiree pension checks. This makes a timely determination of responsibility for the plan crucial. Ascertaining the status of this pension fund and its continued viability is of critical concern for me and for my constituents. Thank you for your prompt attention to this important matter. I or a member of my staff can be reached at (330) 373-0074. I look forward to hearing from you. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress Cc: Virginia Smith – EBSA Office of Enforcement, Director
03.16.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} (Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) released the following statement on Forum Healthcare’s bankruptcy announcement today. “Today, we learned of Forum Health’s decision to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, which permits reorganization under the bankruptcy laws of the United States. I have reached out to the leaders of Forum Health and Humility of Mary Health Partners, Mayor Williams and Mayor O’Brien as well as union officials from both hospital systems,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “I remain hopeful that Forum Health will emerge stronger financially and I pledge my continuing commitment to aiding a system that delivers quality healthcare service to those in our community. The most important objective right now is that we all work collectively with management, labor and creditors to ensure that Forum Health is provided the foundation to continue as a sustainable hospital system. We cannot change the failed policies of the past that have compounded this particular predicament but I will work diligently with the Administration and Congress to shape federal policies that will have a positive impact on Forum Health, Humility of Mary Health Partners and the constituents we serve.”
03.12.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} (Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) applauded the President’s signature of the 2009 omnibus appropriations bill yesterday. The bill contained a provision that would help make birth control more affordable for millions of women who wish to obtain contraceptives at community health centers and college clinics. Congressman Ryan, a member of the powerful House Appropriations Committee, took an active role in ensuring that the provision was included in the bill. In 2005, Congress inadvertently cut off community health centers and college health centers from obtaining contraceptives at low cost when they passed the Deficit Reduction Act. “I am proud that we were able to fix this error, which caused lower income families and college students to pay up to 10 times more for basic contraception than other patients,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Access to low-cost contraception is a key component in our effort to reduce the number of abortions in this country.” Congressman Ryan worked in concert with Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Chairman of the Appropriations Committee David Obey, as well as Congressman Joseph Crowley, Republican Congressman Mark Kirk, Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky and Congressman Adam Schiff to pass the provision. “This bi-partisan effort is a step towards putting aside the old, stale arguments of the past,” said Congressman Ryan. “It is time we work towards common sense solutions that are in the best interests of our families and the health of women everywhere.”
03.10.2009	(Washington, D.C.) In case you missed it, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) issued a statement on the floor of the House of Representatives today in defense of America’s auto industry. Over the past week, various Republican Senators have begun suggesting that General Motors and other American car manufacturers should be forced into bankruptcy rather than receive any more federal aid. Almost 4% of America’s Gross Domestic Product is auto-related and nearly one out of every 10 jobs, 13 million, is auto-related according to the Auto Alliance. (The Auto Alliance) You can see the full statement by Congressman Ryan by clicking the link below which will redirect you to Congressman Ryan’s official YouTube Channel: Video of today's floor speech by Congressman Ryan
03.10.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Calls Sunday Morning Statements ‘Dangerous’ (Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) released the following statement regarding Senator Richard Shelby’s and Senator John McCain’s comments this Sunday suggesting that GM should go bankrupt. “Senator McCain’s and Senator Shelby’s statements about GM are not only dangerous to our economy but to our national security as well. The auto industry and its suppliers employ over two million Americans and they also produce our tanks, troop transport and military support vehicles,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “To suggest that we should allow GM to fail, after Senator McCain was all too willing to suspend his Presidential campaign and fly to Washington, D.C. last fall in order to bail out Wall Street and insurance executives, shows how out of touch he is when it comes to our manufacturing and industrial base. We are in an economic crisis and American families need our help."
03.06.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Funds included in the Edward Byrne Justice Assistance Grant Program (Washington, DC) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) is proud to announce that Ohio’s 17th Congressional District has been awarded $2,167,423 in the first stimulus program from the U.S. Department of Justice today. The funds will come as allocations in the Edward Byrne Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program. “We cannot allow our national economic crisis to affect our communities’ ability to keep our streets safe,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “This economic assistance to our cities and counties will ensure that our law enforcement community has the resources they need during these tough times.” The JAG Program, administered by the Office of Justice Programs’ Bureau of Justice Assistance, allows states and local governments to support a broad range of activities to prevent and control crime and improve the criminal justice system. JAG funds can be used for state and local initiatives, technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, supplies, contractual support, and information systems. Areas where the money can be spent include law enforcement programs; prosecution and court programs; prevention and education programs; corrections and community corrections programs; drug treatment programs; and planning, evaluation, and technology improvement programs. The eligible funds can be found below. Mahoning County: $13,508 Campbell City: $16,776 Struthers City: $11,112 Youngstown City: $593,931 Eligible Joint Allocation: $635,317 Portage County: $25,492 Kent City: $45,972 Eligible Joint Allocation: $71,464 Summit County: $38,128 Akron City: $916,170 Cuyahoga Falls: $46,843 Tallmadge City: $11,112 Springfield Township: $24,402 Eligible Joint Allocation: $1,036,655 Trumbull County: $18,737 Girard City: $30,067 Niles City: $61,659 Warren City: $264,938 Howland Township: $12,201 Liberty Township: $15,687 Warren Township: $20,698 Eligible Joint Allocation: $423,987 The county and individual cities and townships must come together with a plan for how the money will be spent before the money will be disbursed. The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Formula Program applications are due May 18, 2009. Full instructions for our community’s application process can be found at: https://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/recoveryJAG/JAGrecoveryLocal.pdf A sample Memorandum of Understanding for local grantees can be found at: https://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/recoveryJAG/JAGrecoveryMOU.pdf Additional information can be found at: https://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/recovery. In addition, the Department of Justice has set up an email address for communities that have questions about Byrne JAG or how to apply: JAGRecovery@usdoj.gov
03.06.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Helping Families Save Their Homes Act could keep hundreds of thousands of families from losing their home without spending one federal dollar and will help stabilize your home’s prices Washington, DC –Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) voted in favor of legislation today to provide relief to families who are facing foreclosure. The Helping Families Save Their Homes Act will put in place the first piece of a comprehensive Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan being worked on by Congress and President Obama. A record 5.4 million homeowners were either behind on payments or in foreclosure at the end of last year, according to an industry survey. “Every single American is affected by this foreclosure crisis, even if you aren’t behind in your payments the value of your home is being affected by your neighbors who are,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “So we are not just helping individual homeowners, we are stabilizing whole neighborhoods.” The Helping Families Save Their Homes Act gives bankruptcy judges the ability to modify existing mortgages for families who file for Chapter 13 bankruptcy as an incentive to spur lenders into voluntarily modifying loans. It gives lenders the confidence to modify loans by protecting them from some lawsuits. Further, it spurs mortgage refinancing by fixing the Federal Housing Administration’s Hope for Homeowners Program, reducing fees and offering new incentives for lenders. Chapter 13 bankruptcy filing is a last resort for many families who are unable to make ends meet in the midst of this recession. It is a strict and intrusive process that forces a family to open their finances up to the scrutiny and management of the courts for up to five years. More than 14 million homeowners owe more on their mortgage than their home is worth, and they cannot refinance. Many are facing foreclosure through no fault of their own.
03.04.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Funds include Community Block Grants, lead removal, homelessness prevention programs and public housing capital (Washington, DC) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) announced today that Ohio’s 17th Congressional District has been awarded $7,450,795 from U.S. Housing and Urban Development Department (HUD) in the federal Stimulus Bill that passed Congress in February. The funds will come in the form of Community Development Block Grants, HUD’s Homeless Prevention Program, the Healthy Homes Demonstration Grant Program and the Public Housing Capital Fund. “This is the start of a strong, coordinated effort on behalf of the federal government to turn our economy around,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “These funds will help our community ensure that we have safe quality housing for all our neighbors.” The Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program gives money to local governments to clean up neighborhoods, provide affordable housing and create economic growth in low or middle income neighborhoods. Local governments receiving CDBG grant money are as follows: Kent: $81,024 Summit County: $275,269 Warren: $353,768 Youngstown: $1,053,043 Cuyahoga Falls: $189,270 Akron: $1,824,341 The Healthy Homes Demonstration Grant Program cleans up legacy health hazards, such as lead contamination, that produce serious diseases and injuries in children, the elderly and in low income households. The program specifically addresses and remediates housing conditions that threaten health. Mahoning County: $875,000 The Public Housing Capital Fund provides funds for the management of our nation’s public housing. Funds can be used for modernization and development of public housing. The Portage Metropolitan Housing Authority received money from this program. Portage: $647,564 The Homelessness Prevention Fund provides financial assistance and services to prevent individuals and families from becoming homeless. The funds help pay for short-term or medium-term rental assistance and housing relocation and stabilization services, including mediation, credit counseling, security or utility deposits, utility payments, moving cost assistance, and case management. Warren: $541,184 Youngstown: $1,610,332
02.26.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Funds to be used for job creation and innovative health, education and energy programs throughout Northeast Ohio (Washington, DC) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) is proud to announce that he secured a total of $29.7 million in targeted federal investments for the 17th District in Fiscal Year 2009 appropriations bill. The funds are contained in the Omnibus spending bill which passed the House today and the Defense and Military Construction spending bills which were signed into law in September 2008. The Omnibus bill still requires Senate action. If the Senate passes amendments to the bill, any differences will have to be reconciled with the House version. The money will fund 29 separate health, education, transportation, water, and economic development programs that will help improve the quality of life for residents of the 17th District. “The projects that we are funding in this spending bill are part of a coordinated effort to bring better jobs, better healthcare and better education to our community,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “These federal dollars are an important lifeline for our community—helping to ensure our residents can find jobs, our children have a quality education and our community is well-positioned for future economic growth." The full list of Fiscal Year 2009 projects can be found below. Campbell Brownfield Revitalization Program ($700,000) Money will be used by the Mahoning River Corridor of Opportunity to replace a lift station, force main and sanitary sewer line on the site of the Campbell portion of the MRCO site. This will enable additional growth and development at the site which has already brought in 150 jobs since 2005. Streetsboro Trunk Sewer Improvements Project ($1,600,000) Given to the Portage County Board of Commissioners to improve and replace two sections of failing sanitary sewer line within the City of Streetsboro, the existing sewers in these areas are operating at a fraction of their full capacity and are known to surcharge during storm events. The County plans to replace approximately 14,000 linear feet of sewer line, 54 manholes, and 39 lateral reconnections in the northeast quadrant of the City and in the Industrial Park off of Mondial Parkway. Little Squaw Creek Interceptor Phase II ($675,000) Phase II of the Little Squaw Creek Interceptor Sewer Project involves the construction of a sewage pumping station and 1,700 linear feet of 10-inch sanitary sewer line along State Route 193 in southern Vienna Township. Phase II of this project is a vital link between Phase I to the south in Liberty Township, and future phases to the north in Vienna Township. The entire project is expected to be completed by 2020 and consists of five phases. Groundbreaking on Phase I will begin this year. Wick District-Smoky Hollow Development Infrastructure Improvements ($550,000) This complex urban initiative is a cornerstone project in Youngstown's revitalization. Wick District-Smoky Hollow is the first large-scale mixed-use project seen in the city in many decades. Its central location promotes collaboration, revitalization, and economic development. The WD-SH plan calls for the construction of more than 32,000 linear feet of new infrastructure on an approximately 80-acre development site. Alpha Micron Adaptive Liquid Crystal Display ($951,500) The Adaptive Liquid Crystal Windows project is creating a film which can be used for commercial and residential windows. The program would develop a manufacturable system that will create a liquid crystal-based film where its visible light transmission can be altered from 70% to 30% by application of a voltage from a solar cell. The technology could vastly improve the energy-efficiency of buildings and homes. University of Akron Fuel Cell for Clean Coal Power Plants ($1,427,250) Researchers at the University of Akron have been working several years to demonstrate the technical feasibility of building a 5-kilowatt scale coal fuel cell that can economically convert high sulfur coal into electricity with near zero negative environmental impact. U of A is currently in the process of building the coal fuel cell and has developed all the technology necessary. The 5kW fuel cell will be capable of heating/providing electricity to an entire house. As the performance of the fuel cell components is fine-tuned and optimized, funding must be allocated for the design and construction of a 250-kW pilot plant; a critical step to scale up the coal fuel cell technology to the megawatt scale for the nation's electric power supply. Youngstown State University Center for Efficiency in Sustainable Energy Systems ($1,903,000) Funds will establish the Center for Efficiency in Sustainable Energy Systems at Youngstown State University as an interdisciplinary industry-university center that integrates engineering design with energy systems analysis to improve the energy utilization of today's manufacturing industry and tomorrow's alternative energy industry. Ohio Northeast Health Systems Mobile School Based Clinic ($216,000) Appropriated funds will be used to develop a mobile school-based health clinic program throughout the city schools of Warren, Ohio. Emphasis will be placed on primary health preventive care programs including physical exams, immunizations, developmental assessments; acute health care; and preventive education. Humility of Mary Health Partners Teen Parent Program ($285,000) Money will help establish a Teen Parent Program whose goals include reducing repeat pregnancies, ensuring infants receive all immunizations, and reducing accidents by educating young mothers on major safety hazards to infants at each stage of development. The program will focus on increasing young mothers' parenting skills and awareness of the signs of physical illness in the infant and making these moms aware of health resources within the community. Children’s Rehabilitation Center ($124,000) Funds will go towards a demonstration project that will implement a multi-disciplinary team approach for providing support services necessary to improve family functioning, build on family strengths, improve family access to a wide range of therapeutic, educational and community resources for special needs children. Sojourner House Domestic Violence Services ($95,000) The Sojourner House is the only emergency protective shelter in Mahoning County. Its mission is to provide a comprehensive program of crisis intervention, education, advocacy and shelter for victims of domestic violence in Mahoning County. Sojourner's emergency shelter operates 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Additional services include crisis, judicial advocacy and case management, domestic violence education, a children’s program and community education. Power Up Partnership ($190,000) The PowerUp! Partnership is a research-based project to implement an experimental student response system (SRS) as a means to improve student engagement, learning, and success and as a means to enable teachers to improve the quality of their classroom learning environments. This collaborative initiative will demonstrate the effectiveness of SRS on improved learning. . Forum Health CT Scanner ($171,000) Funds will go towards the purchase of a 1.5 Tesla MRI Scanner will allow Forum Health's Trumbull Memorial Hospital to provide improved vascular imaging eight times faster, significantly reduced scan times, increase volumes by ability to schedule more patients, higher resolution of small intracranial structures and joint and enhanced spinal cord imaging. This upgrade will allow TMH to provide care to the most complex patients in our community and attract highly trained physicians. Youngstown Symphony Education Initiative ($95,000) Funds will be used to create a collaborative effort between the Youngstown Symphony and Youngstown City Schools to address the needs of at risk children both academically and socially by integrating music into elementary and middle school curricula. Magnet Healthcare Initiative, with Humility of Mary ($143,000) MAGNET, in partnership with Humility of Mary Health Partners, will establish “Lean healthcare services” using MAGNET's highly successful "Lean techniques". Lean is a continuous improvement program that uses proven tools and techniques to identify and eliminate waste in a process such as reducing the time required in admitting, providing improved patient coverage in a nursing unit or even in an operating room which increases success rates. Edwin Shaw Rehabilitation ($143,000) Funds will go towards the construction of a new building in downtown Akron to house Edwin Shaw Rehabilitation. Edwin Shaw's current building has structural issues that would make renovations for treatment areas and equipment, therapy area/systems and infrastructure improvement not feasible. YWCA Strengthening Workforce Development ($146,000) Funds will go towards workforce development, employment and training programs for the most disadvantaged citizens in our community. The YWCA intends to partner with local government, businesses and training entities to provide work readiness skills, job training and job coaching to maximize the ability of community participants to obtain employment and work towards self sufficiency. University of Akron STEM Education Initiative ($167,000) The University of Akron will work with local K-5 educators to introduce science, math and technology classroom activities that will lay a foundation for advanced science and math success in later grades. The program will help inspire and attract Ohio's youngest learners into STEM careers. The University of Akron will do this in partnership with representatives from current and emerging industry clusters in Northeast Ohio. Rainbow Babies and Children's Hospital community outreach programs in childhood diabetes and obesity ($200,000) This project will establish a new Center for Childhood Diabetes and Obesity at Rainbow Hospital. Kinsman House Interior Renovation ($150,000) Federal funding will go towards the second phase of renovations on the historic Kinsman House. Phase one, which is completed, restored the exterior of the building and did not receive Federal funding. Phase two, the interior restoration, would consist of complete restoration of the lower, first and second floors including plumbing, fire protection, HVAC, electrical, and finishing work. Youngstown-Warren Chamber Salute to Success ($246,643) Salute to Success is an entrepreneurship development initiative which has been created to address the problem that the Youngstown - Warren region has had challenges with developing business startups. The goal of Salute to Success is focused on providing residents of the Mahoning Valley support in growth and development of private business through an umbrella network comprising a broad range of organizations. Youngstown Shotspotter ($530,000) The City of Youngstown is embarking on a series of new safety initiatives in an effort to reduce crime in various neighborhoods. In addition to traditional crime fighting activities, the city is seeking to deploy equipment and technology that will allow for gunshot detection and video surveillance in areas that have statistical patterns of heightened criminal activity. UMIDOAP Project 180 ($120,000) Project 180 is designed to work with incarcerated women through targeted Pre-Release Initiatives and reduce the recidivism rates upon release from the institution. Project 180 will also assist women who are at any stage of contact within the criminal justice system to achieve stability, meet short and long term goals on their way to becoming full participants in community life. The program's goal is to improve the success rates for women's full reintegration into their communities and families. Ohio Police Athletic League Youth Sports ($300,000) Financing will go towards organizing, creating, and maintaining recreational and educational activities twelve months out of the year for the youth of our community and surrounding areas as an alternative to delinquent acts and/or criminal behavior. Funds will be used for equipment, insurance, site preparation, tutoring, transportation and medical services. Inmate Management System ($300,000) Earmark will go towards acquiring Jailview Management System technology allows Mahoning County to interface current County and City Courts systems, Courtview, to the Mahoning County Justice Center. The program supports single point data entry and up-to-the-minute inmate information. Jail data would be seamlessly derived through software licensing and integrated through a server. Martha Ave/I-76 Connector ($1,187,500) Funds would go towards the reconstruction of an existing east-west access road and extension of the road to access Martha Avenue and Massillon Road for economic development purposes. The new roadway would provide a major access road from Massillon Road to Martha Avenues, as well as access to and from I-76. Warren Greenway Bike Trail ($332,500) Funds will be used to construct approximately 3.9 miles of bike trail along an abandoned railroad right-of-way through Warren, OH. OCCHA Senior and Youth Center ($142,500) Federal investment will go to the conversion and renovation of a warehouse building for use as senior and youth center. Ravenna Arsenal Ohio National Guard Barracks ($2,000,000) The project will create housing for Soldiers when they are at the Ravenna Training and Logistics Site (RTLS) for training, filling a need critical to the mission of the Training Site. High Altitude Airship ($3,200,000) The High Altitude Airship program provides a high altitude (65,000 ft), low cost, maneuverable, multi-mission airborne platform in support of intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance and communication operations. The HAA will assist in affordable, unmanned, persistent airborne operations for a broad spectrum of US government users. Moreover, communications missions can be accomplished without deploying ground troops. Feeding Tube for Battlefield Trauma Patients ($1,600,000) This Feeding Tube has been clinically proven at the Brooke Army Medical Center to offer the most effective method for the successful post pyloric placement of a small bowel feeding tube for battlefield trauma patients. Successful completion of Phase II will allow the elimination of X-rays as a routine part of the feeding tube procedure, saving both the patient and clinician from significant levels of exposure to radiation and saving the U.S. healthcare market $2 billion. Alternative Energy Fuel Cell Power ($1,600,000) Remote military base deployments require electrical power for personnel support and command and control applications, and current diesel generators are not fuel sufficient. The market for this product is estimated at more than $200 million per year, and will result in the creation of hundreds of new, high-paying manufacturing jobs for Ohio. Liquid Crystal Laser Eye Protection ($1,600,000) The goal of the Liquid Crystal Eye Protection project is to implement digital liquid crystal technology on curved plastic shields, visors and goggles. The threats of laser energy systems are increasing, and a digital lens providing multiple functions of light and laser protection controlled by the user will combat a threat and enhance safety. Stryker Second Source/Next Generation Tire Development ($800,000) This project will provide funding to the Army for research development and testing qualification of second source tires for current Stryker vehicles as well as near term next generation tires for heavier load Stryker vehicles under development. Tires are a high use item for Stryker, and the Army is interested in a second source because capacity is strained. This program ensures that services have sufficient supply capacity in a wartime effort—a matter of national security. Corrosion Engineering Education Initiative ($800,000) Responding to industry and Department of Defense demands, The University of Akron is establishing the first comprehensive undergraduate education program in the field of corrosion engineering and science. This effort will create corrosion-specific, accredited engineering degrees at the associate and baccalaureate levels, as well as deliver industry-accredited workforce development certification courses. Helmets to Hardhats ($3,000,000) This project’s intent is to facilitate access by veterans, National Guardsmen, and reservists to opportunities for skilled employment in the construction industry. This would create a smooth, shift for transitioning active duty military and create careers for existing National Guardsmen and reservists. TacFab ($2,000,000) The Army uses its Rapid Manufacturing System (RMS) to provide deployed forces with critical spare parts to keep its weapons systems operating under the extreme wear and conditions of battle. The Tactical Metal Fabrication System, or TacFab, will provide mobile metal casting capability that will complement the RMS to cut parts production time by up to 90%.
02.24.2009	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Washington, D.C. – Senators Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Congressmen Tim Ryan (OH-17) and Brian Higgins (NY-27) have introduced legislation to give federal aid and support to cities experiencing major population loss. The bill would create a new, competitive program within the U.S. Department of Housing and Community Development (“HUD”) targeted towards cities and metropolitan areas experiencing large-scale property vacancy and abandonment due to long-term employment and population losses. The program would make available funds to demolish abandoned properties, find innovative uses for old structures, create green space and new city planning. “Cities like Youngstown in my district that want to pick themselves up and begin growing again need help getting started,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “These funds and these programs will help cities become leaner and give them a chance to be competitive again in our national and global marketplace.” "This proposal will target aid to the communities that are suffering the most at the hands of the current recession and empower them to rebuild,” said Senator Chuck Schumer (D-NY) “Many of our nation's once-thriving urban centers are today facing a crippling loss of population and exodus of jobs. This program can help reverse that trend and propel a comeback in these areas. We can't afford an economic recovery that leaves some cities behind." “Vacant homes, blight, and declining neighborhoods aren’t problems unique to Western New York, they are issues older communities are struggling with nationwide,” said Congressman Brian Higgins. “This bill would help the neediest regions in our country demolish vacant homes that breed crime and further disinvestment and develop new opportunities to breathe new life into these neighborhoods.” "This bill is about more than land banks-- it's about comprehensive economic development. It will help communities across Ohio that have been hit by the housing crisis and economic downturn,” said Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH). “Together, we can revitalize neighborhoods and bring new economic growth." The bill was written in consultation with prominent think tanks such as the Northeast-Midwest Institute and National Trust for Historic Preservation as well as local neighborhood associations in cities across the country. While the Community Regeneration, Sustainability and Innovation Act provides federal funds to cities and towns, it also creates new programs and councils that would offer technical assistance grants to cities through vacant property assistance providers and assigning staff through Intergovernmental Agreements.
02.18.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Citing the significant financial burden that a loss of health insurance benefits places on fixed-income retirees from the Delphi Corporation, Congressman Tim Ryan weighed in with a letter to the bankruptcy court on Monday. The letter to Judge Robert D. Drain, the presiding judge overseeing Delphi Corporation’s bankruptcy proceedings, implored the judge to consider the significant economic repercussions the loss of benefits causes the retirees. “The financial burden will be approximately $14,000 per retiree per year, an unacceptable sudden financial challenge,” Congressman Ryan states in his letter. “ I am outraged by the fact that Delphi Corporation admits in its document that canceling these health care benefits ‘will impose a real hardship on the former beneficiaries of these terminated programs,’ yet the corporation plans to continue proceedings to the detriment of many of my constituents. “ In the letter, Congressman Ryan also reminds Judge Drain of the significant effects that the loss of benefits will have to the community at large. The loss of health benefits will force retirees to spend a much larger share of their expendable income on health care rather than in other sectors of the economy which would create a domino effect throughout Northeast Ohio. “Many Delphi retirees reside in the 17th congressional district and in Northeastern Ohio generally, a region already facing many economic obstacles,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “To cut retirees’ health benefits would create a domino effect in which health care providers in our communities would also suffer from a lighter patient load, due to the lack of health care benefits. Not only would the health care industry be affected, but, Delphi Corporation retirees would have to spend their disposable income on essential medical treatment, funds that will no longer go to retail and service providers.” The full letter can be found below. February 13, 2009 United States Bankruptcy Court One Bowling Green New York, New York 10004 Attn: Judge Robert D. Drain Re: Delphi Corporation Case #05-44481 (RDD) Document #14705 to cancel OPEB (Health Insurance Benefits) for all Salaried Retirees Dear Judge Drain: I write to express my serious concern regarding Delphi Corporation’s February 4, 2009 filing of Document #14705. As U.S. Representative of the 17th District of Ohio, I object to Delphi’s request to cancel health benefits (OPEB) for over 15,000 salaried Delphi retirees, many of whom are my constituents. Delphi Corporation’s plan to cut the health benefits to salaried retirees creates a dilemma for the retirees and their families. Firstly, the expiration date of health benefits is April 1, 2009, which allows very limited time for retirees to consider how they will assume the massive financial burden of paying for health care. It is estimated that this cost will be approximately 10 times the annual premium for health care. The financial burden will be approximately $14,000 per retiree per year, an unacceptable sudden financial challenge. I am outraged by the fact that Delphi Corporation admits in its document that canceling these health care benefits “will impose a real hardship on the former beneficiaries of these terminated programs,” yet the corporation plans to continue proceedings to the detriment of many of my constituents. Not only will Delphi Corporation’s plan hurt the individual retirees and their families, it will also harm the communities in the 17th congressional district of Ohio. Many Delphi retirees reside in the 17th congressional district and in Northeastern Ohio generally, a region already facing many economic obstacles. To cut retirees’ health benefits would create a domino effect in which health care providers in our communities would also suffer from a lighter patient load, due to the lack of health care benefits. Not only would the health care industry be affected, but, Delphi Corporation retirees would have to spend their disposable income on essential medical treatment, funds that will no longer go to retail and service providers. I am sure that you understand that the cascading effect is inevitably disastrous, and, for that reason, I ask that you refrain from favoring the debtor’s plan. I also would ask you to consider the current economic and political situation of the country at large. The United States House of Representatives, along with President Obama and his Administration, are committed to ensuring the well-being of the domestic auto industry, of which Delphi Corporation is a part. With proper action by the federal government, Delphi Corporation’s dire predictions regarding industry collapse, could be mitigated. The debtors have decided to cancel the health benefits of its salaried retirees based on the absolute collapse of the auto industry, which the Congress and President are committed to prevent. Please consider the burden Delphi Corporation is placing upon its retirees, their families and their communities. Fourteen thousand dollars of unanticipated costs is burdensome for a retiree on a fixed income. Delphi Corporation’s plan is one that its retirees cannot accept and I ask for your objection to the cancellation of their health benefits. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress CC: Clerk of U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York CC: Kayalyn A. Marafioti Thomas J. Matz Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP Four Times Square New York, New York 10036 Attorneys for Delphi Corporation, et al. Debtors and Debtors-in-Possession
01.29.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) voted in support of the economic stimulus package today, an effort to create and save 3 to 4 million American jobs. The economic stimulus package was developed with the Obama Administration with the goal of creating jobs, making us more globally competitive and energy independent, transforming our economy for long-term growth and giving 95 percent of American workers an immediate tax cut. “This stimulus package accomplishes more in one bill than the last administration did for America’s middle class in the last eight years,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “The bill will invest in education, rebuild our nation’s roads, bridges and waterways, create private sector jobs, help workers who have been hurt by this economy and create a tax break for 95% of all Americans.” This jobs and economic recovery plan contains targeted efforts in: Transforming Our Economy With Clean, Efficient, American Energy and Innovation and Technology that will create more than 1 million jobs; Lowering Health Care Costs by funding aggressive adoption of health information technology, which will create hundreds of thousands of jobs, and Broadening Coverage by helping those who cannot afford health care in these tough times.; Modernizing Roads, Bridges, Transit and Waterways to create 1.5 million American jobs; Education for the 21st Century, including an increased Pell Grant for 268,804 students in Ohio; Tax Cuts of up to $1,000 to Make Work Pay for 4,179,000 individuals in Ohio and more than $20 billion for American businesses, large and small, to spur job creation; Saving the Jobs of Teachers and Police Officers. The Obama Administration has pledged that 75 percent of investments from this bill will get into the economy in the next 18 months.
01.27.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) announced today that the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, commonly known as the Economic Stimulus Bill, contains an estimated $100 million in direct aid to our local school districts over the next two years. The bill is expected to be voted on Wednesday afternoon in the full House of Representatives. The aid is meant to relieve (buffer) districts suffering from major shortfalls due to the recent economic crisis. "The economic crisis that currently grips our country seriously threatens school funding and the ability of our school districts to educate our children,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Today, I am announcing $100 million in relief to our local school districts so they can continue to prepare our kids for the good jobs of the future.” The aid will be given over a two-year period starting this year in FY 2009 and ending in FY 2010. The increases will help school districts with high percentages of low-income students under Title 1-A, special education needs under the Individuals With Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) grants and major investments in school construction and rehabilitation.
01.26.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) released the following response to those groups and companies opposing a Buy American provision in the Economic Stimulus bill which would require iron and steel used for infrastructure projects to be domestically manufactured. "It’s truly disturbing to see such opposition to the Buy American provision from large multinational companies and their lobbyists. These same companies stand to reap millions of dollars in tax breaks and government spending from the stimulus bill, yet they apparently don’t believe that American iron and steel workers should receive similar benefits from the bill,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “The whole point of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act is to get Americans working again. That these companies would oppose buying American iron and steel shows just how far removed they are from the country that gave them their start. I don’t care how many flags they wave in their commercials, or how many racing teams they sponsor; if they want to see America and American manufacturing succeed, then they should support Buy American.”
01.23.2009	Bill provides an estimated $13.5 billion in tax relief to parents and students Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), applauded the Ways and Means Committee for providing an estimated $13.5 billion in tax relief to families and students for tuition and textbooks. The tax credit of up to $2,500 can be used to defray the cost of tuition and related expenses paid during the taxable year. For the first time in American history, textbooks would be included in the higher education expenses that would be eligible for the tax credit. Congressman Ryan has been an outspoken advocate for lower textbook costs and was successful in passing an amendment to last year’s College Opportunity and Affordability Act to create a pilot program that would allow students to rent textbooks at a fraction of the cost of buying them. “The skyrocketing cost of textbooks is crippling our students’ ability to afford higher education,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “I am proud to say that this legislation will help expand access to affordable higher education, which is essential if all Americans are going to be able to compete in the global economy.” The American Opportunity Tax Credit would replace the Hope Tax Credit and the above-the-line tuition tax deduction for the next two years. This tax credit will be subject to a phase-out for taxpayers with adjusted gross income in excess of $80,000 ($160,000 for married couples filing jointly). This will provide an estimated $13.5 billion in tax relief. “President Barack Obama and Congress are on the same page,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “More than just improving our economy, we must help all Americans improve their lives, and that is exactly what this legislation will do.”
01.22.2009	Provision is included in American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan Washington, D.C. –Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), member of the powerful Appropriations Committee announced that the American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan, also known as the economic stimulus bill, contains a buy American provision that will ensure that our public roads and waterways will be built with American-made steel and iron. This banner piece of legislation, one of the cornerstones of Democratic plans for rebuilding the American economy is expected to help workers who have been hurt by the economic policies of the past and improve the business climate in the United States. “This bill is specifically written to benefit American workers, the middle class and create private sector jobs. We are going to spend this money in Youngstown, Warren, Akron and throughout the 17th District, not Beijing, Mumbai or Dubai.” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “The Buy American provision on steel and iron that I fought to include in this bill is more proof that change has come to Washington.” The bill contains $64 billion dollars to fix America’s roads, bridges and waterways. Nearly 800,000 jobs will be created through investment in transportation with monies for these needed projects to be made available in 180 days. Congressman Ryan helped organize support for the successful “Buy American” amendment to the bill in an effort to ensure that our recovery money doesn’t end up overseas. The amendment covers airports, bridges, canals, dams, dikes, pipelines, railroads, multi-line mass transit systems, roads, tunnels, harbors, and piers. “According to the United Steelworkers of America, 16 out of 29 blast furnaces in America are currently idle and monthly steel shipments are down 33% while new steel orders are down 58%,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “The Buy American provision in this bill will go a long way to putting steel workers back to work and help rebuild America’s steel industry.”
01.14.2009	Vows to continue fighting to protect 11 million children Washington, D.C. –Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) applauded the U.S. House for its passage of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (S-CHIP) which would cover 11 million children. The bill also clarifies that federal funds may not be used for children in the United States illegally. “The Passage of S-CHIP today and the promise of providing 11 million children with healthcare is proof that this Congress is prepared to tackle the tough economic realities that so many Americans face,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Millions of Americans are losing their jobs and healthcare, our children shouldn’t have to suffer because of a poor economic climate. Making sure that our children grow up healthy and prepared to compete in the global economy is the right thing to do.” The Bill includes provisions that: Ensure health care coverage for 11 million American children. The bill renews and improves the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), reauthorizing it for four and a half years – through FY 2013. The bill ensures that the 7 million children who currently participate in SCHIP continue to receive coverage. It also extends coverage to 4 million uninsured children, according to the nonpartisan CBO. Improve care and strengthens funding. The bill invests billions in new funding over five years in SCHIP in order to strengthen SCHIP’s financing; increase health care coverage for low-income, uninsured children; and improve the quality of health care children receive. Improve SCHIP benefits – ensuring dental coverage and mental health parity. Under the bill, quality dental coverage will now be provided to all children enrolled in SCHIP. The bill also ensures that states will offer mental health services on par with medical and surgical benefits covered under SCHIP.
01.08.2009	Bill is Introduced on Behalf of Retired Congressman Ralph Regula (Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan yesterday introduced a bill to preserve the memory of President McKinley by retaining the name of North America’s highest point, Mount McKinley. President McKinley, a Niles, Ohio native, was the 25th President of the United States. “Mount McKinley has borne the name of our 25th President for over 100 years,” said Congressman Ryan. “We must retain this national landmark’s name in order to honor the legacy of this great President and patriot.” Congresswoman Betty Sutton joined Congressman Ryan in introducing the bill, which was a priority of retiring Congressman Ralph Regula.
01.07.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) released the following statement on the continued conflict between Israelis and Palestinians. "Like many observers, I am very disappointed that Hamas chose to unilaterally end its six-month cease-fire agreement with Israel on December 19th. And while Israel has the right to defend itself against Hamas-fired missiles, all sides must acknowledge that the continued conflict in the Middle East between Israelis and Palestinians is a threat to world peace and security, making it harder for the United States to combat global terror. I strongly encourage Israel and the Palestinians to return to negotiations and bring this fight to an end."
01.06.2009	Looks towards a year of major economic legislation, fighting for the 17th District (Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH 17) was sworn into the 111th Congress this afternoon by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi at the United States Capitol. Congressman Ryan reiterated his commitment to working with President-elect Barack Obama and the House leadership to bring good jobs and investment back to the district. “I am honored to have been given the trust of my constituents to return to Washington D.C. and continue my work to bring good jobs and economic revival back to the 17th Congressional District,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “The 111th Congress could present us with a historic opportunity to bring good jobs back to our community. President-Elect Barack Obama and Speaker Nancy Pelosi are committed to doing what it takes to turn our economy around including large investments in infrastructure and a new green economy. I look forward to working with them to make sure that we are in a position to bring those new green energy manufacturing jobs back home.”
12.16.2008	Ryan Calls on the President to Release TARP Funds (Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement today deploring the failure of the U.S. Senate to approve loans for the U.S. auto industry: “The House of Representatives acted in a responsible way in approving the loans needed to keep our auto industry viable. It is difficult for me to understand the political games being played by a minority of Republican Senators who are holding hostage the auto industry and the entire manufacturing segment of our economy. “This is no time for politics, and certainly no time to lay the burden of a world economic collapse on the wage earners of the United Auto Workers. At a time when the jobs of millions of Americans are on the line, and the survival of thousands of our country’s small businesses are at stake, the U.S. Senate needs to do the right thing. A minority of Senate Republicans, hostile to unions, are the Grinch who stole the manufacturing rescue and have laid out a bleak holiday season for auto workers and their families. Meanwhile, their friends on Wall Street get a larger share of the American Dream. “Where Republicans in the Senate have failed, the President must step in and help restore the American auto industry and the faith of millions of Americans in the economy. I am asking that Secretary Paulson quickly provide the money so that the auto industry can restructure and survive.”
11.21.2008	Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan has joined the Mahoning Valley Organizing Collaborative, along with elected and community leaders in sending a letter to Lt. Governor Lee Fisher asking him to meet with them to discuss the foreclosure crisis facing the area. The letter was signed by fourteen community leaders and asks the Lt. Governor for a meeting to discuss the allocations contained in the state’s Neighborhood Stabilization Program. It is expected that this money will be released in early 2009. The letter follows. October 31, 2008 Lieutenant Governor Lee Fisher Riffe Center, 30th Floor 77 South High Street Columbus, OH 43215-6108 Dear Lieutenant Governor Lee Fisher, On behalf of area legislators, community leaders, and key stakeholders in Mahoning Valley, we would like to request a meeting with you to discuss the foreclosure crisis facing our metropolitan area. Specifically, we would like to discuss the allocation of the State of Ohio's $116.8 million Neighborhood Stabilization Program to our community and the ways in which we can work together to address this crisis which has disproportionately affected our region. As you know, the City of Youngstown has the highest local foreclosure rate in the State of Ohio, I4.7 percent, and one of the highest percentages of homes financed by subprime loans at almost 55 percent. The city's 8,405 vacant units and over 20,000 vacant lots translates into more than 1 in 5 structures being vacant within the City of Youngstown and one of the highest per capita vacant property rates in the United States. The City of Youngstown, a community of 73,818, received an initial $2.7 million allocation from the Neighborhood Stabilization Program. The City of Warren, a community of 44,270, has received no initial direct allocation from the Neighborhood Stabilization Program. Warren is also facing significant challenges for a community of its size. Without resources and intervention the foreclosure crisis will add to the 3,000 plus vacant structures within the City of Warren. While the Cities of Youngstown and Warren are facing significant challenges, progress is being made to give both communities back their future. The City of Youngstown has adopted, Youngstown2010, a citywide vision to right size the city that has received national recognition. This plan seeks to resize the city to make it a livable smaller city. The City of Warren is currently undertaking a comprehensive planning process to develop a blueprint for its future. Other progress includes the development of the Mahoning Valley Organizing Collaborative which is building grassroots capacity in urban neighborhoods throughout Youngstown and Warren. A high capacity multifaceted Neighborhood Development Corporation is also being developed to provide professional community development that has been lacking in the Mahoning Valley for a long time. The purpose of the Neighborhood Stabilization Program is to provide resources to areas of the State of Ohio with the greatest need as noted in Department of Housing and Urban Development Docket No. FR-5255-N-01 Attachment A. We, as leaders of the Mahoning Valley, believe that the facts and statistics make it very clear the Mahoning Valley has been deeply and significantly impacted by the foreclosure crisis. We are requesting a meeting with the Lieutenant Governor and the staff of the Ohio Department of Development Office of Housing and Community Partnerships to discuss the remaining allocation of the state's Neighborhood Stabilization Program funding. We are requesting a meeting in November of this year. Please respond to Ian Beniston at 330-743-1196 of the Mahoning Valley Organizing Collaborative to confirm a date and time. We have included some maps and background about the Valley for your review. Thank you, Mayor Jay Williams Mayor Michael O’Brien City of Youngstown City of Warren Representative Robert Hagan Tim Ryan Ohio House of Representatives Member of Congress (OH17) Annie Gillam Andy Barkley Youngstown City Council Warren City Council Father Ed Noga Reverend Michael Harrison Saint Patrick’s Church Union Baptist Church Ms. Charlene Allen, Executive Director James London, President Alliance Community Outreach Program Idora Neighborhood Association Patti Dougan, President Nola Yovich Seventh Ward Citizen Coalition Perkins Neighborhood Assoc. Kirk Noden, Executive Director Joel Ratner, President Mahoning Valley Organizing Committee Raymond John Wean Foundation
11.13.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan today asked House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer “to provide additional financial assistance for the U.S. auto industry.” This comes in response to a steep slowdown in auto sales, pending layoffs at Lordstown and other auto plants around the nation, and the credit limits faced by suppliers and dealers. The text of the letter follows: November 7, 2008 The Honorable Nancy Pelosi The Honorable Steny Hoyer Speaker of the House of Representatives Maj. Leader, House of Representatives H-232, United States Capitol H-107, United States Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Madame Speaker and Democratic Leader Hoyer: Thank you for your continued work to ensure stability and stimulate growth in our domestic auto industry. As you know, approximately 5 million jobs and the American economy at large depend on the U.S. auto industry. Unfortunately, the U.S. auto industry has been especially hard hit by the credit crisis. Carmakers can’t get credit to complete their restructurings and put new advanced technology vehicles into production. Customers can’t get credit for new cars and other purchases, and consumer confidence has fallen to an all-time low. Suppliers are losing business and can’t get credit to keep them afloat until the industry recovers. Dealers can’t get credit to finance inventory and other routine business needs. On Friday, General Motors, which employs approximately 5,400 employees at the GM Lordstown Assembly plant and GM Lordstown Metal Fabricating plant in my congressional district and indirectly supports thousands more employees in the region, reported a net loss of $2.54 billion for the third quarter. As a consequence, the automaker has announced that 1,060 workers at those plants will be laid off. Put simply, without immediate government intervention, GM’s cash position will not be enough to keep the company going through next year. The collapse of GM or other major automakers would result in a devastating economic and competitive scenario for the nation. As we move forward with an economic stimulus package when Congress returns in November, I respectfully urge you to provide additional financial assistance for the U.S. auto industry. Such assistance will allow GM to continue its development of advanced fuel efficient cars and ensure that advanced vehicle batteries and battery systems are developed and produced in the United States. I look forward to continuing to work with you to ensure the long term health of the American automotive sector. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
11.13.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Ryan announced today that the passage of the Amtrak Reauthorization bill as part of the Federal Railroad Safety Improvement Act brings high-speed rail service one step closer to reality in the Mahoning Valley. The bill includes authorization to conduct a study of the feasibility of extending the already authorized Keystone Corridor between Philadelphia and Pittsburgh west to Cleveland. The study is required by the Federal Railroad Administration and is the first step toward establishing high-speed rail service in the Mahoning Valley. The study would be conducted by the Ohio Rail Development Commission (ORDC), which has already completed most of the work. Completion of the study is necessary before ORDC can undertake a project environmental impact statement, the next step in the process, which would recommend a specific route through the Valley. Engineering work could then begin after which construction of the line would commence. “High-speed rail service in the Mahoning Valley is no longer just a dream—we are moving closer to making this a reality,” said Congressman Ryan. “The economic benefits will help revitalize our economy, improve mobility of our people and make our area an essential link between Pittsburgh and Cleveland.” In addition to the local corridor, the bill also calls for a feasibility analysis regarding the expansion of the Keystone Corridor to Cleveland, Ohio and a high-speed rail line from Memphis, TN to Houston and San Antonio, TX.
09.29.2008	There’s Too Much at Risk, says Ryan (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Tim Ryan voted today in favor of the emergency economic recovery package, which was defeated 228 - 205. While Ryan had deep reservations with some the provisions of the government bailout, his concerns of a serious credit market freeze outweighed those hesitations. Ryan fears constituents in the 17th District would not be able to secure basic financial instruments like home and auto loans. Citizens seeking college student loans or home equity loans may also find it more difficult than in the past. Whether an individual works in the public or the private sector, are working or retired, the collapse of the financial markets will have a significant negative impact on 401k and other retirement plans, most of which are invested in the stock market. Ryan also believes that further problems on Wall Street could cause businesses in northeast Ohio to suffer from a tighter credit market—jeopardizing the area’s fragile economic recovery. Businesses across the country depend upon lines of credit to purchase inventory, pay their employees and stabilize their income over expenses during regular business cycles. Additionally, company expansions and new product development will come to a standstill as a result of the tighter restrictions on lending, leading to a trickle-down effect on suppliers and service providers like the construction industry. The original plan initially introduced by the President was rejected by Democrats, but in subsequent negotiations Democrats improved the plan to protect taxpayers by putting them in a position to share in the profits and recover assets. Democrats also required the next President to deliver a plan that would ensure taxpayers are repaid in full if, in five years, the recovery package does not earn back the money that taxpayers put into it. “After numerous conversations with retirees concerned about their pensions, local business people concerned about their credit lines drying up, and local labor leaders concerned about a lack of work if credit markets freeze-up, I reluctantly supported today’s rescue package. Supporting this package was necessary if the US is going to avert an economic recession and further hardship for the American public.”
09.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congressmen Tim Ryan (OH-17) and Charlie Wilson (OH-6) announced today that the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) is awarding $2,708,205 to the City of Youngstown. This money was appropriated by Congress in the major housing bill it passed in July. Seventy-five percent of the money can be used for demolition. Twenty-five percent can be used to purchase and redevelop abandoned and foreclosed homes that will be used to house families whose incomes do not exceed 50% of area median income. “This money will provide our struggling cities with the opportunity to demolish abandoned properties and take possession of homes that can be rehabilitated, said Congressman Ryan. “We need to take care of our neighborhoods and keep our cities moving forward.” “I’m proud that this money will help clean up blighted homes,” Wilson said. “If foreclosed properties are so far gone that they can’t be rehabilitated, neighborhoods need to have the ability to get rid of the problem. I fought hard for the demolition option as the legislation was being crafted in the Financial Services Committee. I’m pleased the money is reaching Ohio neighborhoods in need.” The City of Akron is receiving $8,583,491.53 and other parts of Summit County will receive $3,767,143.53. The State of Ohio also is receiveing $116,859,222 to distribute to counties and cities at its discretion.
09.26.2008	Bill Passes House and Senate and goes to the President’s Desk (Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan—the lead Democratic cosponsor of the Prenatally and Postnatally Diagnosed Conditions Awareness Act—praised Congressional passage of the bill’s Senate companion yesterday. The bill provides resources to women whose born or unborn child receives a diagnosis for Down Syndrome, Spina Bifida, Cystic Fibrosis, or other prenatally and postnatally diagnosed conditions. The bill will make sure that women receive up-to-date scientific information about life expectancy, intellectual and functional development, prenatal and postnatal treatment options, and referrals to supportive services such as hotlines, websites, information clearinghouses, and parent support networks and programs. “As much as 90% of pregnancies with a diagnosis of Down Syndrome are aborted. This should not and need not be the case. We will bring every resource to bear to ensure that women are able to raise a child with the best information and the best services available,” said Congressman Ryan. "A pregnant woman should never feel that her options are limited by a lack of public support for the types of social services that could help her, her family and her baby.” Other provisions of the bill would include identifying the number of cases recognized through prenatal testing, and requires written consent for data collection and any information that could identify the patient. The bill also calls on the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop guidelines for health care providers involved in prenatal testing on how to deliver the information to their patients and protect their confidentiality. “This is common ground legislation that will benefit both women and children. We must do more to get women the support they need—and this bill is crucial step in that direction,” added Congressman Ryan.
09.25.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congress passed a comprehensive spending bill today that will secure $16.6 million in defense projects for the 17th Congressional District, including $2 million to build National Guard barracks at the Ravenna Arsenal, and $1.6 million for downtown Youngstown’s Syncro Medical for the further development of a feeding tube used to treat burn patients by the U.S. Army. The bipartisan bill, H.R. 2638 – Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act, passed the House of Representatives by a 370 to 58 vote, and included FY2009 funding for the Defense Department, Department of Homeland Security, Military Construction and the Veterans’ Administration. The bill also funded a continuation of most domestic government agencies at 2008 levels until March 6, 2009 including $7.5 billion to support $25 billion in loans to help American automakers to update their factories in order to build more fuel efficient cars and trucks, a $1 billion increase in WIC funding to provide mothers and their children with proper nutrition, a $2.5 billion increase to help families pay rising home energy bills, helping an additional 2 million households. The bill allows the offshore drilling ban to expire on September 30th and provides an additional $2.5 billion for Pell Grants for higher education. “The bill we passed today makes significant investments in the 17th District, promotes cutting edge research and development that will be done right here in northeastern Ohio, and helps preserve the readiness of our military,” said Congressman Ryan. “The benefits of these investments will go to our universities, our business community and our workers as we continue to revitalize our area and build a robust economy.” The bill also makes critical investments into the health, well-being and readiness of our armed forces around the world. $750 million is set aside to ensure that the National Guard and Reserve soldiers have all of the tools they need after years of irresponsible shortfalls. Another $25.8 billion is allocated to provide our troops with continuing medical care, including $300 million for traumatic brain injury and psychological health. “The Democratic Congress will continue to ensure that returning soldiers and sailors receive top-of-the-line health care and the educational opportunities that they deserve for the service provided our nation,” Ryan added. The full list of funded projects includes: · Ravenna Arsenal National Guard Barracks ($2 million) The project will create housing for Soldiers when they are at the Ravenna Training and Logistics Site (RTLS) for training, filling a need critical to the mission of the Training Site. · High Altitude Airship ($3.2 million) The High Altitude Airship program is to provide a high altitude (65,000 ft), low cost, maneuverable, multi-mission airborne platform in support of intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance and communication operations. The HAA will assist in affordable, unmanned, persistent airborne operations for a broad spectrum of US government users. Moreover, communications missions can be accomplished without deploying ground troops. · Feeding Tube for Battlefield Trauma Patients ($1.6 million) This Feeding Tube has been clinically proven at the Brooke Army Medical Center to offer the most effective method for the successful post pyloric placement of a small bowel feeding tube for battlefield trauma patients. Successful completion of Phase II will allow the elimination of X-rays as a routine part of the feeding tube procedure, saving both the patient and clinician from significant levels of exposure to radiation and saving the U.S. healthcare market $2 billion. · Alternative Energy Fuel Cell Power ($1.6 million) Remote military base deployments require electrical power for personnel support and command and control applications, and current diesel generators are not fuel sufficient. The market for this product is estimated at more than $200 million per year, and will result in the creation of hundreds of new, high-paying manufacturing jobs for Ohio. · Liquid Crystal Laser Eye Protection ($1.6 million) The goal of the Liquid Crystal Eye Protection project is to implement digital liquid crystal technology on curved plastic shields, visors and goggles. The threats of laser energy systems are increasing, and a digital lens providing multiple functions of light and laser protection controlled by the user will combat a threat and enhance safety. · Stryker Second Source/Next Generation Tire Development ($800,000) This project will provide funding to the Army for research development and testing qualification of second source tires for current Stryker vehicles as well as near term next generation tires for heavier load Stryker vehicles under development. Tires are a high use item for Stryker, and the Army is interested in a second source because capacity is strained. This program ensures that services have sufficient supply capacity in a wartime effort—a matter of national security. · Corrosion Engineering Education Initiative ($800,000) Responding to industry and Department of Defense demands, The University of Akron is establishing the first comprehensive undergraduate education program in the field of corrosion engineering and science. This effort will create corrosion-specific, accredited engineering degrees at the associate and baccalaureate levels, as well as deliver industry-accredited workforce development certification courses. · Helmets to Hardhats ($3 million) This project’s intent is to facilitate access by veterans, National Guardsmen, and reservists to opportunities for skilled employment in the construction industry. This would create a smooth, shift for transitioning active duty military and create careers for existing National Guardsmen and reservists. · Tac Fab ($2 million) The Army uses its Rapid Manufacturing System (RMS) to provide deployed forces with critical spare parts to keep its weapons systems operating under the extreme wear and conditions of battle. The Tactical Metal Fabrication System, or TacFab, will provide mobile metal casting capability that will complement the RMS to cut parts production time by up to 90%. Congressman Ryan also assisted other members of Congress in securing funding for the following projects: High Power, Ultra-Lightweight, Zinc-Air Battery ($2.5 million) This funding will allow for the continued development of a high-rate capability air electrode for a zinc air battery system. Improved Collapsible Urethane-Fuel Storage Tanks (ICU-FST) ($1.6 million) A wide range of critical military, national security and natural disaster response activities depend on collapsible storage tanks for fuel and water distribution. The ICU-FST will benefit the U.S. Department of Homeland Security in meeting immediate needs of rescue operations and residents in disaster areas. Power Dense Transmissions ($1.28 million) This project will develop an advanced gear material system for helicopter power transmissions. Combat Skills Simulation Systems, Ohio Army National Guard ($3.72 million) These training simulators will enable the Ohio Army National Guard to conduct collective training in the types of missions typically conducted by Ohio National Guard units when deployed in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom. · Defense Metals Technology Center ($3 million) The Defense Metals Technology Center functions as an industrial-based consortium to serve the needs of the Department of Defense by facilitating research and development of innovative technology and products for the Defense Materials and Manufacturing Industry. DMTC will serve as an effective third party agent to link academia, national labs, industrial interests, and the Department of Defense to a common goal: maintaining a globally competitive industrial base to support the cost effective manufacture of military hardware.
09.22.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan released the following statement today in response to the Bush Administration’s request for a $700 billion bailout for the financial industry: "I will not vote for a blank check to bailout Wall Street bankers. Any legislation must have vastly increased oversight and regulation of the financial services industry, prohibitions on excessive executive compensation, relief for homeowners facing foreclosure, and prohibitions on taxpayer money going to foreign banks. “More importantly, every American should be outraged that the Bush Administration and the Republicans in Congress continually block small increases for education funding, expanded health care and increased middle-class tax cuts on the grounds that we can’t afford them, yet when it’s time to bailout the big money people on Wall Street, there’s no time to spare and no check too large. If only we could get this kind of timely attention for gas prices, consumer protections and other initiatives that benefit average Americans.
09.18.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan today joined a majority of his colleagues in the House of Representatives and approved bipartisan legislation that will strengthen environmental educational experiences for America’s school children both in and out of the classroom. The bill, No Child Left Inside Act, improves existing environmental education programs by providing states with resources to train teachers, develop research based programs and create environmental literacy plans to ensure that students understand the role of the environment as a natural resource. “We need to make sure that in addition to math and science education, environmental education takes center stage in education. We need our students to be more physically active, and this bill will do that,” said Congressman Ryan. “Environmental education will lead our students to want to study science, and being outdoors will raise their awareness of the environment and the need to preserve it.” This bill will enable schools and states to enhance and expand environmental education programs by extending the National Environmental Education Act of 1990, which provides funding for teacher training and support programs. States will be able to develop and implement academic standards for environmental education, and states and schools will be able to use outdoor environmental activities as part of their academic curricula. This bill also creates a competitive grant program to help non-profits, state and local education agencies, and institutions of higher education create and strengthen state environmental literacy plans. The No Child Left Inside Act is supported by a broad coalition of environmental and education organizations including the National Wildlife Association and the YMCA of the USA. “Getting children outdoors, especially in an educational setting, is a win-win situation for schools, students and families. This is ‘out of the box’ education, and I support it whole-heartedly.”
09.17.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan late Tuesday evening voted in favor of the Comprehensive American Energy Security and Consumer Protection Act, an energy bill drafted by House Democrats that would help end our dependence on foreign oil, lead to reduced gas and energy costs and launch a renewable energy future that will provide new American jobs. The bill also repeals legislation passed four years ago and closes a significant tax loophole that America’s largest oil companies used to their advantage. The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 236-189. HR 6578 also releases from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve nearly 10 percent of the oil from the government’s stockpile and replaces it later with heavier, cheaper crude oil. In the past, this has reduced energy prices by one-third. “Finally, the American people will know that it was this Democratic-led Congress that fought for and passed a comprehensive energy policy that included offshore drilling,” said Congressman Ryan. “This bill will reduce our dependency on foreign oil and bring down gas and energy prices as well as provide incentives for new types of hybrid cars, energy efficient homes, buildings, and appliances.” In seeking a workable compromise on drilling, the bill opens up over 320 million acres of land on both the Atlantic and Pacific coasts where drilling is currently not permitted and gives states the right to decide the issue. This provision expands oil available by at least 2 billion barrels of oil – nearly four years worth of the oil produced offshore in America and enough to power 1 million cars for 60 years. It also makes available enough natural gas to heat six million homes for over 42 years. This is a real compromise effort on a comprehensive energy solution. As with all compromises, it requires both sides to give. In return for a responsible opening of more offshore areas for drilling, our bill requires oil companies to pay their fair share so we can make a historic commitment to a renewable energy future and jobs. The bill puts us on the path toward energy independence, protects consumers, strengthens our national security, and helps reduce global warming – bipartisan goals and key ingredients to a comprehensive national strategy. The Senate is working on a comparable compromise, and if Republicans in Congress and the White House will work in good faith, we can enact real solutions on the number-one issue facing America’s families and businesses. “We've had an oil crisis in this country for 35 years and we can’t wait ten more. This bill is comprehensive and balanced, and the American people will benefit from lower energy costs as we put our nation on a sustainable path to energy independence.”
08.01.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan today voted in favor of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs bill. Congressman Ryan worked for the inclusion of $2 million to build barracks for the Ohio National Guard at the Ravenna Arsenal and to increase medical benefits for all military veterans. The bill increases the size of the Army and Marine Corps, allows for increased enrollments of Priority 8 veterans (veterans whose injuries are not service-related), provides veterans with advanced prosthetics and contains increases in mental health and substance abuse treatments. “This is a great bill that I’m proud to support. Among other things, it provides enhanced medical benefits for veterans and housing assistance for a growing number of homeless veterans,” said Congressman Ryan "Also, the $2 million for the construction of barracks at the Ravenna Arsenal will be one more step in transforming that facility into a first-rate training facility and an economic engine for Portage county and northeastern Ohio.” The Democratic-led 110th Congress passed three bills in 2007 that increased medical care to veterans by $11.8 billion, and recently passed a bill expanding the GI bill to provide soldiers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan a chance to further their education. In addition, the bill includes money for more claims processors and facility improvements and $5 billion for on-going maintenance and renovations of existing facilities “I will continue to support bills that expand benefits to those who have sacrificed to protect this nation. The education, health care and family benefits that our veterans deserve will always get my vote.”
07.31.2008	Bipartisan Bill Includes Ryan Amendment to Lower Cost of College Textbooks (WASHINGTON, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan today joined an overwhelming majority of House members in giving approval to legislation that would address the high cost of a college education, including an amendment introduced by Congressman Ryan and cosponsored by Congressman Jason Altmire (D-PA) that would help make college textbooks more affordable for college students. The amendment would create a nationwide pilot program to help expand the availability of college textbook rental programs by awarding competitive grants to colleges and universities that start rental programs on their campuses. Other provisions of the College Opportunity and Affordability Act will allow students to receive year-round Pell Grant scholarships, strengthen college readiness and support programs for minority and low-income students, increase college aid and support programs for veterans and military families, and strengthen our nation’s workforce and economic competitiveness by boosting science, technology, and foreign language educational opportunities. This bill is a comprehensive reauthorization of the Higher Education Act of 1965, the primary federal law aimed at expanding college access for low- and middle-income students. The Senate is expected to pass the legislation this week, after which it will be sent to the President for his signature. “Helping more of our citizens attend college is the surest way to grow our economy, create a dynamic workforce and secure America’s future. Thanks to the passage of this bill, our students graduating high school and our veterans returning from service will now face fewer costs and hassles in trying to earn a college degree,” Congressman Ryan said. The Ryan-Altmire amendment will expand efforts already underway at a number of colleges and universities around the country, including Bowling Green State University’s bookstore, whose textbook program saved 151 students $11,000 in the cost of new books. Other programs include a rental program at San Mateo County Community College in California that saved participants $707,483 over the course of two and half years and Appalachia State University in North Carolina, which saved students $3,133,200 in one semester. “Textbooks are an often overlooked part of rising tuition costs; yet for many students, the skyrocketing costs of textbooks alone can mean the difference between attending college or not. My amendment will help make books more affordable for our students by giving them the option to rent their textbooks rather than purchasing them. In this economy, a quality education is a necessity, and we need to make it as affordable as possible for American families and students.”
07.24.2008	Bill includes $4 billion in emergency assistance that can be used to demolish vacant properties (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Tim Ryan today voted to support the American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act (H.R. 3221), the most comprehensive response yet to the American mortgage crisis. This bill will help families facing foreclosure keep their homes and spur the economic recovery of communities harmed by empty homes caught up in the foreclosure process. One of the bill's provisions would provide $4 billion in emergency assistance to communities hardest hit by the foreclosure and subprime crisis. These communities can purchase and rehabilitate foreclosed homes to stabilize neighborhoods and stem the significant losses in home values. Communities will also be allowed to use the funds to demolish vacant and abandoned properties “With the primary investment of most families being their home, putting an end to this mortgage crisis is vital to the economy,” Congressman Ryan said. “I applaud my colleagues in the House for giving families in crisis the ability to refinance, while also helping to strengthen neighborhoods already suffering from recent foreclosures.” Other provisions of the bill include creating a strong, independent regulator with the authority to set strong capital standards over institutions like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The bill also takes steps to prevent future abusive lending by establishing a nationwide loan originator licensing and registration system to set minimum standards for all residential mortgage brokers and lenders. “Ensuring the soundness of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae is extremely important in order to make certain affordable housing remains available. The increased oversight and regulation will boost confidence in the housing market and spur our economy past this mortgage crisis.”
06.27.2008	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) voted today on three pieces of legislation that will help make America become more energy independent and help provide relief to Americans struggling with high gas prices. “Despite the President’s grandstanding on drilling in ANWR, Congress passed three pieces of legislation that will have an impact at the pump,” said Ryan. “I am proud to back legislation that will crack down on speculators in the market who experts say are driving up the price of oil, force oil companies to use the land they have to produce energy and make public transit more affordable.” Bills passed on the House floor today included: The Saving Energy through Public Transportation Act of 2008. The bill gives grants to mass transit authorities to reduce public transit fares. The bill’s $1.7 billion in mass transit grants for the next two years could also be used to expand transit services and for the escalating operating costs of public transportation and would be available to both rural and urban areas. The Energy Markets Emergency Act. The Act directs the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to use it full authority and most potent emergency tools to curtail excessive speculation and other practices distorting the energy market. According to one expert at the Center for Energy Economics at the University of Texas, speculators could account for about $20 to $25 in the jump in oil prices. That’s over 60% of the total rise in oil prices since January. The Responsible Federal Oil and Gas Lease Act. The “Use it or Lose it” legislation forces oil companies to produce oil and gas, or diligently develop, the 68 million acres of public land they already have leased, but are not using to produce energy. This legislation was blocked by House Republicans and was not approved. “I’m disappointed many Republicans in Congress would rather score political points on this issue than be constructive partners to find a solution for consumers,” added Ryan. “Oil companies have already leased 68 million acres they aren’t using to produce energy. Big oil ought to be forced to use it or lose it. We know that when the U.S. has less than 2 percent of the world’s oil reserves, but uses 24%, we simply can’t drill our way to energy independence—but drilling in lands we already have set aside is a small part of the solution.” Prior to today’s votes, Democrats have taken action to make America more energy independent and bring down the cost of gasoline. Democrats have previously passed legislation that has been signed into law that will suspend the filling of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve from June 30th through the end of the year, creating more supply—and potentially putting the brakes on higher prices. The House also approved the Gas Price Relief for Consumers Act of 2008. The legislation gives U.S. authorities the ability to prosecute anticompetitive conduct committed by international cartels, like OPEC, that restricts supply and drives up prices.
06.19.2008	Congressman Ryan Hails Subcommittee Action on Energy and Water Appropriations Bill (Washington, DC) -- Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), a member of the Energy and Water Subcommittee on Appropriations, applauded the House Appropriations Sub-Committee for passing the Energy and Water Appropriations Bill for FY 2009. The bill contains over $6 million in projects for the district. Action is still pending by the full House, Senate and President. “As a member of the subcommittee which wrote this bill, I am proud to announce that our hard work has paid off with legislation that brings over $6 million in federal funds back to our community,” said Congressman Ryan. “These projects will spur new research and development at our colleges, improve our sewer and water infrastructure, and help produce new products that will be manufactured here and create jobs.” The bill includes $2 million to create a Center for Renewable Energy Systems at Youngstown State University and provides $1.5 million for an advanced energy program at the University of Akron. A full list is included below: · YSU Center for Renewable Energy Systems (CERES): $2,000,000 The Center for Efficiency in Renewable Energy Systems will be an interdisciplinary industry-university center that integrates engineering design with energy systems analysis to improve the energy utilization of today's manufacturing industry and tomorrow's alternative energy industry. The Center will translate YSU's energy research efforts into practical application for industrial needs. · University of Akron Fuel Cell for Clean Coal Power Plants: $1,500,000 Researchers at the University of Akron (UA) have been working several years to demonstrate the technical feasibility of building a 5-kilowatt scale coal fuel cell that can economically convert high sulfur coal into electricity with near zero negative environmental impact. UA is currently in the process of building the coal fuel cell and has developed all the technology necessary. The 5kW fuel cell is expected to be completed during summer 2008. Federal funds are requested for the second phase of UA’s coal fuel cell effort. Now that the 5kW is nearly complete, support is needed to implement the design and construction of a mid-size scale demonstration (250kW) pilot-plant fuel cell with participation by industries. · Alpha Micron Adaptive Liquid Crystal Display: $1,000,000 The goal of the Adaptive Liquid Crystal Windows project is to create a film which can be used for commercial and residential windows. The program will develop a manufacturable system based on variable liquid crystal display technology that meets the market assigned specifications. Using its in-house capability for material synthesis, product engineering and liquid crystal film manufacturing, AlphaMicron will create a liquid crystal-based film where its visible light transmission can be altered from 70% to 30% by application of a voltage from a solar cell. This technology will be used as the light valve component of Adaptive Window. This development will be the first of its kind since currently all variable liquid crystal technologies are on flat glass substrates. · Wick District-Smoky Hollow Development (WD-SH) Infrastructure Improvements: $550,000 This complex urban initiative is a cornerstone project in Youngstown’s revitalization. The Wick District-Smokey Hollow Development program is the first large-scale mixed-use project seen in this city in many decades. Its central location promotes collaboration, revitalization, and economic development. The project requires that all existing infrastructure must be replaced to prepare for construction and expansion of residential, commercial, office, and industrial operations within the Wick District. · Little Squaw Creek Interceptor: $675,000 Phase II of the Little Squaw Creek Interceptor Sewer Project involves the construction of a sewage pumping station and 1,700 linear feet of 10-inch sanitary sewer line along State Route 193 in southern Vienna Township. Phase II of this project is a vital link between Phase I to the south in Liberty Township, and future phases to the north in Vienna Township. Besides serving individual homes with failing septic systems, Phase II of the project will also provide sanitary sewer service to several businesses along State Route 193 that have expressed interest in sewer service in order to expand and create new employment opportunities in the area. · Streetsboro Trunk Sewer Improvements: $1,600,000 The project will improve and replace two sections of failing sanitary sewer line within the City of Streetsboro. The existing sewers in these areas are operating at a fraction of their full capacity and are known to overflow during storm events. The County plans to replace approximately 14,000 linear feet of sewer line, 54 manholes, and 39 lateral reconnections in the northeast quadrant of the City and in the Industrial Park off of Mondial Parkway. These two sections of sewer line must be replaced to improve service to existing residential and industrial development, and protect water quality within the Tinkers Creek watershed, which is part of the larger Cuyahoga River watershed. · Campbell Brownfield Revitalization Program: $700,000 The city of Campbell collaborated with the CASTLO Community Improvement Corporation, Mahoning County and the neighboring communities of Struthers and Youngstown to form the Mahoning River Corridor of Opportunity (MRCO), a 1,470-acre brownfield site that for the first three quarters of the 20th century was the home to two fully integrated steel mills: the former Republic Steel Corporation’s Youngstown Works, and the former Youngstown Sheet & Tube Company’s Campbell and Struthers Works. MRCO adopted a master plan which has a primary economic development goal to create job opportunities for residents of the region and to strengthen the tax base of MRCO member communities. The plan presents a long-term development strategy which identifies needed future infrastructure (roadway and utility) improvements, including approximately 5,000 lineal feet of 12-inch sanitary sewer lines to serve in excess of 1,000,000 square feet of existing building space and over 100 acres of developable land. Providing the proposed sanitary sewer improvements are made, the MRCO Master Plan indicates the property could accommodate at least 20 development sites which could collectively accommodate nearly 1,000 employees and generate an estimated $650,000 annually in both property and income taxes, thus supporting important community services.
06.12.2008	Vows to work towards securing high speed rail corridor for Cleveland-Pittsburgh WASHINGTON – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) voted yesterday for the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008 (H.R. 6003) which attempts an ambitious reorganization of the troubled rail carrier. The measure will provide increased capital and operating grants to Amtrak, alleviate “choke points” in the passenger rail system, reduces Amtrak’s debt and finds new ways to capitalize on the carrier’s profitable routes. Two key measures of the bill, the development of state passenger corridors providing better intercity rail services and the authorization of 11 high-speed rail corridors were key to Congressman Ryan’s support. “I believe that high-speed rail is the future of transportation in our state, and especially for Northeast Ohio,” said Congressman Ryan. “The construction of a high speed rail line that runs from Cleveland to Pittsburgh would be a watershed moment for our community. This is a logical step towards greater economic integration and the creation of the Tech Belt.” In an effort to encourage the development of new and improved intercity passenger rail services, the bill creates a new State Capital Grant program for intercity passenger rail capital projects, and based on the New Starts transit capital program administered by the Federal Transit Administration. The bill provides $2.5 billion ($500 million per year) for grants to States to pay for the capital costs of facilities and equipment necessary to provide new or improved intercity passenger rail. The bill also authorizes $1.75 billion ($350 million per year) for grants to States and/or Amtrak to finance the construction and equipment for 11 authorized high-speed rail corridors. The Federal share of the grants is up to 80 percent. The Secretary of Transportation would award these grants on a competitive basis for projects based on economic performance, expected ridership, and other factors. “America has seriously lagged behind other industrialized nations in the creation of a high-speed efficient rail infrastructure,” said Congressman Ryan. “We are competing in a global marketplace where you can get from London to Paris, 211 miles away, in 2 ½ hours by rail. Shanghai in China boasts a train that can travel up to 267 miles per hour on magnets. I don’t see why we shouldn’t be able to get from Cleveland to Pittsburgh in about an hour.”
06.10.2008	Gas prices lasting legacy of nearly a decade of failed Republican policies, New Direction Congress building new energy future (Washington, DC) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) responded today to Congressional Republicans attempts to link the Democratic majority in Congress to higher gas prices. Citing seven bills that have currently passed the House directly dealing with energy independence and gas prices and three initiatives being deliberated by the Senate, Congressman Ryan called Republican attacks nothing but a distraction from what Congress needs to do to provide relief at the pump. “Congressional Republicans don’t seem to live on the same planet that we do,” said Congressman Ryan. “Many Congressional Republicans blindly voted for or supported Bush’s party line on energy policies that were written by oil company lobbyists under the cover of darkness in the Vice President’s office. Now they want you to believe that the Democratic majority, which has been in office for a year and a half, is responsible for the rise in gas prices?” This week, the Senate has begun debate on measures that would place a tax on oil company windfall profits (S 3044), which have reached record levels. The money would be reinvested into new energy alternatives such as wind, nuclear, hydro-electric and coal power. In addition, the Senate has begun discussions on revoking tax rebates oil companies have been receiving as well as legislation that would allow the government to sue OPEC for price gouging. All three of these measures have companion legislation already tackled by the House of Representatives. These measures come on the heels of no less than seven bills that have already passed the House of Representatives on climate change and gas prices. Those bills include: H.R. 6022 which temporarily suspends the fill of the Strategic Oil Reserve to begin a short-term correction in gas prices. H.R. 6 which gives the FTC new authority to crack down on energy price manipulation and raises vehicle fuel efficiency for the first time in 32 years H.R. 6074 which holds OPEC accountable for price fixing H.R. 1252 which investigates retailers that may be price gouging and using high oil prices to unfairly inflate their rates H.R. 5351 which ends unnecessary subsidies to oil companies and returns revenues from those subsidies to investments in clean, renewable energy “This Congress has an actual plan to overturn the failed policies of the past,” said Congressman Ryan. “We are taking both short-term steps to try and bring down gas prices, and long-term steps toward ending our dependence on foreign oil. Misleading Congressional Republican attacks on this Congress’ record are a distraction from the hard work that needs to be done to help Americans at the pump. It’s time for them to step up and become partners in the solution, rather than play political games on an issue that strikes to the heart of our national security.”
06.03.2008	Washington, D.C. –Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) released this statement on GM’s addition of a 3rd shift at Lordstown and its commitment to build a new car there in mid-2010: “This news represents the latest positive development for our community and shows that our area is determined to compete nationally and globally. It is a testament to the extraordinarily hard work done by our people in both labor and management at the plant,” said Congressman Ryan. “GM Lordstown will continue to be one of General Motor’s premier auto manufacturing plants, and to have it right here in the Mahoning Valley will yield positive effects for our community for years to come.”
05.22.2008	Plan Invests in Energy, Education, and Infrastructure; Cuts Taxes on Middle Class; Returns Budget to Balance WASHINGTON – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) today voted for the fiscal year 2009 budget plan that charts a New Direction for the country. The budget makes key investments in energy, education, and infrastructure as well as providing tax relief for the middle class. The plan, a budget conference agreement for fiscal 2009, won approval today by the House of Representatives. “I am happy that this long budget process has ended with an agreement that invests in our critical infrastructure and quality of life,” said Congressman Ryan. “I often say that our budget priorities must reflect our values. This resolution which balances the budget, invests in renewable energy sources, makes investments in education and helps struggling families by providing middle-class tax relief does just that.” The Democratic budget: Rejects the failed fiscal policies of the Bush Administration. It returns the budget to balance – reaching a surplus of $22 billion in 2012 and $10 billion in 2013. Responds to soaring energy costs by helping promote renewable energy, clean fuel technology, and energy efficiency. Makes education and innovation investments that will generate economic growth and jobs, make college more affordable, improve student achievement, and reverse the Bush Administration’s under-funding of education. Invests in our nation’s infrastructure – repairing crumbling roads, bridges, transit, airports, and schools. Does not include any tax increase. To the contrary, it supports significant tax relief, including extension of marriage penalty relief, the child tax credit, and the 10 percent bracket, as well as allowing for estate tax reform. It includes an additional year of Alternative Minimum Tax relief. And it provides for property tax relief, energy and education tax relief, and extenders. Makes our country safer by providing robust funding for national defense and ensuring that resources are available to address the most critical threats facing the nation. It ensures that veterans get the quality health care they need and deserve. It also protects the homeland and rejects the President’s cuts in law enforcement, the COPS program, firefighters, and other first responders.
05.14.2008	House votes for H.R. 6022 which would direct the Executive Branch to stop sending fuel to Strategic Petroleum Reserve; send it to market which would bring down prices (Washington, DC) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) applauded the swift action on H.R. 6022, the Strategic Petroleum Reserve Fill Suspension and Consumer Protection Act of 2008. The legislation, which Congressman Ryan Co-Sponsored, would force the President to stop diverting oil to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) and move it to market which would bring down the price of gas. “Let me be clear, this bill is intended to give short term relief to middle class and working families who are being held hostage at the pump,” said Congressman Ryan. “I know we have a long way to go to securing our energy independence and believe that this is merely the start of our efforts to bring down gas prices permanently by ending our dependence on foreign oil.” The bill passed the House on suspension by a veto-proof majority of 385-25 and a similar measure has passed the Senate by a vote of 97-1. Currently the SPR contains 695 million barrels of oil and is 95% full. A 2003 Senate Subcommittee Report found that oil deposits to the SPR drive up oil prices by tightening supply and reducing domestic stocks. It is believed that by immediately stopping shipments to the SPR, consumers would see as much as a $.25 reduction in prices at the pump. “There is a good chance that the President may try to veto this legislation,” said Congressman Ryan. “Once again, we see a President that is absolutely out of touch with average working families and completely unconcerned with their needs in these tough economic times.”
05.06.2008	Washington D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Niles), announced today that 335 Indalex workers in Girard and Niles displaced by recent job losses will receive important job training and placement assistance from the United States Department of Labor. “These vital TAA benefits will help ensure that Indalex workers will get the training and job placement assistance they need to successfully find new work and secure the future for their families,” said Congressman Ryan. The TAA program is a federal program that provides aid to workers who lose their jobs or whose hours of work and wages are reduced as a result of increased imports. The program extends benefits including training for employment in another job or career, income support, job search allowance, and relocation allowances. Qualified workers may quickly return to employment through a combination of these services.
04.23.2008	Bill would authorize $1,000,000,000 for demolition of abandoned structures; cleanup (Washington, DC) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) and Congressman Charlie Wilson (OH-06) announced the introduction of the Emergency Neighborhood Reclamation Act today. The Ryan-Wilson bill would authorize $1 billion in federal funds for the demolition of abandoned buildings in blighted areas. Ryan-Wilson responds to the mortgage foreclosure crisis and will help ensure the public health and safety of residents who stay behind. “Cities like Akron, Cleveland, Pittsburgh, Buffalo, Detroit and Youngstown need to meet the challenges of urban population decline and the mortgage foreclosure crisis. These problems have led to the abandonment of whole neighborhoods,” said Congressman Ryan. “This money will help tear down abandoned and dilapidated structures which threaten the public health and safety of our communities. I am proud to work with my good friend Congressman Charlie Wilson on this critically-needed legislation.” “The concern is that many foreclosed homes have been empty for a long period of time. Many of them have been stripped of their copper piping and other valuable parts. To rehabilitate such homes is often more expensive than demolishing and starting new. We need to do what’s best for neighborhoods that are hurting,” said Congressman Charlie Wilson. Many cities in the Midwest, including Youngstown, currently have a surplus of abandoned properties. However, it is not always feasible to rehabilitate and reuse them due to prolonged job and population losses. These structures create blight, serve as breeding grounds for rats and other vermin, are used for illicit purposes such as drug trafficking and distribution and create a financial burden on the cities that still need to provide public utilities to the area. The prompt demolition and removal of these properties is necessary to protect public health and safety but many cities across the country don’t have the money or resources to demolish these houses. “We will not allow whole neighborhoods to turn into ghost towns. Providing cities with the necessary resources to pursue “creative shrinkage” policies, as Youngstown has, is a successful strategy for economic development,” said Congressman Ryan. “This funding will be used to demolish existing structures and create green space, parks and new development in the future,” said Congressman Ryan. “I look forward to working with Congressman Tim Ryan on this bill and other important pieces of housing legislation as Congress tackles the sub-prime mortgage foreclosure crisis,” said Congressman Wilson.
04.21.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Ryan released the following statement about Nancy Pelosi’s attempt to block President Bush’s “Fast Track” authority on the Columbia free-trade agreement. “Speaker Pelosi has identified the Columbia Free Trade Agreement as a flawed agreement which would further hurt America’s working families,” said Congressman Ryan. “Speaker Pelosi has shown extraordinary leadership and the courage of her convictions by not allowing the President to bully Congress into yet another disaster of a trade bill.” Added Ryan, “Speaker Pelosi’s commitment to go to bat for America’s working families makes me proud to serve in this body. We are lucky to have such a strong ally in her, and I will help fight this bill until the very end.”
04.21.2008	Washington D.C., March 20, 2008 – Congressman Ryan today congratulated Lockheed Martin and the entire High Altitude Airship (HAA) program for the transfer from the Department of Defense’s Missile Defense Agency to the U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command. The move will keep the High Altitude Airship in development and will keep jobs in Akron. Congressman Ryan is a longtime supporter of the program and has fought hard in Congress to provide the necessary funding for HAA. “As a longtime supporter of the HAA and one of its greatest advocates in Congress, I want to give my heartfelt congratulations to the management and labor force at Lockheed Martin, and in Akron who are working so hard to build this airship,” Said Congressman Tim Ryan. “I will continue to be a partner as this important program moves forward and will do everything I can in Congress to ensure its success.” “Keeping these jobs in our community is great for the citizens of Summit County. Congratulations to Lockheed Martin for the great work they do and many thanks to Congressman Tim Ryan for his support,” said Summit County Executive Russ Pry The HAA will be designed to operate autonomously in the stratosphere for long periods of time (greater than six months) as a stable, geostationary platform suitable for communications, sensors, and weapons. Operating at 60,000 feet, the unmanned aircraft would be able to perform valuable command and control and reconnaissance duties for the armed forces. It will be housed at Lockheed’s Airdock in Akron.
04.08.2008	Award given to acquire safety equipment and fencing, install guidance signs (Washington, DC) Congressman Tim Ryan is proud to announce the Federal Aviation Administration has granted the Western Reserve Port Authority (WRPA) and the Youngstown-Warren Regional Airport an award of $962,885. The money will go towards safety equipment, airfield guidance signs, and fencing improvements. These funds are necessary to enhance safety at the airport. “I am proud to announce the $962,885 grant to the Port Authority,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “I pledge to continue working for the airport’s needed resources but also look forward to working with the Port Authority on broader economic development projects throughout the Mahoning Valley.” “This grant is extremely important because the FAA won’t allow us to move ahead with the Airport’s master plan until we complete the fence project. This puts us two years ahead of schedule,” said John Masternick Jr., Chairman of the Western Reserve Port Authority. Federal funds are being provided for the fourth construction phase to raise the height of the wildlife perimeter fence from eight to ten feet. In addition, funds have been made available for the installation of runway guidance signs at the Youngstown-Warren Regional Airport. These improvements will improve the safety at the airfield.
03.27.2008	Check for $300 for single adults and $600 for married couples if they have at least $3,000 in qualifying income will help ease economic hardship Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) today urged district residents to go to their nearest IRS support center and file paperwork making them eligible for their economic stimulus check. The IRS announced yesterday that their offices will be open THIS Saturday in order to help people who do not already file income tax returns but are eligible to receive tax rebates of up to $300 for single adults and $600 for married couples provided they have at least $3000 in qualifying income. “I urge our residents who are eligible to receive these checks to go and fill out their paperwork this weekend,” said Congressman Ryan. “This is not a long term fix for our economic problems, but will help ease the pain in these exceptionally tough times.” Residents who receive any combination of earned income such as wages, nontaxable combat pay and certain benefits from Social Security, Veterans Affairs and Railroad Retirement are eligible. The IRS this week is mailing 20.5 million Social Security and Veterans Affairs recipients a Package 1040A-3 that contains all the information they need to file a return immediately. Railroad Retirement recipients, low-income individuals and military personnel with nontaxable combat pay also can use the package if they need to file solely to receive the payment. Operating hours on Saturday will be 9 a.m. to 3 p.m., although some may be open longer. IRS employees will help prepare the Form 1040A returns for low-income workers, retirees, disabled veterans and others. IRS field assistance personnel also will visit nursing homes and similar locations to prepare returns. A list of local “Super Saturday” Locations can be found below: Akron: 2 S. Main St,. 9 a.m.-3 p.m. (Ellett Branch Library) 2470 E. Market St. 11 a.m. - 3 p.m. Youngstown: 10 E. Commerce St. 9 a.m.-3 p.m. Forms can also be picked up at the Warren-Trumbull Regional Library in downtown Warren.
02.14.2008	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) and Congressman Duncan Hunter (CA-52) addressed today’s year-end trade numbers with a bipartisan coalition of lawmakers, industry groups and labor today. They cited the record deficit with China as further evidence action is needed on countries that unfairly manipulate their currencies. Congressman Ryan and Congressman Hunter are Co-authors of the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act which would help remedy the current trade imbalance by imposing countervailing duties on goods from other countries that are given unfair advantages due to currency imbalance. “The trade numbers that came out today and show another record deficit with China is further evidence that this problem is getting worse and not better,” said Congressman Ryan (D-OH). “Our economy is at risk of recession, we continue to lose manufacturing jobs and we need to have the courage to do something real about it.” Congressman Ryan was joined by original cosponsor Congressman Duncan Hunter (R-CA) as well as Congresswoman Betty Sutton (D-OH), Congressman Don Manzullo (R-IL), Congressman Charles Wilson (D-OH), Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congressman Robin Hayes (R-NC). In addition, more than 25 small and medium sized manufacturers attended the conference, and speakers included members of the AFL-CIO, China Currency Coalition and the U.S. Business and Industry Council. “This is one of the most broad based coalitions I’ve ever had the pleasure to work with,” said Congressman Ryan, “Democrats and Republicans, manufacturers and labor, and representatives from all over the country have come together on this common sense legislation which only asks China to live up to the standards it agreed to when it joined the WTO.”
02.12.2008	Washington, D.C. –Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) gave this statement of support for Governor Ted Strickland’s $1.7 billion dollar Ohio Job Stimulus Package: “With this package, the Governor has laid out a bold vision for Ohio’s economic future,” said Congressman Ryan. “By investing in critical infrastructure upgrades, cutting edge manufacturing in the renewable energy and biomedical sectors and $200 million to the Ohio Main Streets Renewal Initiative, we’ll see the creation of 80,000 jobs and new opportunities in emerging industries which will have long-term benefits for all of us, especially in Northeast Ohio. I am 100% behind this plan and should it end up as a ballot initiative, I will actively campaign for it. I look forward to working with the Governor on the Building Ohio Jobs package and ensuring that Northeast Ohio is positioned to capitalize on the program’s benefits.” Provisions of the Governor’s Jobs package include: Economy: Building Ohio Jobs, $1.7 billion Ohio Jobs Package To respond to the state’s economic challenges, Governor Strickland is proposing Building Ohio Jobs, a $1.7 billion jobs stimulus package to create more than 80,000 jobs and lay the foundation for future economic prosperity. Through issuing bonds, the plan will invest: $250 million in the advanced and renewable energy economy, including solar, wind and clean coal. $150 million in our state’s infrastructure to help create a seamless network of roads, rails, and ports to support our logistics and distribution industry. $100 million in bioproducts that use renewable sources instead of petroleum to create plastics and other products. $200 million in the biomedical industry, saving lives by fueling Ohio’s leadership in new medical products. $200 million establishing the Ohio Main Streets Renewal Initiative to spur redevelopment in downtown neighborhoods in our cities and towns. $400 million in the Clean Ohio fund, to advance our efforts to reclaim brownfields and other damaged lands and preserve farm land and open spaces. $400 million in the Ohio Public Works Commission to help our local partners with road, bridge, water and sewer projects. These are projects that spur growth in our cities and towns and Ohio as a whole.
02.05.2008	Workforce Investment Act Grant reinforces regional economic ties Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Tim Ryan (OH-17), Jason Altmire (PA-04), Steve LaTourette (OH-14), Phil English (PA-03) and Charlie Wilson (OH-06) announced a Workforce Investment Act Grant for the West Central Job Partnership of New Castle, PA. The Grant will provide $250,000 in funds that will be spent in Lawrence and Mercer counties in Pennsylvania and Mahoning, Columbiana and Trumbull counties in Ohio. “This grant furthers the work that we have been doing to present a regional economic model for our community,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “The federal government is beginning to see what we’ve been saying all along, that the border between Western Pennsylvania and Northeast Ohio isn’t relevant in a global economy. I will continue to work with Congressman Altmire and others to attract federal investments in our community and show businesses that our region is ready to become the nation’s tech-belt.” “If you’re without a job and need help, the last thing you need in your way is a geographic barrier,” LaTourette said. “It makes sense to tap into shared solutions for shared problems, and I’m glad to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle and on both sides of the Ohio-Pennsylvania border.” “We must work across state and Congressional boundaries. We will rise or fall together as a region, so cooperation is essential to the economic development of this area. I’m proud that Congressmen Ryan, Altmire and I could collaborate and bring such an important project home,” said Congressman Wilson. “Continuing to better coordinate economic development initiatives in eastern Ohio and western Pennsylvania will help our region become more competitive in the global marketplace,” Altmire said. “Congressman Ryan and I are committed to laying the ground work for future economic success by supporting programs like the West Central Job Partnership that will help to transform our region into the tech-belt and create new opportunities for local workers.” “Today’s announcement is a real win for Mercer County and the surrounding region,” said Congressman Phil English. “This funding will go a long way in helping the West Central Job Partnership continue with its mission to help local workers that have experienced job losses get back on their feet and back into the workforce. By expanding resources to assist workers in both Pennsylvania and Ohio we can ensure that our region’s workers will have will have continued access to good paying jobs in the 21st century.” The funds for West Central Job Partnership will go toward the development and implementation of a plan to link education and workforce development services across the border in order to help workers who have lost their jobs. The goal of the project is to help workers get the training and resources they need to move into new careers after a plant or business closes. “Communities on both sides of the border have faced similar job losses, it only makes sense that we work together to bring jobs back,” added Congressman Tim Ryan. “That is why I am working with Congressman Altmire to use all the tools at our disposal to make our area the nation’s leader in high tech manufacturing, alternative energy and healthcare.” “Linking education and workforce development efforts across our state’s borders will increase the number of qualified workers and make this area even more attractive to new companies,” Altmire said. “By working together, Pennsylvania and Ohio will be able to multiply their efforts and create a more prosperous future for our region.” “I’ve always said that our work force is one of the best in the country. This is a positive way to help some of the best workers around get the skills they’ll need for the jobs of tomorrow. Loss of jobs and subsequent loss of talented workers isn’t good for the region. We want to retrain and thus retain the hard working men and women of this region. They will help us attract new industry to the area,” continued Congressman Wilson.
02.04.2008	(Washington, D.C.) – Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-17) released the following statement in response to the release of President Bush’s budget: “Our values are reflected in our budget priorities and the President has shown that he doesn’t share our values,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Clearly, the President doesn’t value healthcare for our grandparents because of the drastic cuts he wants to make in Medicare. Clearly, the President doesn’t value keeping home heating affordable for our working poor because of his drastic cuts to the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program and clearly the President doesn’t value the safety and security of our children because of his cuts to the Community Oriented Policing Services program which would be eliminated completely. I suppose the only values that this President does stand for are ensuring no bid contracts get to his friends and the richest 1% of Americans enjoy tax cuts at the expense of the middle class.”
01.29.2008	Legislation Will Offer Tax Rebates for 4.8 Million Families in Ohio Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) today joined an overwhelming bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives in support of the Recovery Rebates and Economic Stimulus for the American People Act. The legislation will help stimulate the economy, providing tax rebates to 4.8 million households in Ohio and was passed by a vote of 385-35. Tax rebates of up to $1,200 per couple, plus $300 per child, could be seen as early as mid-May. “I believe this bill will help ease the burden of many families across our community, but we need to do more,” said Congressman Ryan. “We face enormous employment problems, spiraling health care costs, unfair trade practices and predatory lending practices in the mortgage industry which have to be addressed. I call upon President Bush to work cooperatively with Congress to confront these challenges.” The bill passed today provides a recovery rebate to 13 million senior citizens and 117 million families, including 35 million families who work but make too little to pay income taxes. The House-passed stimulus package will provide tax relief of up to $600 per individual and $1,200 per married couple, plus an additional $300 per child. All told, the bill is estimated to provide an average tax rebate of $875 to Ohio families and save them a total of $4.2 billion across the state. The legislation also includes tax cuts for small businesses. The bipartisan plan doubles the amount small businesses can immediately write off their taxes for capital investments, and encourages investments in new equipment. Additionally, the plan offers immediate tax relief for all businesses to invest in new plants and equipment by speeding up depreciation provisions so that firms can write off an additional 50 percent for investments purchased in 2008. “I am especially proud of the small business tax cuts included in the bill. The ability to immediately write off taxes on capital investments encourages spending on new equipment which will have a direct impact on the economy. I urge all of our small businesses to take advantage of these tax rebates,” said Congressman Ryan. Importantly, the bipartisan plan also includes provisions to help families avoid losing their homes to foreclosure. The bill expands affordable mortgage loan opportunities for families at risk of foreclosure through the Federal Housing Administration. To enhance credit availability in the mortgage market, the measure also includes a one-year increase in the loan limits for single family homes from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. While this bill has passed the House, it is subject to change due to Senate action and requires the signature of the President to be enacted into law.
01.29.2008	Washington D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) released this statement as a reaction to the President’s State of the Union address this evening. “As expected, the President didn’t say anything new and didn’t offer any constructive solutions. The President should be focused much more on domestic programs which will actually help the American middle class rather than trying to make his tax cuts to the richest 1% permanent. If he’s really concerned with empowering the American people, then he’d be protecting them from losing their homes in this mortgage crisis, losing their jobs to workers abroad and would sign the bi-partisan S-CHIP legislation which would cover 10 million children with healthcare.”
01.23.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) today voted to support the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) and override the President’s veto of bipartisan legislation to provide healthcare to 10 million children. More than 218,000 children in Ohio currently receive care through SCHIP, and the bipartisan plan vetoed by the President would have extended care to 122,000 more children who are in need of coverage. “After years of no bid contracts to Halliburton and billions of unaccounted funds spent on a War in Iraq which will cost our nation over a trillion dollars, the President wants us to believe he’s a fiscal conservative, and takes that stand with millions of children hanging in the balance,” Congressman Ryan said. “When unemployment increases, so do the number of Americans without health insurance,” Congressman Ryan said. “In this weak economy, more and more American parents are having difficulty finding health insurance for their children. As a result, the SCHIP program is more critical than ever.” The legislation vetoed by the President provided a $35 billion expansion of the SCHIP program and would have provided health care coverage to 10 million children. The legislation was backed by Republicans and Democrats in both houses of Congress and enjoyed support from Governors of both parties. Congressman Ryan believes there is broad support for this measure among the American people. Congressman Ryan vowed to continue to fight in Washington to enact legislation to provide health care for 10 million children this year. The existing SCHIP program was extended in December until March 2009—but, without this legislation, 3.8 million additional low-income children who are eligible but not enrolled will now not be covered under the program. In addition, state budget shortfalls and administrative rules from President Bush put children who are covered now in jeopardy of losing health care. “One way or another, we’re going to provide healthcare for these kids. The President will not be allowed to hijack children’s healthcare,” said Congressman Ryan.
01.22.2008	Washington, D.C. – After learning of the dangerous situation that exists at Elkton Prison Congressmen Charlie Wilson (OH-6) and Tim Ryan (OH-17) wrote the following letter to the Department of Justice’s Inspector General. --------- January 18, 2007 Mr. Glenn A. Fine, Inspector General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Suite 4706 Washington, DC 20530 Dear Inspector General Fine: We write to you today concerned about the preliminary report recently issued by your office. This report revealed that workers at the Elkton Prison in Elkrun Township, Ohio were exposed to unsafe levels of cadmium and lead. We were outraged to read this report, and we hope to work with you to rectify the situation. The report states that the exposures occurred at the UNICOR inmate factory while prison guards were changing the air handling filters in the ventilation system. It further indicates that exposure levels were 450 times the allowable levels as set by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). It is widely known that lead can damage nervous connections and cause blood and brain disorders; and that cadmium is a known carcinogen that can induce many types of cancer. It is our understanding that medical teams will conduct an investigation to determine exposure levels to staff before issuing a final report. At this time we ask your assistance on three fronts: first, that the final assessment are completed without delay; second, that our offices be kept informed as soon as information becomes available; and third that we can work together after the final findings are released to prevent future lead and cadmium exposure to prison employees and inmates. We thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. We look forward to working with you in the future. Please do not hesitate to call us or Joan Gregory of Wilson’s staff with any questions at 202-225-5705. Sincerely, Charles Wilson Tim Ryan Member of Congress Member of Congress
12.18.2007	Continues to pressure State Department, Brazilian Government to extradite (Washington D.C.) – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) hosted Brazilian embassy officials in his office on Capitol Hill today in an effort to get them to extradite Claudia C. Hoerig, who has been charged with the murder of her husband, Karl Hoerig, in their Newton Falls home on March 12, 2007. Congressman Ryan spoke directly with Alfredo Leoni, Minister Counselor, Embassy of Brazil and Luiza Lopes da Silva, Head of the Consular Sector, Embassy of Brazil. The Brazilian diplomats reiterated their position that extraditing Ms. Hoerig would require Brazil to change a constitutional provision prohibiting the extradition of its citizens. Congressman Ryan vowed to continue to seek justice in this case. “I’m not going to sit back and allow Claudia Hoerig to escape justice,” said Congressman Ryan. “We will find a way to try Ms. Hoerig and seek justice and closure for the Hoerig family.” Over the past nine months, Congressman Ryan has fought hard to resolve this matter. He has been in constant contact with the U.S. State Department, U.S. Department of Justice, the Brazilian Ambassador to the United States, and the Brazilian Foreign Minister about the case. He is also considering legislation requiring the President to enter into substantive talks with Brazil about its constitution. On March 10, 2007, Claudia Hoerig purchased a Smith and Wesson .357 five shot revolver and spent the rest of the day at the Warren Shooting Range. On March 12, 2007, Ms. Hoerig fatally shot her husband in their Newton Falls home. She then fled to her native Brazil where she retains citizenship in addition to her September 28, 1999 U.S. naturalization.
11.15.2007	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan today voted for The Transportation and Housing and Urban Development conference report, which includes $1.2 million in investments for the 17th Congressional District. The bill provides resources to addresses the challenges of keeping our transportation system safe and strong, and ensuring that Americans have access to adequate housing. Across the nation, this bill invests $40 billion in the nation’s highway system for construction of new roads, repairs and improvements and $1 billion to address deficient bridges. The investments in this bill are expected to create 100,000 new jobs. The Housing and Urban Development section of the bill includes $3.79 billion for Community Development Block Grants, an increase of $100 million above 2007; $735 million for Housing for the Elderly programs; $237 million for Housing for the Disabled and $120 million for HOPE VI projects, $21 million above 2007. The Democratic-led Congress again rejected the President’s plan to eliminate the HOPE VI program. “The passage of this bill ensures that needed projects in our District and across the nation are adequately funded, and makes sure that those who need assistance with housing issues get the help they need,” said Congressman Ryan. “In addition, 15,500 new housing vouchers are being provided for our veterans, the disabled and low-income families. Both the Community Block Grants and the HOPE VI projects have had a great impact in my District, and we need to keep them funded.” The bill also provides $599 million in Highway Safety Grants to encourage safety belt use, prevent drinking and driving, improve child safety and motorcyclist safety. The National Transportation Safety Board Safety Investigators will receive $84.5 million to provide additional investigators to respond to and investigate transportation crashes. Projects for the 17th Congressional District include: Mahoning Avenue (Youngstown) Improvements, $250,000 Portage Area Transit Authority Bus Purchase, $300,000 Kent State Multimodal Transportation Facility, $200,000 East Market Street (Warren) Widen/Improve Design, $250,000 Beatitude House Restoration $200,000
11.13.2007	The President Wants $200 billion for Iraq, but Education and Improved Health Care are too Expensive (Washington, D.C.) This morning, the President rejected critical funding for health care, education, job training, and home heating assistance by vetoing the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill. In response, Congressman Tim Ryan has issued the following statement: “President Bush’s veto of the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education appropriation bill shows how far out of touch the President is with the American people. It’s hard to believe the President can ask Congress for an additional $200 billion for Iraq but refuse to fund education, worker training, and medical research programs on the grounds that they are too expensive. “In addition to providing funding for federal domestic priorities such as health care, education, and medical research, this bill also provides $2.25 million in funding for local projects in the 17th District. The Rich Center for Autism, for example, was slated to receive grants for both professional development and off-site classroom surveillance for parents. The Pathways to the Building Trades would have received funding for training opportunities for students in Youngstown and Warren to get hands-on experience that will lead to jobs in the construction field. The President’s veto also jeopardizes funding for our local hospitals, funding for Kent State University, University of Akron, the Greater Akron Chamber of Commerce and Easter Seals of the Mahoning Valley. “The President’s veto of the domestic spending bill jeopardizes not just our national economy but also economic progress we’ve experienced at the local level. Democrats have tried to work with the President and the minority party in Congress to make sure that the priorities of the American people are funded in a responsible manner. “It is time for the President and his party to put America’s priorities first.”
11.08.2007	Money procured in Defense Appropriations Bill Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan announced $12,200,000 in federal investments for the District contained in the Defense Appropriations Bill which passed the House of Representatives. The projects range from research into reinforced materials for tires to a Center of Excellence at Youngstown State University. The bill also includes funding for research and development in Alternative Energy Fuel Cell Generation at Kent State University. During the final consideration of the bill Congressman Ryan and Senator Sherrod Brown led the effort to provide additional funding of $2.5 million for the High Altitude Airship, a project strongly supported by Akron Mayor Don Plusquellic, Summit County officials and other community leaders. “The investments announced today will move our District forward as we begin to transition to a high-tech corridor that will bring new jobs and new research and development initiatives to our area,” said Congressman Ryan. “These projects will provide job growth, needed products to our military, and help move our manufacturing sector to the next level of technological advancement.” The bill provides a 3.5 percent pay raise for all of our military personnel, improves health care for soldiers and provides more counselors, teachers and child care providers for our military families. $980 million is included to purchase essential National Guard and Reserve equipment to ensure that they have the necessary resources to meet either overseas deployment demands or to respond to natural disasters at home. The bill also provides $247 million to keep 3,000 National Guard troops on the border with Mexico until Spring of 2008. A list of the District projects included in the bill can be found below. The measure awaits the President’s signature. 1) Center of Excellence in Industrial Metrology & 3D Imaging Research, Youngstown State University, $1,600,000 2) Research and Development of Variable Transmittance Visors, Alpha Micron, $1,000,000 3) Research and Development for Alternative Energy Fuel Cell Generation, Kent State University, $2,000,000 4) Advanced Reinforced Materials and New Materials Research for Aircraft Tires, Goodyear Tire, $1,000,000 5) Research and Development for Secure Mobile MANET System, $1,200,000 6) Development of Feeding Tube for Battlefield Trauma Patients, Syncro Medical Systems, Canfield/Youngstown, $500,000 7) Research and Development of Tactical Metal Fabrication Systems (TacFab), Ajax Tocco, Warren, $2,400,000 8) High Altitude Airship, Lockheed Martin, $2,500,000
11.07.2007	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan announced today that he has secured federal funding for a military construction project at the Ravenna Training and Logistics Site that would create an instructional center critical to the mission of the training site. The $1.5 million secured in the Military Construction Appropriation bill will be used to renovate an existing warehouse to provide appropriate classroom space, including upgrades to heating, ventilation and air conditioning. “This money will be used to make sure that our Army National Guard personnel get quality instruction in the best facilities we can provide,” said Congressman Ryan. “Those who serve our country must be well trained for their mission, and the renovation of this building for classroom instruction is important to making this facility a first-class training center.” When the renovations are complete, the building will house the first instructional classrooms at the Ravenna facility.
11.07.2007	Eighty New Units to be built in Girard and Newton Falls WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan announced today that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development is awarding Trumbull County more than $9 million in HUD grants to be used for 80 senior housing units in Girard and Newton Falls. “The federal funding for these housing units will ensure that our senior citizens can continue to live independently in a safe and clean environment that have necessary amenities available nearby,” said Congressman Ryan. “Our senior citizens deserve to live with dignity no matter their level of income. These grants will help us realize that goal.” The Newton Falls project is being developed by Neighborhood Development Services, Inc., and will be built at Freedom and Trumbull Streets. A community room, a library and laundry facilities will be available for all of the residents. “The need for senior housing is growing at an alarming rate and is exaggerated through the foreclosure crisis. We are pleased to be able to address the needs of the elderly with an additional 40 units. Working with Congressman Ryan’s Office to address housing and foreclosure prevention and economic development within the region has been especially productive” said Dave Vaughan, Executive Director of Neighborhood Development Services. In Girard, a three-story building called Girard Manor will be constructed by the Trumbull Housing Development Corporation promoting independent living for the very low-income elderly. Don Emerson, Executive Director of the Trumbull County Metropolitan Housing Authority, believes the need for this project cannot be overstated. “This project has been three years in the making, and we are thrilled to see our hard work rewarded. The shifting demographics of our area have greatly increased the demand for decent, affordable housing, especially for the elderly. We believe our initiative will help to address this issue.”
11.01.2007	Says Nord is clearly not working in the best interests of the Commission (Washington D.C.) - Following the recall of millions of toys originating in China and the latest statements of Acting Chairperson of the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) Nancy Nord yesterday, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) is calling for Nord’s immediate resignation. Citing the Acting Chairperson’s opposition to a Senate bill aimed at doubling the number of full-time staffers at the Commission, Ryan questioned who Nord was interested in protecting. “I think its time for Acting Chairperson Nord to answer a very serious question. Is she more interested in protecting our children from lead poisoning, our families from tainted Chinese products or more interested in protecting the Bush Administration. Based on her recent comments, I’d say the latter,” said Congressman Ryan. “I call on the Chairperson to resign immediately. We can’t possibly play political games when the health and safety of our families are on the line.” Since 1980, the staff levels at the CPSC have been cut in half from 400 to around 200 today. A bill currently moving through the Senate, and expected to be voted on in the House, would allow the CPSC to increase the maximum penalties for safety violations and make it easier for the government to make public reports of faulty products. In addition, the bill would protect industry whistle-blowers and prosecute executives of companies that willfully violate laws. The bill would also increase the CPSC’s budget and double the number of people tasked with inspecting products and ensuring consumer safety. Nancy Nord opposes this plan. “This product safety crisis has been caused by two things that should have never been allowed to occur in the first place,” said Ryan. “first, the outsourcing of American jobs to China and second, the Bush administration’s dangerous anti-regulatory policies. It’s time for the Bush Administration to start putting America first.”
11.01.2007	Says he’s supportive of bill but feels much more needs to be done (Washington D.C.) – Today the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3920, the Trade and Globalization Assistance Act which would overhaul the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program to make it more effective. The bill would extend TAA to more manufacturing workers, begin covering service sector workers, double job training funding and improve health care for workers affected by plant closures. While the bill begins to address the new realities working families face in the new economy, Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) is encouraging his colleagues to take additional steps to protect America’s manufacturing workers and employers. “I am happy to see TAA get an overhaul because it will make periods of transition easier on people who lose their job,” said Congressman Ryan. “But we also need to focus our attention on the root of the problem—stopping the flow of jobs to China, India and elsewhere. We need to make our products more competitive on the market by creating a level playing field in currency valuations and we need to stop all new free trade agreements until we’ve insisted upon basic labor, environmental and safety standards to prevent more factories from relocating.” The bill also reforms unemployment insurance by providing financial incentives for states that end discrimination against part-time workers, and provide extended benefits during approved training for high demand employment. The bill does all this without raising any taxes. “Providing the education, training and support our workers need while they look for other employment is a necessity in this global economy,” said Congressman Ryan. “I applaud the Democratic leadership for taking it seriously and hope they continue to look for additional ways to help our working men and women.”
10.30.2007	Package would expand small business access to Federal Contracts Washington, D.C. –Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) voted today to help increase small businesses’ access to federal contracts. The Small Business Contracting Program Improvements Act (H.R. 3867) makes it easier for small business owners by standardizing SBA contracting programs, modernizing the 8(a) program for minority business owners, expanding opportunities for women entrepreneurs and making veteran-owned businesses priority contractors. “Small businesses are the economic engine of our country,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Over 99 percent of all employers are small business owners. Their shops create half of our gross domestic product and over 80 percent of the new jobs in our nation are created by them. The Democratic-led Congress and I are committed to making small businesses—including veteran-owned and minority-owned businesses--a priority and believe that the small business and innovation agenda packages we’ve passed so far will help create the good jobs we need in our community and country.” The Small Business Contracting Program Improvements Act also strengthens the HUBZone program, which promotes business in historically underutilized urban and rural areas with lower-than-average incomes. It also protects taxpayer dollars by reducing waste, fraud and abuse in the Small Business Administration’s bidding process. “I’m extremely excited that this bill strengthens HUBZone. This ensures that our small business community will be better able to effectively compete for federal contracts in our area.” said Congressman Ryan.
10.25.2007	Vows to continue fighting to protect 10 million children Washington, D.C. –Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) continued his fight for healthcare and applauded the House Democrats for not backing down on the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (S-CHIP) which would cover 10 million children. The bill, nearly identical to the one that was vetoed by President Bush, contained minor changes explicitly designed to address the core objections that The President had with the bill. “The President and a small group of fringe Republicans have staked out a ludicrous position on this bill,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “It is unconscionable to cloak their fundamental opposition to providing healthcare for children in arguments about covering wealthy children or allowing adults to remain on the program. These arguments already failed to pass the smell test, but nonetheless, the new S-CHIP bill explicitly ensures that no such issues could arise. If the President vetoes this bill now, and his fringe supporters in the House attempt to derail us again, they will be held accountable by the American people.” The revised bill clarifies that the legislation focuses on enrolling low-income children. -SCHIP coverage will be capped at 300 percent of poverty and states will only receive bonus payments for enrolling eligible children in Medicaid, the lowest income children in a state. -The bill ensures that illegal immigrants won’t have access to SCHIP by ensuring that the Social Security Administration receives documentation on an applicant’s citizenship. -The bill also added a provision to phase out childless adults over the course of one year rather than two. The provisions were added in order to address the core arguments the President made when he vetoed the previous S-CHIP legislation which enjoyed bi-partisan support in both the House and Senate. “I am proud of the House leadership and I am proud to fight with them on this issue,” Said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Our kids can’t be expected to compete in a global economy if they don’t have access to basic healthcare. All we need to do is find approximately 15 more votes in the House to insure 10 million children. I can’t think of a more important goal than that.”
10.16.2007	Letter cites NRLC stance in July calling provisions of original bill "Government-imposed involuntary euthanasia" Washington, D.C. -Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), along with nine other pro-life Democratic Congressional members have asked the National Right to Life Coalition (NRLC) to support overturning the President's veto on the State Children's Health Insurance Program (S-CHIP). The 10 members cited the support of various pro-life organizations including the Catholic Health Association as well as the NRLC's initial opposition to the CHAMP Act, which included the S-CHIP provisions. "The NRLC opposed the bipartisan S-CHIP bill on the surprising basis that a provision in the legislation that equalized payments between private Medicare plans and traditional Medicare would result in ‘government-imposed involuntary euthanasia' of senior citizens," said the Congressional members. "When that provision was eventually eliminated from the final S-CHIP bill, including the support of many pro-life Democrats, we expected the NRLC to join with other pro-life organizations and pro-life members of Congress to support the bill." "I'm a little astonished that NRLC hasn't come out in support of this bill," said Congressman Tim Ryan. "I can't imagine legislation that affirms life and holds to our shared values as much as covering 10 million children. I am urging the NRLC to rethink its position on this bill and come out strongly in favor of ensuring that our children can live long, productive and healthy lives." The full text of the letter can be read below: October 15, 2007 Wanda Franz, Ph.D President, National Right to Life Committee National Right to Life Committee 512 10th St. NW Washington, DC 20004 Dear Dr. Franz: As Democratic pro-life Members of Congress, we were disappointed and dismayed when the National Right to Life Committee (NRLC) announced in July that it was actively opposing the House-passed reauthorization of the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), which would provide health insurance to over 10 million low-income children. The NRLC opposed the bipartisan SCHIP bill on the surprising basis that a provision in the legislation which equalized payments between private Medicare plans and traditional Medicare would result in "government-imposed involuntary euthanasia" of senior citizens. When that provision was eventually eliminated from the final SCHIP bill, with the support of many pro-life Democrats, we expected the NRLC to join with other pro-life organizations and pro-life Members of Congress in supporting the bill's passage. Democratic pro-life Members of Congress are committed to promoting policies that prevent and reduce the number of abortions in America. Nearly 60% of abortions are obtained by women with incomes below 200% of the poverty level, and approximately 73% of women cite "inability to afford a child" as a reason for having an abortion The reauthorization of the SCHIP program will contribute to reducing the number of abortions performed in the U.S. As such, we believe that ensuring low-income, pregnant women and children have affordable healthcare is a key component to any sound policy approach for reducing the number of abortions in America. We remain deeply disappointed that the NRLC has not yet come out in support of the SCHIP bill. As the Catholic Health Association recently stated: We believe the most important pro-life thing the Congress can do right now is to insure that the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) is reauthorized. Children's lives and the lives of unborn babies depend on a strong SCHIP reauthorization. We hope you will join with us-and 10 million low-income children-in advocating for passage of this important pro-life legislation. We look forward to your reply. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
09.28.2007	(Washington, D.C.)—U.S. Representatives Tim Ryan (OH-17) and Jason Altmire (PA-4) today announced the agenda for the Tech Belt Forum scheduled for Monday, October 1, 2007, at Youngstown State University’s DeBartolo Stadium Club. The meeting will draw business, academic and foundation leaders from the Cleveland-Akron-Youngstown-Pittsburgh area to discuss ways to foster greater regional economic cooperation and to create a “tech belt” that will create jobs and promote growth in advanced services and industries in Northeast Ohio and Western Pennsylvania. Topics for discussion include supporting and expanding research and development efforts, creating the talent pool necessary to sustain technology-based businesses, supporting entrepreneurship and innovation, and attracting venture capital to the region. This event is by invitation only. The program will begin promptly at 8:30 a.m. The major agenda items are as follows: -John Austin, The Brookings Institute: The Vital Center: A Federal-State Compact to Renew the Great Lakes Region* -Remarks by Reps. Tim Ryan and Jason Altmire* -Press Availability* -Large Group Discussion: Technology Clusters: Today and in the Future, facilitated by Congressmen Tim Ryan and Jason Altmire -Small Group Discussions: Research and Development, Talent Attraction, Media and Marketing, Financial Investment, Entrepreneurship and Innovation -Norman Augustine, former CEO Lockheed Martin Corporation: Rising Above the Gathering Storm -Large Group Discussion: Looking Forward and Next Steps, facilitated by John Austin WHO: Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-17) Rep. Jason Altmire (PA-4) John Austin, The Brookings Institute WHAT: Tech Belt Forum WHERE: DeBartolo Stadium Club, Youngstown State University WHEN: Monday, October 1, 2007Program begins at 8:30 a.m.Congressional Remarks and Press availability at 9:30 a.m.
09.26.2007	Licensing agreement to use the Shell Coal Gasification Process is major step forward for Columbiana County facility (Washington, DC) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) and Congressman Charlie Wilson (OH-6) applauded the announcement of a new partnership forged between Baard Energy and Shell Oil for the Ohio River Clean Fuel’s (ORCF) coal to liquid plant. The agreement allows Baard and the ORCF’s coal-to-liquid plant to use Shell’s proprietary technology and cutting edge processes to turn coal into liquid fuels suitable for use in jets and trucks. “This is wonderful news for our community. This project when completed will have a major economic impact on Northeast Ohio” Ryan said. “Construction of the facility alone will result in 4,000 jobs over the four years it will take to complete. After the first full year of operations, the ORCF will generate $31,000,000 in income for our region.” “I’m excited to hear about this new partnership,” Congressman Charlie Wilson said. “Each step that brings us closer to a day when we open the Baard Energy Coal to Liquid plant in Wellsville is a welcome accomplishment. Anything I can do to help move this project forward is a top priority.” ORCF and the Columbiana County Port Authority are expected to construct the coal-to-liquid plant on approximately 650 acres of land next to the Port Authority’s intermodal facility. The facility will eventually use approximately six million tons of coal which will create additional jobs and economic development. In respect to the environment, the facility will use technology allowing it to remove mercury, capture and sequester up to 85 percent of the CO2, and the gasification process removes almost all acid gases.
09.07.2007	(Washington, DC) Today, the Democratic-led Congress passed the College Cost Reduction Act of 2007 which provides the single largest investment in higher education since the GI Bill. Despite objections from top Republican leaders in the House, the measure won overwhelming approval in both the House and Senate. The House approved the bill 292 to 97, while the Senate voted 79 to 12 to approve the bill. The White House has stated that President Bush intends to sign the bill. “This Congress has invested $20 billion dollars over the next five years to ensure that higher education remains an obtainable goal for average Americans,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “The only way our students will be able to compete in the global economy is if we make educating our students a top priority.” Under the legislation, the maximum value of the Pell Grant scholarship will increase by $1,090 over the next five years, reaching $5,400 by 2012, up from $4,050 in 2006 – thus restoring the purchasing power of the Pell Grant scholarship. Some students will see an immediate boost of almost $500 in their Pell Grant scholarship in the 2008-2009 school year alone. Roughly 5.5 million low- and moderate-income students would benefit from this increase. The bill will also cut interest rates in half on need-based student loans, from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent, over the next four years. Once fully phased-in, this will save the typical student borrower – with $13,800 in need-based student loan debt – $4,400 over the life of the loan. About 6.8 million students take out need-based loans each year.
09.06.2007	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan today issued the following statement on the death of Ohio Representative Paul Gillmor: “I am saddened by the death of my colleague Congressman Paul Gillmor, and I offer my condolences to his wife and children. Paul gave forty years of his life to public service as an Ohio State Senator and a United States Congressman. “I also knew Paul as a great fan of the Ohio State Buckeyes. The two of us were always talking about football and shared a deep love of the game. He served both his state and the country well and for that he will long be remembered.”
08.23.2007	Accolade from Inc. Magazine cites a 3,907% increase in revenue over a three-year period Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan congratulated Turning Technologies for being named America’s fastest growing privately held software company by Inc. magazine. The announcement comes only a few weeks after Entrepreneur magazine named the company the 7th fastest growing firm in the nation. “This is great news and another sign that our community has turned a corner,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Turning Technologies is a good local company that is committed to the valley and part of an exciting renaissance for our community. Its success benefits all of us.” With revenues of $20.6 million and a three year growth rate of 3,907.9 percent, Turning Technologies was 18th overall on the Inc. 500, Inc.’s annual list of the fastest growing privately held companies. The list this year was expanded to include the top 5000 firms in the nation.
08.06.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) introduced legislation on Friday to help small- and medium-sized American manufacturers compete in the increasingly competitive global marketplace. U.S. Senators George V. Voinovich (R-OH) and Herb Kohl (D-WI) are sponsoring the Senate companion bill. Today, almost all Fortune 500 companies use supercomputers and advanced computational science to solve complex technical problems, including the design and testing of new products. Yet, small- and medium-sized manufacturers do not have access to the same tools for product design and development. The Ryan bill in the House and Voinovich-Kohl in the Senate would help these smaller businesses develop better products and bring those products to the market as quickly as their competitors. “If we are serious about ensuring that all businesses and all Americans share in the prosperity that globalization can create, then we need to provide them with the tools necessary to take advantage of the new economy,” said Congressman Ryan. “These advanced super computer centers are going to allow the 12 million Americans employed by small and medium manufacturers to have the same computing power as big industry.” "We all know that intensifying global competition has caused a steady decline in our manufacturing economy,” Sen. Voinovich said. “No where is that more apparent than in states like Ohio and throughout the Midwest. Yet, we have tools that can help reverse the trend and refocus American manufacturing on the ingenuity that made this nation great. Our bill would help small and medium sized manufacturers by investing in the creation and dissemination of world class manufacturing technology to help them regain their edge quickly." “We’ve seen small and mid-sized manufacturers, which provide good paying, family-supporting jobs for skilled workers, dwindle in number and decline in productivity because they don’t have access to the same high-tech equipment that giant companies rely on,” Sen. Kohl said. “It makes sense to establish these regional high-tech centers where expertise can be shared and experience can be tapped – one-stop shopping for small businesses and manufacturers who want to make sure their enterprises thrive in an evolving marketplace.” Specifically, the bill would provide $25 million per year to create up to five Advanced Multidisciplinary Computing Software Centers at academic supercomputer sites, such as the Ohio Supercomputer Center at the Ohio State University. There are 18 sites that would be eligible for the grants. The Department of Commerce would be responsible for naming each center based on its expertise in various specialties, location and relationship with industry. The Advanced Multidisciplinary Computing Software Centers would: · Create a repository of advanced federally-funded software for businesses; · Work with independent software companies to transform the results of federal research into software that small and medium size businesses can use for high performance computing; and · Help businesses learn about the value of the technology and provide access to the new computational tools and techniques they need to compete. Research teams at the Centers would be required to test and validate new software for the benefit of businesses, and also be responsible for outreach to small and medium sized businesses and manufacturers who may be unfamiliar with the potential of the supercomputer applications. These research teams would be comprised of graduate and professional students at the academic Centers and would help to build a stronger workforce familiar with supercomputer applications.
08.02.2007	Forum Health and Humility of Mary to move into Cleveland Core Based Statistical Area (CBSA) Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan announced his successful efforts in passing legislation that will generate Forum Health and Humility of Mary hospital systems a combined total of approximately $4 million dollars annually. Congressman Ryan’s provision, which he was able to attach to a bill reauthorizing the state children’s health insurance program, reclassifies both hospital systems into the Cleveland-Akron-Elyria Core Based Statistical Area (CBSA). Currently, both hospital systems belong to the Youngstown-Warren-Boardman CBSA which includes rural hospitals in the Mercer area. Ryan’s provision alters the formula by which the federal government computes the hospitals’ Medicare reimbursements leading to significant revenue increases. “Our community sits in between two of the hottest healthcare markets in the nation and as they move towards working together to attract venture capital, investment and research grants I want to ensure that our hospitals are as competitive as possible,” said Congressman Ryan. “This is an essential step towards making sure we have a financially stable, forward-looking local healthcare system that can truly take advantage of the exciting changes happening in our region.” “When Congressman Ryan called me I got goose bumps,” said Bob Shroder, President and CEO of Humility of Mary Health Partners. “Our preliminary estimates show that this realignment will bring in an additional $2 million a year in revenues to Humility of Mary.” “This tells me that our government is working,” said Debbie Bindas, President of AFSCME Ohio Council 8. “Tim has been battling in Washington for us for over four years now and we are seeing the results.” “We’ve been working very closely with Congressman Ryan on the wage index issue and we very much appreciate his efforts to help our patients and our hospitals.” Said Dr. Keith Ghezzi, President and CEO of Forum Health. “We realize this effort is far from final, but it’s a very important step in the right direction.” Ryan’s provision is contained in the Children's Health and Medicare Protection (CHAMP) Act which passed the House of Representatives yesterday. The bill must be considered by the Senate and signed by the President.
08.01.2007	(Washington, D.C.) Congressman Ryan released the following statement about stalling tactics some Republicans are using on the floor in order to stall the CHAMP Act, including a reauthorization of the State Children Health Insurance Program which would provide health insurance for an additional five million children nationwide. “I appreciate that not all Republicans are trying to block a vote on children’s health insurance, but unfortunately the House Republican Caucus appears to have been taken captive by a fringe element within their party which doesn’t seem to care much about our children,” said Congressman Ryan. “Moreover, this right-wing fringe views the important work of this body as a mere game. This behavior is irresponsible, irrational and inexcusable.” Added Ryan, “Passage of the CHAMP act would provide an additional five million children with health insurance, which will better equip them to grow up healthy, strong and able to compete in the global economy. Furthermore, it will save us billions in the long run by providing preventative care rather than costly trips to the emergency room or expensive treatments for chronic illnesses when these children become adults.” Since January, the Democratic majority in the House has passed the first minimum wage increase in 10 years, the largest single increase in veterans funding in the history of the Veterans Affairs system, the largest expansion of college aid since the GI Bill, provided funds for 3,000 new border patrol agents, repealed $14 billion in subsidies to big oil companies and committed funds for 50,000 new police officers on the street. The Democratic leadership has committed to complete work on key legislation before the August recess which would fund the Department of Defense, pass an innovated farm bill which would raise food stamps for the first time in 11 years and an energy bill that invests in alternative fuels. “Just because House Republicans aren’t in power doesn’t mean that their fringe elements can just pick up their toys and go home. We have important work to do on behalf of the American people.”
07.25.2007	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan and Congresswoman Betty Sutton announced they have secured federal funding for a number of projects within Summit County in the Fiscal Year 2008 House Appropriations bills. “I am happy that I was able to secure this funding for the benefit of my constituents,” Sutton said. “These initiatives will do a great deal of good for our area, and I look forward to working with our local leaders on these and other priorities to continue moving our community forward.” “As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I am proud to have secured funding that will increase our quality of life,” said Ryan. “These funds will go towards good roads, innovative education programs, advanced manufacturing jobs, and for a healthy, safe community.” Sutton and Ryan obtained federal dollars for a number of projects in the funding bills passed by the House in recent weeks – the Energy & Water (E&W) Appropriations Bill and the Labor, Health & Human Service, Education Appropriations (Labor/HHS) Bill. The two lawmakers have also secured funding in the two spending bills to be considered by the House this week – the Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Bill and the Transportation, Housing & Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations Bill which was passed last night. They were also successful in procuring additional funding in the Defense Appropriations Bill which passed through the full Appropriations Committee today. Sutton was able to secure $1.2 million in the E&W Bill for the University of Akron’s (UA) innovative carbon-based fuel cell research, which will allow UA researchers to continue work on technology developed at the University to convert coal into electricity with little or no negative environmental impact. Sutton and Ryan together secured funding for another UA project - $200,000 for its STEM2 Education and Career Pathways Initiative in the Labor/HHS Bill. UA will use the funding to help link its faculty from six different colleges to work with primary and secondary educators and industry partners in designing career development programs that will maximize interest in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) careers. Sutton was able to secure $150,000 for the Akron Public Schools’ Math, Science and Technology Community Learning Center in the Labor/HHS Bill. The funding will be used for a distance learning classroom, technically-enhanced classrooms and science and math laboratories. Sutton also secured $300,000 for Children’s Hospital Medical Center of Akron for construction and renovation of Akron Children’s Neonatal Intensive Care Unit in the Labor/HHS Bill. The funding will be used to expand the Unit by 2,600 square feet and add additional private rooms for parents so they can be with and participate in the care of their newborns. Sutton secured $100,000 in funding for Stan Hywet Hall and Gardens’ programs for at-risk youth in the CJS Bill. The funding will serve approximately 1,000 students per year, mainly middle-school aged children. Sutton also was able to get $500,000 included in the THUD Bill for the Summit County Engineer for improvements to access roads leading into the Cuyahoga Valley National Park. Ryan secured another $300,000 for the Akron Chamber of Commerce for their “Regional Economic Strength through Professional Apprenticeship Program” (RESSPAP). The money will go towards RESSPAP’s goal of providing internships to Akron youth who want to stay in the local area rather than seek employment out of state. In addition, Ryan was successful in getting $50,000 for the Developing Options for Violent Emergencies (DOVE) program. DOVE will use this money in their ongoing efforts to provide specialized healthcare for victims of sexual assault, domestic violence and elder abuse or neglect. $100,000 secured by Ryan will go towards the East Akron Community House Youth Programs which will use the money to expand after school programs for at risk youth. Another $250,000 secured by Ryan will go towards widening and improving East Market Street in the City of Akron. In the Defense Appropriations bill, Sutton secured $1 million for the National Polymer Innovation Center at the University of Akron. The funding will be used in a joint research partnership between UA and the Department of Defense to address the need for polymer based components currently used in explosives and other volatiles. Sutton and Ryan together also were successful in getting $1 million in the Defense Appropriations bill for a joint alternative fuel cell power generation project between UA, Kent State University and Battelle. The project will address the technical barriers within the United States Air Force to deploying fuel efficient power generation technologies. Ryan was also able to procure a $1 million investment for Goodyear Tire and their Advanced Reinforced Materials and New Materials Research Project for Aircraft Tires. The Defense and CJS Appropriations Bills still need to be passed by the full House of Representatives. All House Appropriations bills also require passage in the Senate and signature by the President. Funding in these appropriations bills will be available for Fiscal Year 2008, which begins on October 1, 2007.
07.25.2007	Money procured in Defense Appropriations Bill brings total investments secured for district to over $22 million Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Tim Ryan announced an additional $10,500,000 in federal investments for the district contained in the Defense Appropriations Bill which passed through the full Appropriations committee today. The additional monies bring the total amount of federal investment for 17th district projects contained in House Appropriations Bills to $22,768,000. The projects range from research into new reinforced materials for tires to a new Center of Excellence at Youngstown State University which will research and develop cutting edge advanced manufacturing and imaging techniques in the Mahoning Valley. “These investments will help make our community a leader in advanced manufacturing,” Ryan said. “These initiatives will give us research and development money for cutting edge products our military needs and to spawn commercial applications which will create jobs.” A list of the projects that have been added to the appropriations bill for consideration of the full House of Representatives can be found below. In addition to House floor consideration, the bill still requires passage in the Senate and requires the President’s signature before becoming law. 1) Center of Excellence in Industrial Metrology & 3D Imaging Research, Youngstown State- $2,000,000 2) Research and Development of Variable Transmittance Visors, Alpha Micron- $1,000,000 3) Research and Development for Alternative Energy Fuel Cell Generation, Kent State - $1,000,000 4) Advanced Reinforced Materials and New Materials Research for Aircraft Tires, Goodyear Tire- $1,000,000 5) Research and Development for Secure Mobile MANET System- $1,500,000 6) Development of Feeding Tube for Battlefield Trauma Patients, Syncro Medical Systems, Canfield/Youngstown- $1,000,000 7) Research and Development of Tactical Metal Fabrication Systems (TacFab), Ajax Tocco, Warren- $3,000,000
07.20.2007	$647 million package funds programs aimed at reducing abortions Washington, D.C. – Representatives Tim Ryan (OH - 17) and Rosa L. DeLauro (CT - 3) announced the inclusion of the “Reducing the Need for Abortions Initiative” in the Fiscal Year 2008 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill. The $647 million abortion reduction package includes many of the provisions in the Ryan – DeLauro legislation, the Reducing the Need for Abortions and Supporting Parents Act (H.R. 1074). As members of the Subcommittee, the two played a critical role in drafting the Subcommittee’s abortion reduction initiative. “By funding this initiative, we are offering policy solutions that promote life and support parents beyond the birth of their new child. We are affirming the need to prevent unintended pregnancies and to help women with the economic pressures that may lead them to choosing an abortion,” said DeLauro. “And of all the important goals this initiative can help us reach, perhaps the most important is that it helps move us all forward on this issue – beyond the question of the legality of abortion and toward actually reducing the need for abortion and providing critical investments for families.” “It is our moral obligation to address those issues with which all sides agree. Whether you are pro-life like me or pro-choice like my friend Congresswoman DeLauro, the common ground we must build upon is our serious desire to reduce the rate of abortions,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “This package accomplishes that goal by increasing or creating funding streams for programs that have been shown to reduce both unintended pregnancies and abortions. I also want to thank Chairman Obey for his longstanding leadership on this important issue and his willingness to work with myself and Congresswoman DeLauro.” With $647 million in funding, the initiative will have the resources to make an impact on reducing the number of abortions in America. It is focused on the need to reduce abortion in our country, while also providing supports for new parents to strengthen their families. Below are the programs funded in the Reducing the Need for Abortions Initiative in the FY’08 Labor-HHS Appropriations Bill, which parallel initiatives found in the Ryan-DeLauro legislation. Preventive provisions: Access to contraceptive information and services is an important element of preventing pregnancy. In addition to several funding increases for programs that increase access to contraceptives, the bill also contains provisions that seek to reduce teen pregnancy -The first increase in more than 6 years for the Title X family planning program, -Teen Pregnancy Prevention Grants – a new Program at CDC – to support medically accurate, age-appropriate approaches to preventing teen pregnancies that include information about both abstinence and contraception, including the dissemination of science-based tools and strategies to prevent HIV, STD, and teen pregnancy. Supportive provisions: A number of the programs covered by the amendment are directly relevant to the needs of young women in difficult circumstances who may be deciding whether they are in a position to raise a child. These programs include the Maternal and Child Health Block Grant and the Healthy Start program, which help provide health care and other services for pregnant women and young children lacking other access to care. Other relevant programs include child care assistance, domestic violence prevention programs, and the variety of family supports financed through the Community Services Block Grant. All of these programs have been seriously eroded over the past several years, and the amendment begins to reverse that erosion. -The first increase in more than 6 years for the Child Care Development Block Grant -The first increase in more than 6 years for the After-school programs(21st Century Community Learning Centers) -New nurse home visitation program grants -Adoption awareness campaign at CDC -National Survey of Family Growth -Domestic violence prevention Additional provisions in the FY08 Labor-HHS Abortion Reduction Package: Beyond the provisions similar to those in the Ryan-DeLauro, the Labor-HHS bill also contains the following preventive and support programs aimed at reducing the number of abortions: -Job Corps Child Centers -New demonstration program within Job Corps to provide child care services to young parents in the program -An increase for Community Health Centers (which provide pre-natal and health care for low income women) -An increase for Maternal and Child Health Block Grant -Healthy Start (provides primary and preventive health care for mothers and infants) -Head Start -Runaway and Homeless Youth -Community Services Block Grant -Abstinence Education -Adolescent Family Life -Elementary and Secondary School Counselors
07.19.2007	Washington D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Niles), Congressman Ralph Regula (R-Medina) and U.S. Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) announced today that FormTech workers displaced by recent job losses will receive important job training and placement assistance from the United States Department of Labor. In June, the three lawmakers urged Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao to reexamine the circumstances of job loss, reverse the ruling of Employment and Training Administration (ETA), and grant them full eligibility for alternative trade adjustment assistance (ATAA) benefits. The Secretary complied and the ruling was reversed. “These vital ATAA benefits will help ensure that FormTech workers will get the training and job placement assistance they need to be successful and will help them find new work and secure the future for their families,” said Congressman Ryan. "The employees of FormTech worked hard and still lost their jobs because of complications from foreign trade. This is exactly why Congress set up the TAA system in the first place. Helping these workers get back on their feet quickly is the right – and smart – thing to do.” Senator Brown said. "I am pleased with the Secretary’s decision to extend this assistance package to the people at FormTech to help them get back on their feet and ease the transition to new employment,” said Regula. The ATAA program is a federal program that provides aid to workers who lose their jobs or whose hours of work and wages are reduced as a result of increased imports. The program extends benefits including training for employment in another job or career, income support, job search allowance, and relocation allowances. Qualified workers may quickly return to employment through a combination of these services.
07.18.2007	Money will pave way for construction of a coal to liquid facility- major economic impact (Washington, DC) Congressman Charlie Wilson’s (OH-6) and Congressman Tim Ryan’s (OH-17) hard work on Appropriations bills have led to $2.25 million to study various technologies for Ohio River Clean Fuel’s (ORCF) coal to liquid plant. The project, managed by ORCF’s parent company Baard Energy, would be a state of the art facility for Columbiana County which would turn coal into liquid fuels for trucks and store carbon emissions which are harmful to the earth. “Helping the development of this technology and helping to make this coal to liquid plant a reality will mean thousands of jobs for my district,” Wilson said. “It’s clear that we need alternative sources of energy in this country. It’s also clear we need to find a way to reduce carbon emissions,” Wilson said. “I’m thrilled we’re working on a way to do both in Columbiana County." “This project when completed will have a major economic impact on Northeast Ohio” Ryan said. “Construction of the facility alone will result in 4,000 jobs over the four years it will take to complete. After the first full year of operations, the ORCF will generate $31,000,000 in income for our region.” The Carbon Sequestration Scoping Study will receive $1,000,000. The study will seek to identify major geologic sites in the region in which carbon can be captured and stored in the ground in Ohio. In addition, $250,000 will be used to study the carbon life cycle of fuels derived from coal. And finally, an additional $1,000,000 will fund a Northeastern Ohio Pipeline study. The engineering study will examine how best to transport captured carbon and liquid hydrocarbons produced by coal. The facility will eventually use approximately six million tons of coal which will create additional jobs and economic development. In respect to the environment, the facility will use technology allowing it to remove mercury, capture and sequester up to 85 percent of the CO2, and the gasification process removes almost all acid gases. “We’re extremely proud of the work that the Congressmen have done on behalf of the Ohio River Clean Fuels project,” Said John Baardson, founder and CEO of Baard Energy, parent company to Ohio River Clean Fuels. “I look forward to the day we break ground on this project and bring jobs and energy to this region.”
07.18.2007	Congressmen call settlement on a contract crucial to our communities' health (Washington, DC) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) and Congressman Charlie Wilson (OH-06) called upon the Youngstown General Duty Nurses Association/Ohio Nurses Association and Forum Health to come to a settlement on a new contract before ONA members begin a general strike. Forum Health, which operates two health centers in Youngstown that are currently negotiating with the union, has said they may be forced to close Northside Medical Center should nurses take to the picket line. "It is crucial to the health and wellbeing of our community for the two sides to come to an agreement before time runs out," said Congressman Tim Ryan and Congressman Charlie Wilson in a joint statement. "We are asking each side to do this for the benefit of our community. Neither side may get everything they want, but the alternative would be devastating to us all. We stand ready to assist both sides to bring this to a responsible and productive end." In addition, Congressman Ryan committed to work for both the nurses and Forum Health on the House Appropriations Committee to provide the best healthcare possible at the Forum facilities and help alleviate some of the financial burden that has forced both sides into their stalemate. "I am confident that in the months and years to come, we can find solutions to our shared problems but we have to work together," said Congressman Tim Ryan. "We can't expect them to be solved overnight, but if we are all committed to ensuring that our community doesn't suffer, I will do everything in my power to make sure that we don't find ourselves back here again. We simply cannot afford the long term, negative consequences closing Northside Medical Center would cause."
07.17.2007	U.S. Reps. Steven C. LaTourette (R-Concord Township) and Tim Ryan (D-Niles) today announced that the House of Representatives has passed legislation to make Ashtabula, Trumbull and Mahoning counties part of the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC). The ARC designation will make the counties eligible for greater federal funding for economic development projects. The Appalachian Regional Development Act Amendments of 2007, H.R. 799, passed last night by a vote of 332-70 and will now move to the Senate for consideration. The bill adds 13 new counties in four states, including Ohio. LaTourette and Ryan have worked for several years to get the counties added to the region. The bill moved through the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, of which LaTourette is a senior member. "Being part of the Appalachian Regional Commission will allow these counties to tap into federal funding that is set aside just for the geographic area," LaTourette said. "Ashtabula and the other counties will now have a leg up on getting federal help for road, sewer, education and workforce training, health care and community revitalization projects." "This is another piece of the puzzle for the economic resurgence of our community," said Ryan. "For the past several years, my friend Congressman LaTourette and I have worked hard for inclusion in the Appalachian Regional Commission because the grants and funding it provides will allow Trumbull and Mahoning to tackle some of the most important issues facing our region." LaTourette said the federal government provides annual funding to only three regional development agencies in the entire United States, and the two newest ones are modeled after the highly successful ARC, which was created more then 40 years ago in 1965. The other two are: the Denali Commission, which was established in 1998 and helps remote areas of Alaska; and the Delta Regional Authority, which was established in 2000 and helps communities along the Mississippi River in eight states from Illinois to the Louisiana Coast. The Appalachian region is a 200,000-square-mile region that follows the Appalachian Mountains from southern New York to northern Mississippi. It includes all of West Virginia and parts of 12 other states: Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, Maryland, Mississippi, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia. Nearly 23 million people live in the 410 counties in the region. The following Ohio counties are already part of the Appalachian region: Adams, Brown, Clermont, Gallia, Highland, Jackson, Lawrence, Pike, Ross, Scioto, Vinton, Athens, Hocking, Meigs, Monroe, Morgan, Noble, Perry, Washington, Belmont, Carroll, Columbiana, Coshocton, Guernsey, Harrison, Holmes, Jefferson, Muskingum and Tuscarawas. Ashtabula, Mahoning and Trumbull counties are eligible to be added to the region because they meet economic standards and will be contiguous to other ARC counties.
07.16.2007	Award given to acquire safety equipment, install airfield guidance signs, rehabilitate apron (Washington, DC)- Congressman Tim Ryan is proud to announce the Federal Aviation Administration has granted the Western Reserve Port Authority and the Youngstown-Warren Regional Airport an award of $900,000. The money will go towards safety equipment, airfield guidance signs, rehabilitation for the apron and to remove obstructions. These funds are necessary to enhance safety at the airport. “I am proud to announce the $900,000 grant to the port authority and to Youngstown-Warren airport,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “I pledge to continue working for the airport’s needed resources but also look forward to working with the Port Authority on broader economic development projects throughout the Mahoning Valley.” Federal funds are being provided for the fourth construction phase to raise the height of the wildlife perimeter fence from eight to ten feet. The money will also be provided for the removal of obstructions to the Runway 32 approach. In addition, funds have been made available for airfield guidance signs for Runway 5 and to design and plan an overhaul of the general aviation apron which is littered with broken pavement debris.
07.12.2007	(Washington, DC)- Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) is proud to announce that $11,287,000 in federal investments have been appropriated for the 17th District. The money will go towards 27 separate education, health, transportation and public safety programs that will help improve the quality of life for residents of Northeast Ohio. “In order for us to attract and grow new jobs to our community, we need to show employers that our region’s leaders will be an active partner in the community. That means good roads, innovative education programs, a healthy community and a good infrastructure. I am committed to seeing our vision come together.” said Congressman Tim Ryan. A list of the projects that have been added to the appropriations bills for consideration of the full House of Representatives can be found below. In addition to House floor consideration, the three bills still require passage in the Senate and require the President’s signature before becoming law. 1) Trumbull County Lifelines, Warren, OH for behavioral health services.- $200,000 2) Paula and Anthony Rich Center for the Study and Treatment of Autism, Youngstown, OH for distance learning technology programs.- $440,000 3) Humility of Mary Health Partners, Youngstown, OH for health information technology. - $200,000 4) Easter Seals of Mahoning, Trumbull, and Columbiana Counties, Youngstown, OH for facilities and equipment.- $200,000 5) Kent State University/Trumbull County, Warren, OH for regional training through the Northeast Ohio Advanced Manufacturing Institute.- $250,000 6) Greater Akron Chamber, Akron, OH for a summer apprenticeship program for the youth.- $300,000 7) Youngstown City School District, OH for a Pathways to Building Trades Program in the Youngstown and Warren, OH school districts.- $225,000 8) Youngstown State University, Youngstown, OH for a pilot K-12 attention enhancement for learning project.- $100,000 9) Trumbull County Educational Service Center, Niles, OH for school robotics programs, which may include subgrants.- $185,000 10) University of Akron, Akron, OH to link regional school districts with industry to promote STEM academic career pathways (Sutton).- $150,000 11) Mahoning Avenue Improvements- $250,000 12) Bus Purchases for Portage Area Transit- $300,000 13) Kent State Multimodal Transport Facility- $200,000 14) Beatitude House in Warren- $200,000 15) Ohio Substance Abuse Interventions and Treatment Programs- $100,000 16) Law Enforcement Task Force for Mahoning County- $300,000 17) United Methodist Community Center PATH Program- $100,000 18) East Akron Community House Youth Programs- $100,000 19) Developing Options for Violent Emergencies (DOVE) Program- $50,000 20) Adult Probation Department, Community Integration and Socialization Program- $100,000 21) Lower Girard Lake Dam- $937,000 22) Ravenna Arsenal Infrastructure Project, from Section 594- $1,000,000 23) Parker Hannifin Corporation, Hybrid Hydraulic Drivetrain Program- $2,000,000 24) Struthers South Interceptor Sewer Project- $1,300,000 25) Brookfield Center North Sanitary Sewer- Phase II- $850,000 26) Ohio River Clean Fuels, LLC. Northeastern Ohio Pipeline Scoping Study- $1,000,000 27) CO2 Production and Emissions: A Lifecycle Comparison of FT Liquids and Fuels Derived from Crude Oil- R &D Clean Coal Power Imitative- $250,000
07.11.2007	College Cost Reduction Act will increase loan and Pell Grant aid at no cost to tax payers (Washington, DC) The U.S. House of Representatives passed the College Cost Reduction Act of 2007 today, providing the single largest investment in higher education since the GI Bill. The $18 billion investment over five years will go towards student loan and Pell Grant aid and will save students and families thousands of dollars over the life of the typical loan to a four-year school. "The rising cost of tuition at a four year university over the past few years has been unacceptable. We can’t even begin to be competitive in the global marketplace if our students and families find higher education unattainable," said Congressman Tim Ryan. "That’s why I am happy to announce that this bill will increase student Pell Grant aid $618,000,000 in Ohio and will increase student loan aid, saving our families an average of $4,320 for each student over the life of the student loan." The bill raises the maximum value of the Pell Grant scholarship by $500 by 2011. When combined with other increases passed by Congress this year, the maximum Grant will reach $5,200 by 2011, up from $4,050 in 2006. This will benefit over 5.5 million low- and moderate- income students across the nation, 224,615 of whom live in Ohio. The bill also cuts interest rates in half on need-based student loans, reducing the cost of those loans for millions of borrowers. One of the bill’s hallmarks is its encouragement and reward for students who go into public service careers. The bill provides tuition assistance for excellent undergraduate students who agree to teach in the nation’s public schools, loan forgiveness for college graduates that go into public service professions and provides loan forgiveness for first responders, police officers, fire fighters and nurses. The bill also increases federal loan limits so students don’t have to rely as heavily on costlier private loans and also creates new tuition cost containment strategies. The bill does all this without raising any taxes or creating any new spending. "I am proud to say that this historic bill is also a case study in fiscal responsibility. By focusing our attention on making lower- and middle- class families our priority instead of large corporate subsidies, we were able to create a bill that creates a significant financial impact on average Americans," said Congressman Ryan.
07.06.2007	Request meeting with the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops to discuss issue (Washington, DC) – Fourteen Members of Congress including Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) and Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) sent a letter to the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB) last Thursday, calling on the Bishops to increase their involvement in efforts to end the war in Iraq. In the letter, which was sent to Bishop William S. Skylstad, President of the USCCB and Bishop Thomas Wenski, International Justice and Peace Committee Chair, the Members of Congress ask for a meeting with representatives of the USCCB to discuss ways that Congressional Members and the clergy can work together to mobilize public action to end the war. "Throughout our nation’s history, Catholics have been at the forefront of the fight for social justice," said Congressman Tim Ryan. "We are proud to see that the USCCB feels as strongly on this issue as we do, and we are prepared to work closely with them to reach out to fellow members of the faith." "As Catholic Members of Congress we stand in unison with the Catholic Church in opposition to the War in Iraq. Yet to attain the ideal of peace, we must not only speak the words, we must take action and that is why we are reaching out to the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops to work with them to bring an end to the War in Iraq," said Congresswoman DeLauro. The full text of the letter can be read below: ### June 28, 2007 Most Reverend William S. Skylstad Bishop of Spokane President United States Conference of Catholic Bishops 3211 Fourth Street, NE Washington, DC 20017 Most Reverend Thomas Wenski Bishop of Orlando International Justice and Peace Committee Chair United States Conference of Catholic Bishops 3211 Fourth Street, NE Washington, DC 20017 Your Excellencies: As Catholic Members of Congress, we find ourselves increasingly disheartened with our country's presence in Iraq, with the manner in which the war is prosecuted, and with the many injustices that continue to occur there. We write today to urge you to help mobilize Catholic opinion on this, one of the most critical issues of our time. To that end, we respectfully request a meeting with representatives of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops to discuss ways in which we can work together in pursuit of our shared goal of ending the war in Iraq as soon as possible. We have taken great comfort in the prophetic words of many Catholic leaders, relied on them for inspiration during our deliberations, and welcomed them in helping shape policy. If we understand the Catholic tradition correctly, thoughtful Church leaders around the world do not believe that the war in Iraq meets the strict conditions for a just war or the high moral standards for overriding the presumption against the use of force. We agree and seek an end to this injustice. Our concerns are rooted in both the political realm and in our faith and manifest in our efforts to enact legislation that will bring an end to this war. Pope John Paul II framed the moral question well when he said: "When, as in Iraq in these days, war threatens the fate of humanity, it is even more urgent to proclaim with a strong and decisive voice that peace is the only path for building a society which is more just and marked by solidarity. Violence and weapons can never resolve the problems of man." We recall with no small measure of sadness the failed efforts of His Eminence Pio Cardinal Laghi, sent in March 2003 as the Special Envoy of the Pope, to plead with President Bush for a renewed effort at negotiations before this war began, or simply for a delay in commencing hostilities because of the personal intervention of the Holy Father. Though treated politely, Laghi was rebuffed even as he provided the administration with valuable insights from the Iraqi bishops’ conference and Vatican staff in Iraq. Iraq and its people would be in a far different place today had President Bush heeded the advice of Cardinal Laghi and Pope John Paul II. In our own education in the faith, we find the testimony of the Scriptures compelling, and although we have no illusions about the complexities of our current situation in Iraq, we have come to believe that peace cannot simply exist as an ideal – our efforts must be accompanied by actions as we embrace the teachings of peace and justice. We have deliberated with great care, and our consciences calls us to act with conviction and compassion. Throughout our nation’s history Catholics have been at the forefront of the fight for social justice. Now, at another critical moment, we respectfully urge the USCCB to join with us in mobilizing support for Congress’ efforts to end the war. Sincerely, Rep. Tim Ryan
06.29.2007	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Charlie Wilson (OH-6) and Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), a member of the Appropriations Committee, today announced a $231,000 federal investment for the entrepreneurship development initiative "Salute to Success" in Mahoning County. The federal funds were secured in the Financial Services Appropriations bill. "Small business is the engine that makes our economy run," Wilson said. "Small businesses provide jobs and good jobs mean secure families in Ohio." The Youngstown - Warren region has had the fewest startups per capita in Ohio and the highest failure rate of new businesses over the last seven years. Minority business startups in the Mahoning Valley are among the fewest in the nation. The "Salute to Success" will support the growth and development of private business through a business entrepreneurship incubator. Incubator clients will have access to a full complement of business and administrative services, networking, mentoring and peer support including business referrals and access to risk capital sources. "I believe that incubators like this are key to bringing good jobs back to our community," said Ryan. "By providing our entrepreneurs with the tools they need in an incubator setting, they can focus on building their business, increasing market share and generating revenue. In addition, incubators foster a creative climate which allows business owners to learn from one another." This funding is contingent upon its passage in the Senate and a signature by the President.
06.29.2007	$231,000 for Youngstown Business Incubator and $500,000 for Scott Street Sewer Project in Newton Falls (Washington, DC) -- Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), a member of the House Committee on Appropriations, announced that he has secured federal funding in the Financial Services Appropriations bill and the Interior Appropriations bill for two Mahoning Valley projects. The Youngstown Business Incubator is slated to receive $231,000 in the Financial Services Appropriations Bill and the Scott Street Phase II Sewer Project in Newton Falls is slated to receive $500,000 in the Interior Appropriations funding bill. The Financial Services Appropriations bill and the Interior Appropriations bill were among the first appropriations bills to be passed on the House floor. The two bills still require passage in the Senate and require the President’s signature before becoming law. "I am very proud to announce a significant investment of $231,000 for the Youngstown Business Incubator’s new Tech Block project, which will help Ohio’s premier business incubator expand. The Incubator is developing innovative products and creating jobs in downtown Youngstown." said Congressman Ryan. "In addition, I am also happy to announce that phase two of the Scott Street Sewer Project has received $500,000 for continued construction of a modern wastewater system. I know one of the most pressing issues in our community has been sewer problems. Step by step and bill by bill we are beginning to alleviate the problem." The $231,000 to YBI will go towards the next phase of their expansion project which includes the redevelopment of the 17,357 square foot Semple building. This phase will contribute to the creation of as many as 105 full time positions that pay an average of $60,000 annually, the project will also renew and revitalize the city’s urban center. The $500,000 for the Scott Street sewer project is the second phase of a sanitary sewer system in the Scott street area. This area has been declared an "unsewered area of concern" by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency. The current Home Sewage Treatment Systems in use by residents are failing and sanitary sewer lines must be constructed here to alleviate hazardous water pollution problems. "Scott Street in Newton Falls is one of Trumbull County’s most important sanitary sewer projects. The funding of $500,000 obtained by Congressman Tim Ryan will go along way toward reducing the cost of the sanitary sewer line for the home owners of Newton Falls," said Trumbull County Commissioner Paul Heltzel. "We appreciate Congressman Ryan’s help getting funds. We have an aggressive sewer program right now are 100% committed to fixing our ailing system," said Trumbull County Commissioner Frank Fuda. said Trumbull County Commissioner Frank Fuda. said Trumbull County Commissioner Frank Fuda. said Trumbull County Commissioner Frank Fuda. said Trumbull County Commissioner Frank Fuda. "I appreciate Congressman Ryan’s efforts in working with us to secure the money for this important project. Last time I was in Washington, D.C., he made a commitment to do his best, and its good to see him bring money back to the district." said Trumbull County Commissioner Dan Polivka.
06.27.2007	Washington D.C. – Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Niles), Congressman Ralph Regula (R-Medina) and Ohio Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) sent a joint letter to Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao late Monday on behalf of Canal Fulton-based FormTech Industries employees who recently lost their jobs as a result of increased imports of foreign products. The letter urged the Secretary to reexamine the circumstances of job loss, reverse the ruling of Employment and Training Administration (ETA), and grant them full eligibility for alternative trade adjustment assistance (ATAA) benefits. "It is vital that these workers be eligible for AATA benefits so that they may get the training and job placement assistance they need to be successful and move Ohio’s economy into the 21st century," said Congressman Ryan. "There is nothing more disheartening than losing a job. Assistance rejected by the Department of Labor just adds insult to injury. Financial assistance and training programs are made to help workers have a soft landing and get them a decent job as soon as possible. It is imperative that we support Ohio workers while we work to revamp U.S. trade policy," Senator Brown said. "Families in Northeast Ohio have been hit particularly hard by the job loss resulting from foreign imports. The displaced workers at FormTech deserve the financial and job training benefits the ATAA program offers to help them get back on their feet," said Regula. The TAA program is a federal program that provides aid to workers who lose their jobs or whose hours of work and wages are reduced as a result of increased imports. The program extends benefits including training for employment in another job or career, income support, job search allowance, and relocation allowances. Qualified workers may quickly return to employment through a combination of these services. The text of the letter follows. # # # The Honorable Elaine Chao Secretary of Labor 200 Constitution Ave, NW Washington, DC 20210 June 25, 2007 Re: Employment and Training Administration case number 61281 Dear Secretary Chao: We strongly support providing the former employees of FormTech Industries, LLC (Form Tech) of Canal Fulton, Ohio alternative trade adjustment assistance (ATAA), as outlined in the amended Trade Adjustment Act (TAA) of 1974. Accordingly, we support the appeal submitted by Jim Stanton on June 15, 2007, Financial Secretary of UAW Local 1112, Warren, Ohio on behalf of the FormTech workers to reverse the ruling of Employment and Training Administration (ETA) case number 61281. The current case ruling finds that the demand for FormTech products was not replaced by directly-competitive imports, and thus FormTech workers do not qualify for ATAA eligibility. However, we are confident that if the case is reexamined and all the facts properly considered, the Department of Labor will find that the loss of the FormTech workers’ jobs was a direct result of an increase in directly-competitive imports. Getrag USA, the principle customer of FormTech, replaced its demand for machine parts with imports manufactured by Samick THK Company Limited, a South Korean firm. The change in Getrag’s supply contract from FormTech, a domestic supplier, to Samick, an import supplier, was the sole reason the FormTech workers were separated. Accordingly, these workers should be eligible for ATAA benefits, as the loss of their jobs was a direct result of an increase in directly-competitive, imported machine parts. We encourage the Department of Labor to grant the appeal filed on behalf of the FormTech workers. If an appeal cannot be granted, we encourage the Department of Labor to reexamine the circumstances of these workers by opening a new ETA case. We support the FormTech Workers and their full eligibility for ATAA benefits. Thank you for your swift attention to this matter, and we look forward to your reply. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
06.18.2007	Hails increases to key programs which will secure our borders, airports and seaports (Washington, DC) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), a member of House Committee on Appropriations, applauded the House of Representatives for passing H.R. 2638, the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill today. The bill, which Congressman Ryan voted for includes provisions that will increase border patrol agents to 17,819 and make it easier to travel to destinations in the Western Hemisphere. "The War in Iraq has made America more vulnerable to attack." said Congressman Ryan. "That is why I am especially proud of the increase in funds for border protection and even more money to hire 3,000 additional Border Patrol Agents. We need to secure our borders, airports and seaports and this is a big step in that direction." In addition to increases in border protection, the Homeland Security Appropriations bill requires that Immigration and Customs Enforcement obtain information, on a monthly basis, from correctional facilities throughout the U.S. to identify aliens who are subject the deportation. Upon serving their sentence the identified aliens will be deported immediately. The bill also included a one-year prohibition on funds used to implement the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, which has created a backlog in passport requests, making it much harder for Americans to travel abroad. ###
06.11.2007	Grant to provide money for upgraded weather equipment (Washington, DC) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) is pleased to announce that the Federal Aviation Administration has awarded Portage County Regional Airport a grant for new equipment. The $279,000 project will go towards equipment that will monitor local weather conditions and allow pilots to access that information from their planes. "I am pleased to announce this grant today as one more step we are taking in the direction of modernizing and expanding the Portage County Regional Airport," said Congressman Tim Ryan. "This equipment will make it easier for pilots landing here at Portage to get real-time weather information which will make it easier and safer to operate at the airport." In addition to acquiring the system, the $279,000 grant will be used for other needs involving the system’s installation. The grant will go towards procuring the land needed for development, as well as the construction necessary to complete the project.
06.07.2007	Bill provides record increases in Veterans’ health spending, oversight (Washington, DC) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17), a member of House Committee on Appropriations, applauded the Committee for passing the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies appropriations bill yesterday. The bill, which Congressman Ryan voted for and which passed by a vote of 56-0, includes a $6.7 billion increase over FY 2007 levels for the Department of Veterans Affairs for claims processing, medical care and facility improvements at places like Walter Reed Medical Center. The bill also includes $4.4 billion for veterans’ health care and creates new programs aimed at combating post-traumatic stress disorder and increased assistance for homeless veterans. "This bill is proof that Congress is 100 percent committed to supporting our troops—not just when they are in the field, but when they come home as well." said Congressman Ryan. "Our veterans put their lives on the line for us, and they deserve first class medical care." Other projects covered in the bill include$2.9 billion for mental health and substance abuse, $130 million for assistance for homeless vets, $4.1 billion for medical facilities and $76.5 million to increase the size of the Inspector General’s office tasked with ensuring Veteran’s Administration monies are spent wisely. A bulleted list of the programs can be found below. KEY INVESTMENTS DEPARMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS: $43.2 billion, $6.7 billion above 2007 and $3.8 billion over the President’s request for veterans medical care, claims processing personnel, and facility improvements. Veterans Health Administration, $37.1 billion, $2.5 billion over the President’s request and $4.4 billion over 2007 for veterans medical care. The Veterans Health Administration estimates they will treat more than 5.8 million patients in 2008 including more than 263,345 veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan, 54,000 more than fiscal year 2007. • Medical Services: $28.9 billion, $1.7 billion above the President request and $3.4 billion above 2007 to improve access to medical services for all veterans. o New Initiatives to Improve Access to Vital Services: $600 million for new initiative for mental health and PTSD, including funding to ensure the five Level I Polytrauma Centers and the three Centers of Excellence for Mental Health and PTSD are fully operational in 2008. These Centers treat the signature injuries for veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan, including traumatic brain injury, and provide vital services to these veterans and their families as they transition back to their communities. o Mental Health and Substance Abuse: $2.9 billion, $100 million over 2007, matching the President’s request for specialty mental health care and $429 million, $70 million above the President’s request and $72 million above 2007 for the Substance Abuse Program. The President’s request did not even provide for inflation within the Department’s Substance Abuse Program and cut the number of psychiatric inpatient beds. o Assistance for Homeless Vets: $130 million, $23 million above the President’s request and $38 million over 2007 for the homeless grants and per diem program to help care for an 2,300 additional homeless veterans. o Health Care Sharing Incentive Fund: a minimum of $15 million, to be used for joint programs with the Department of Defense to increase research, improve access to care, and ensure a more seamless transition for our veterans, particularly in the areas of greatest concern for veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan: traumatic brain injury, post-traumatic stress disorder, increased survival of severe burns, and amputation. • Medical Administration: $3.6 billion, $193 million above the President’s request and $458 million above 2007 to ensure the efficient operation of the Department’s health care system. • Medical Facilities: $4.1 billion, $508 million above the President’s request and $530 million above 2007 for on-going maintenance and renovations of existing facilities to address identified shortfalls and to ensure the Department’s facilities remain capable of delivering world class medicine. The Department currently estimates a maintenance backlog of over $5 billion. • Medical and Prosthetic Research: $480 million, $69 million above the President’s request and $66 million above 2007 for research to improve the quality of life for injured and aging veterans. The increase will help to attack the emerging issues facing those returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. Extended Care Facilities: $165 million, $80 million above 2007, for grants to states for construction and modification of extended care facilities. The funding level will satisfy all currently identified life/safety needs and still provide funding for construction of three new facilities. General Operating Expenses: $1.6 billion, $127 million over the President’s request and $117 million above 2007 to enable the Department to hire roughly 1,100 additional claims processors to work-down the backlog of benefits claims and to reduce the time to process new claims. The most recent VA Quarterly Status Report estimates that nearly 400,000 claims have exceeded the 160 day goal for processing. Information Technology, $1.9 billion, $645 million above 2007, matching the President’s request to improve the health records system to help ensure that medical information follows patients as they transition from the Department of Defense health system to the VA health system. Phone and Web Assistance: $5 million is included within General Operating Expenses for the Department to establish a toll-free telephone number and web page to make it easier for veterans to get assistance and provide feedback. Inspector General: $76.5 million, $5.9 million above 2007 and $3.9 million over the President’s request, reversing a three-year decline in staffing for the Office. This funding will enable the Office to hire 50 people to provide necessary oversight of departmental operations, ensuring that resources are spent wisely and that veterans receive the quality care they deserve. OTHER IMPORTANT POLICY ITEMS Increased Oversight: Requires multiple reports how funds are spent and additional Congressional notifications and approvals of transfers and reprogrammings. Future Planning: Directs the Congressional Budget Office to report on future funding needs for the Department to provide medical care. The Administration’s budget predicts that the Veterans Health Administration will need less funding in future years. Improving Records: Requires VA’s Electronic Medical Records be interoperable with the Department of Defense’s medical records system. Psychiatric Care: Prevents inpatient beds from being decreased at facilities with a waiting list for inpatient psychiatric care.
06.05.2007	Calls for President to honor Governor Ted Strickland’s Request for personal assurances on troop equipment, training (Washington, DC) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) sent a letter to the President today reiterating Governor Ted Strickland’s request for personal assurances that Ohio National Guard Troops being activated receive the training and equipment necessary to perform their mission. Below is the letter. June 4, 2008 President George Bush The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Bush: I write today to follow up on the letter sent by Governor Ted Strickland on May 26, 2007 addressing the second alert order received by the Ohio National Guard in less than two months. I am disappointed that you have yet to respond to the concerns that the Governor stated, and I echo his request for an answer to these very basic questions. I stand firm with the Governor and his request that you give personal assurances that every Ohio soldier will have the most up-to-date equipment for the mission they will be asked to perform. This includes body armor, up-armored humvees and other vehicles they need to operate effectively. I also stand firm with the Governor and his request that you give your personal assurances that every Ohio soldier be given appropriate training for their mission. The men and women of the 37th Infantry Brigade Combat Team as well as the 838th Military Police Company based in Youngstown deserve to know that they are not being sent into an increasingly volatile situation without the equipment and training they need to stay as safe as possible in a forward operating area. Although you and I have disagreed on the course of this war from the beginning, it is my sincere hope that we can, at the very least, find common ground on keeping our soldiers safe. In the four years that I have represented Ohio’s 17th Congressional District, I have voted for billions of dollars in funds for equipment, training, and improved healthcare for our troops. I have voted to ensure that our Veterans Affairs system has the resources it needs to provide for the more than 25,000 wounded warriors that this misguided war has created and for monies to ensure that our troops are not left stranded in a hostile environment. Mr. President, giving us these assurances is the bare minimum you can do if supporting our troops is truly a priority for you. Throughout his career, Governor Strickland has been a tireless advocate for the health and wellbeing of our troops, and I urge you to respond immediately to the Governor and me in our call to provide the citizens of Ohio with the guarantee that the Federal Government will honor their sacrifice and provide our troops with the training and equipment they need. Across the country, the National Guard is spread dangerously thin and readiness levels are at historic lows. It is my sincere hope that you will join with us to ensure that our men and women in uniform are protected, and that they are brought home as soon as possible. I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Congressman Tim Ryan
05.25.2007	Says President’s Game Plan has Failed (Washington, DC) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) voted against the White House’s compromise with Congress that stripped the Iraq Supplemental of its timelines for withdrawal today. Rep. Ryan cited his continuing commitment to bringing our troops home and his refusal to allow the administration to continue its failed policies in Iraq. Congressman Ryan remarked, "I voted against this compromise because I support our troops. It has become clear that the only real way to support them now is to bring them home as soon as possible." After consulting with local vets and citing the $378 billion price tag for the war so far, Congressman Ryan believed it was irresponsible to give President Bush another blank check. "I share the anger and frustration of my constituents," Said Congressman Ryan. "I can’t possibly get behind giving the President another $120 billion without enforceable benchmarks and a timetable for withdrawal. If President Bush was a football coach, he would be fired by now…his game plan has failed." Said Congressman Ryan. "I can’t possibly get behind giving the President another $120 billion without enforceable benchmarks and a timetable for withdrawal. If President Bush was a football coach, he would be fired by now…his game plan has failed." Congressman Ryan also pledged to fight for enforceable benchmarks in upcoming legislation on the war. In July, Congress is scheduled to take up the Department of Defense Appropriations bill and in September, another Iraq supplemental will need to be passed in order for the war to continue in fiscal year 2008. "I plan to use my position on the Appropriations committee to ensure that these future bills slated to fund the Department of Defense and Iraq contain provisions that will end this horrible conflict. I will fight to end this war by any means necessary." . ###
05.14.2007	Pledges to Live on $3 of Food per Day for One Week (Washington, DC) Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) will participate in the Food Stamp Challenge, an effort aimed to raise awareness of the hunger problem faced by 38 million Americans nationwide, including 13 million children. The Food Stamp Program provides over 25 million people living at or below the poverty line with a means to afford basic foodstuffs. Congressman Ryan remarked, "I’m taking this challenge because of the 1,000,000 Ohioans who live day-to-day, unsure whether they’ll have the money to buy groceries, and still be able to pay the electric bill. The Food Stamp Program provides an essential service to these families, and helps to ensure that no family ever has to make that choice." Food Stamp Program participation has skyrocketed. In 2000, 609,717 Ohioans received aid each month. By 2005, that number had increased to 1,007,172, an increase of 65.2 percent. Yet in the past decade, the value of food stamps has been stagnant and today has roughly the same amount of purchasing power as it did in 1996. The average eligible Ohio family receives $617 per month, breaking down to $1.06 per person for every meal. The Food Stamp Challenge duplicates these figures, allotting each participant $3 worth of food every day for one week. Congressman Ryan is joining with Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-03) and Congresswomen Jo Ann Emerson (MO-08) and Janice Schakowsky (IL-09) to participate in the Food Stamp Challenge, which is being sponsored by the House Hunger Caucus. ###
05.08.2007	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) will join the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade for tomorrow’s hearing on currency manipulation. The courtesy being given to Congressman Ryan for his hard work as a leader in the House on currency legislation will afford him full sub-committee privileges tomorrow. "Currency manipulation is one of the top issues preventing fair trade among honest partners and I look forward to asking the panels pointed questions on how we hold those trading partners accountable." Temporary participation on a committee is a way of giving Members who have a specific knowledge on an issue an opportunity to contribute to an important debate. Congressman Ryan has led the debate over currency manipulation since joining his friend, Congressman Duncan Hunter (CA-52), in introducing the "Fair Currency Act of 2005." Congressman Ryan went on the say, "I would like to thank my good friend, Chairman Sander Levin of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade for this opportunity. I am honored and I plan to make the most of it. I believe that our trading partners see the writing on the wall. They understand that this Congress is committed to taking action on the unfair trade balance between our nations and will try to pressure the Administration to stop us. Legislation on this issue is good policy. We are not protectionists; all we ask is for a level playing field." ###
05.04.2007	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) today gave a speech at the 37th commemoration of Kent State. The speech calls for our nation to heal but also commit ourselves to change once the War in Iraq ends. Below is a copy of the Congressman's statements as delivered: On May 4th 1970 a place whose mission is to create, became a place of destruction. A university that began as an institution to promote knowledge became a symbol of the ignorance and futility of war. Thirty seven years ago, four students were cut down in the prime of their lives on this spot, standing up for what they believed in, and against an unjust war. Since that day, Kent State grew, and continued with its mission, yet the irony is that America never did. Now we find ourselves fighting another unjust and questionable war, once again trying to make sense of the lives lost, those brave men like Casey Sheehan and Augie Schroeder who have served our nation honorably, and through no fault of their own, supporting an order handed down from an administration trying to achieve a political goal rather than confront a real threat to our way of life. I am here today to pay my respects to those who have fallen in Iraq, those who fell in Vietnam, and those four students who died on this hallowed ground, so that we may never find ourselves in this position ever again. Some men and women protect and defend the constitution as a member of the military. But for many, like us and the four slain students, we must fulfill our obligations in one of the most noble positions our society has: Citizen. And never is this position more demanding than in a time of war. The parallels between Iraq and Vietnam are many. Both misguided and unjust wars, both led by stubborn Presidents and both raged forward against the will of the American people. Where these two wars differ though, is that history has yet to record how we handled the post-Iraq period. I believe we have a great opportunity for change. Just because we've had an unjust war doesn't mean we have to have an unjust peace. The greatest tragedy of the Kent State massacre, of the Vietnam era as a whole is that our nation never healed. Our veterans from that terrible war still suffer from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, and are scarred by the indelible wounds of an experience so horrible that many were never able to recover. Our nation as a whole suffers the same wounds, wounds that never fully healed and were reopened on that fateful day in 2003 when we chose to turn our backs on the lessons of the past and embarked on a misguided venture in Iraq. Vietnam has clung to our public discourse for over forty years. It defined a generation and its politics to the point that Vietnam defined the presidential election of 2004. The protests at Kent had one clear message: Change. Change our policy in Vietnam. Change the role of the U.S. in the world. And change the politics of manipulation. 30 years later, we still long for that change. If we are to honor those slain students, it will be, as Lincoln said, "not by what we say here, but by what we do here." Our actions must speak louder than our rhetoric. We must draw inspiration from Allison Krause, Jeffrey Glenn Miller, Sandra Lee Scheuer and Willam Knox Schroeder. We must get courage from Cindy Sheehan, Rosemary Palmer and mothers like them all over the country. And we must set the course so the next generation does not repeat the mistakes of the past. We must be vigilant in the next few months if we are going to end this occupation of Iraq. It took 31 acts of Congress to end the war in Vietnam; we must not allow it to take that long to end Iraq. We must organize and pull in groups of citizens who agree with our position, but have yet to communicate with their elected officials. We must go to the street in a non-violent way and we must continue to push for a firm timeline for withdrawal. We must start inundating elected officials with letters and phone calls and let them know that this country is a democracy and we intend to keep it that way. And once we end this war, we can begin the work of reclaiming our country. Of getting back to the day when liberty and justice for all wasn't just used as a punch line. Where the casualties of war aren't just statistics or collateral damage. In many ways we have repeated the mistakes of Vietnam, but what we can not do is repeat the mistakes of post-Vietnam. We must reexamine our views of peace. As President Kennedy said in his speech at American University, "Our problems are manmade-therefore, they can be solved by man and man can be as big as he wants. No problem of human destiny is beyond human beings. Man's reason and spirit have often solved the seemingly unsolvable and we believe they can do it again." Our post -Iraq political and economic approach must be different. The entire way we interact with the world must change after Iraq. Our cynical and destructive political approaches must change. We can not continue with an economic system that preys on poor countries and uses workers, here and abroad, as pawns in some global economic chess match. We can not use and abuse countries for their natural resources and disregard their natural rights. Our challenge, and the challenge of our next generation, is to create a political climate that expects peace and despises war. That expects justice and is intolerant of intolerance. That expects hope and ignores cynicism. So, let us not repeat the sins of our fathers. Let us, "teach our children well," and through our actions and leadership post-Iraq, "let them know we love them."
04.23.2007	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) today urged Secretary of the Department of Commerce, Mr. Carlos M. Gutierrez and Ambassador Susan C. Schwab, U.S. Trade Representative, to pressure China to extend its roll-back of tax rebates on steel products to include piping and tubing. While the roll backs announced by China are welcomed, the Congressman has asked that the Department of Commerce do more to get China to comply with its WTO responsibilities. "China’s policies on steel as well as other key sectors of its economy are completely at odds with the WTO and its responsibilities as a trading partner. Coupled with its misalignment of the Yuan, these policies represent unfair trade practices that must be addressed," said Congressman Ryan. "I am calling on China to stop using these currency and tax games, and tear down these trade barriers." Congressman Ryan, along with Congressman Duncan Hunter (R-CA), introduced the Fair Currency Act of 2007, also known as the Ryan-Hunter bill, earlier this year in an attempt to address Chinese currency misalignment. The bill, which has garnered attention by key legislators tasked with setting trade policy, has 80 co-sponsors in the House. The bill has gained momentum in recent weeks and has many regulators on both sides of the Pacific talking about the current trade relationship between China and the United States. Congressman Ryan went on the say, "I believe that China sees the writing on the wall. China understands that this Congress is committed to taking action on the unfair trade balance between our two nations and is trying to do whatever it takes to keep us from taking real and substantial measures. I call upon the Department of Commerce and Ambassador Schwab to put pressure on China to do what is right in this case." Attached is a copy of the letter sent from Congressman Ryan to Secretary Gutierrez and Ambassador Schwab. April 23, 2007 Secretary Gutierrez U.S. Department of Commerce 1401 Constitution Ave., NW Washington, DC 20230 Dear Secretary Gutierrez, I am writing because of my serious concerns about China’s tax rebates for steel exports as well as currency exchange-rate misalignment. I believe that China’s tax and currency policies have a negative impact on working people in America and we must take action. As you know, on April 11, 2007, China’s Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation announced significant reductions in tax rebates provided by the Chinese government on various steel product exports. These changes impact a total of 83 steel product categories. For certain products, such as hot rolled coil, the tax rebate has been eliminated completely; for other products, such as cold rolled coil, the tax rebate has been significantly reduced. However, the Chinese government has elected to continue a 13% tax rebate for exports of steel tube products. This is unacceptable. While I am pleased to see that China is beginning to do the right thing by reducing the levels of export subsidies, I believe that more needs to be done. The manufacture of steel pipe and tube products is a significant source of jobs and income within the U.S. steel industry. It is critical that this segment of the industry be treated fairly on a level playing field. While I understand that it is not within your authority to modify Chinese tax law, I also realize that you have on-going relationships and interactions with the Chinese government. I am writing to urge you to encourage China to expand their recent reductions in export tax relief to include the elimination of tax rebates for pipe and tube exports. This step by the Chinese would go a long way toward demonstrating a genuine interest in promoting fair trade with the U.S. In addition, I am writing with hope that you are working with China to address the critical issue of China’s significantly misaligned currency exchange-rate. As you know, this misalignment is, in effect, a 40 percent subsidy provided by the Chinese government on all exports. It is critical that this issue also be addressed in order to ensure the U.S. manufacturing industry is treated fairly on a level playing field. I believe that these are critical issues and represent an urgent matter. China’s policies on steel as well as other key sectors of its economy are completely at odds with the World Trade Organization and its responsibilities as a trading partner. Coupled with their misalignment of the Yuan, these policies represent unfair trade practices. I strongly urge you to undertake every effort at your disposal to compel the Chinese to act in a way that does not unfairly hurt American manufacturers and their workers. I look forward to hearing your plans to address these issues head on with the Chinese government. Respectfully, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
04.18.2007	Calls for regional summit of business, government leaders to discuss next steps (Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) applauded BioEnterprise and the Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse for their new approach to attract venture capital to the region’s emerging medical manufacturing and bio-tech industries. The effort on the part of two medical consortiums comprising businesses, hospitals and Universities in Northeast Ohio and Western Pennsylvania represents a new way to look at regionalization. Congressman Ryan sees this as the first step to creating a viable "Tech Belt" encompassing the Cleveland, Akron, Youngstown and Pittsburgh metropolitan areas. "Our region has been linked for over 100 years, first as the Steel Belt, then as the Rust Belt. This is our chance to emerge as the Tech Belt," said Congressman Tim Ryan. "I believe very strongly in the new direction BioEnterprise and the Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse is taking. As a next step, I am calling a regional summit of leaders from local industries, elected officials and economic development organizations to create a regional model for economic advancement that will be competitive in the global marketplace." There are now over 700 bioscience companies in the Cleveland-Akron-Youngstown-Pittsburgh corridor employing more than 25,000 people. Over $1 billion a year in National Institute of Health and industry research funding flows through the region. Since 2005 over $350 million in venture capital has led to new medical device, biopharmaceutical and health care startups. "We must commit the time, energy, resources and political leadership necessary to compete in the global economy. What BioEnterprise and Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse are doing should serve as a model for cooperation for our entire region. I pledge to work with my congressional colleagues in Ohio and Pennsylvania on ways we can build consensus around a vision for the future. We must make the most of this opportunity to bring good jobs, increased investment and a better quality of life to our communities."
03.29.2007	Budget Proposal in House Contains Largest Ever Increase in Veteran's Funding, New Spending for Ohio and Restores Fiscal Sanity to Washington (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) cast his vote in support of H. Con. Resolution 99, the Budget Resolution, today as part of a coalition committed to restoring fiscal discipline and setting a new direction for America. The budget, which seeks to balance the nation's finances by 2012, also includes spending on critical priorities such as veterans, healthcare, education and protecting the environment. "I believe we've taken a great step forward with this budget bill," said Congressman Tim Ryan. "We've set a new direction for America and I am especially gratified with what we've provided for the Veterans Administration. I believe we've equipped our VA with the tools they need to take care of every one of the 24,000 wounded soldiers coming home from this devastating war in Iraq." The House budget provides for the largest veterans' budget increase in American history - $3.5 billion more this year ($32 billion over the next five years) for veterans' health care than the President's budget. These additional resources will provide needed health care for new veterans, repair VA health care facilities, make overdue investments in veterans' mental health care and traumatic brain injury as well as speed up and improve disability claims processing. This budget also restores funding cut by the President to the Small Business Administration and provides nearly $8 billion more for education and workforce training. In addition, the House budget passed today protects Homeland Security money for Ohio. ###
03.21.2007	(Washington, D.C.) At the request of Congressman Tim Ryan, Fr. Thomas McCarthy of the Diocese of Youngstown delivered the opening prayer for the House of Representatives on Wednesday, March 21st at 10:00 AM. After the prayer, Congressman Ryan and Congressman Charlie Wilson (OH-6) delivered a one-minute addresses in honor of Fr. McCarthy. C-SPAN carried the prayer live, and video of the speech and Congressman Ryan's remarks are available on our {mgmediabot}images/zoom/OTAINV/morningprayer_(03_21_2007)[1].wmv|true(website)|300|300{/mgmediabot}: Rev. Thomas J. McCarthy Father Thomas McCarthy is a Warren native and attended St. Mary School and St. Mary High School (predecessor to John F. Kennedy High School). He studied at St. Gregory Seminary and Mount St. Mary of the West seminary, as well as Xavier University, all in Cincinnati, earning Bachelor's and Master's degrees. He was ordained August 15, 1961, in St. Columba Cathedral by Bishop Emmet Walsh. Father McCarthy was named associate pastor at Youngstown St. Edward Parish in June, 1962 and since that time has served at St. Joseph in Austintown, St. William in Champion, St. Michael in Canfield, Blessed Sacrament in Warren and St. Joseph in Mantua. He became Diocesan Director of Vocations in 1966 and Assistant Chancellor in 1967. He served as Associate Superintendent of Schools, 1969-71, and Principal of Cardinal Mooney High School, 1971-72. From 1979 to 1985, he also served as Diocesan Priest Personnel Director. He was named dean of Stark County West in 1995 for a six-year term, and in 2000 became Priest Personnel Advisor and an ex-officio member of the Priests' Personnel Board. He is a judge for the Diocesan Tribunal. Father McCarthy has been a member of the diocesan Priests' Council, Dean of Portage County, and served as President of the National Federation of Priests' Councils.. As of August 1, 2003, he was appointed to the position of Bishop's Delegate for Retired Priests. Fr. McCarthy resides at St. Paul Parish in Salem. # # #
02.28.2007	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17) and Congressman Duncan Hunter (CA-52) announced the re-introduction of HR 782, the Fair Currency Act with a bipartisan coalition of lawmakers, industry groups and labor. The effort, which would target exchange rate misalignment between the U.S. Dollar, Chinese Yuan and other major trading partners, is an innovative way to reduce unnatural comparative advantages that command economies can use against market economies. "As we saw yesterday with China's unnaturally overheated economy, we're getting dangerously close to economic peril for the Chinese economy in the long-term and both short-term and long-term instability for our own," said Congressman Ryan (D-OH). "This legislation, which is consistent with China's WTO agreements, holds China accountable for unfair misalignment practices and protects our national security and our defense industrial base." Congressman Ryan was joined by original cosponsor Congressman Duncan Hunter (R-CA) as well as Congresswoman Betty Sutton (D-OH) and Congressman Donald Manzullo (R-IL). In addition, more than 50 small and medium sized manufacturers attended the conference, and speakers included members of the AFL-CIO, China Currency Coalition and the Domestic Manufacturers Group, an informal caucus within the National Association of Manufacturers. "This is one of the most broad based coalitions I've ever had the pleasure to work with," said Congressman Ryan, "Democrats and Republicans, manufacturers and labor, and representatives from all over the country have come together on this common sense legislation which only asks China to live up to the standards it agreed to when it joined the WTO." The Fair Currency Act currently has 55 cosponsors.
02.28.2007	$475,000 Award to Purchase Equipment That Will Aid Cutting Edge Research (Washington, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan announced today a grant of $475,000 from the National Science Foundation for the Department of Chemistry at Youngstown State University. The grant will be used to acquire a spectrometer, a device used to identify unknown substances and study the dynamics of interaction between molecules. The spectrometer will be used to do cutting edge research in the fields of biotechnology and nanotechnology. This award comes on the heels of a $1 million federal earmark that Congressman successfully procured for the University late last year for the CyberEnabled Industrial Innovation Center (CEIIC). "Making YSU into a center for research in biotechnology and nanotechnology will play a major part in helping create high-quality and good-paying jobs for our region. Research in these areas hold enormous promise of revolutionizing the healthcare and manufacturing industries throughout our nation, and the Mahoning Valley is well-positioned to lead the development of this cutting-edge technology." "I commend YSU for its leadership and efforts to capture this grant. Competition for the funding was fierce, so the University deserves high praise for this achievement." The award will allow YSU's Department of Chemistry to collaborate its research with Muskingum College in New Concord, OH, Harold Washington College in Chicago, IL and Delta College in University Center, MI. Muskingum College draws nearly half of its student body from low-income families in the Appalachian Mountains, Harold Washington College's diverse enrollment boasts 65% of its students from African-American and Hispanic families and Delta College's enrollment contains a majority of first-generation College students from blue collar families.
02.16.2007	26 Democrats Join Effort to Prevent Unintended Pregnancies, Support Pregnant Women, and Assist New Parents. (WASHINGTON, D.C.) - . Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH), a member of the Congressional Pro-Life Caucus, and Rep. Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), a member of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus announced today that they have reintroduced common ground legislation to reduce the number of abortions in America. The Reducing the Need for Abortions and Supporting Parents Act (HR 1074) would create programs to prevent teen pregnancy, expand Medicaid eligibility for family planning services, combat sexual assault and expand adoption programs. "This is a new direction on reducing unintended pregnancies and abortions in America-one that will capture the needs of a changing world. We will continue to have a vigorous debate over the legality of abortions, but as we have that debate, it is our moral obligation to also address those issues with which all sides agree. Only then can we claim to be serious about reducing the rate of abortions," said Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-17). "This is a consensus bill focused on the need to reduce abortion, while also providing supports for new parents to strengthen their families. It represents new terrain on this issue. And it moves the discourse in this country beyond the legalization of abortion and toward doing something to reduce the rate of abortion. It is strong on prevention and contraception, strong on family support. Absent these supports, you simply cannot reduce the rate of abortions," said Congresswoman Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-3) H.R. 1074 aims to reduce the abortion rate by preventing unintended pregnancies, supporting pregnant women, and assisting new parents. One in five abortions are obtained by a teenager and 60 percent are obtained by women with incomes below 200 percent of the poverty line. "Every dollar spent on family planning saves three dollars in Medicaid costs," said Congressman Ryan. "A report released last year estimates that if we funded family planning and pregnancy related care at the same levels as Medicaid, which is a goal of our legislation, we could save $1.5 billion in net state and federal Medicaid savings. This is both smart and compassionate."
02.01.2007	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) applauded the unanimous decision Wednesday by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to extend for one year a moratorium on commercial firms such as Wal-Mart attempting to open Industrial Loan Companies (ILC's), known also as "industrial banks". Last year, Congressman Ryan helped build a coalition of 107 Members to sign a letter urging the FDIC to delay granting applications to commercial firms. "This is much more than simply a technical regulatory issue," Congressman Ryan said. "This is a critical public policy decision. The FDIC kept the American people in mind when it made its decision to protect small community banks. People can continue to depend on these institutions when they want to buy a home, start a small business or further their education." "The Independent Community Bankers of America should be commended for their advocacy on behalf of this issue. Now, Congress must act quickly to restore the historic separation between banking and commerce. I support the legislative efforts of Congressman Barney Frank (D-MA) and Congressman Paul Gillmor (R-OH) to close regulatory loopholes and strengthen the authority of the FDIC."
02.01.2007	Ryan's bill is similar to one he introduced in the 109th Congress, the Chinese Currency Act (H.R. 1498), which had the support of 178 cosponsors (WASHINGTON, D.C.) - Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) introduced legislation yesterday with Congressman Duncan Hunter (R-CA) to help domestic manufacturing companies that are injured by foreign currency manipulation gain relief under U.S. trade laws. The People's Republic of China, in particular, flouts international trade laws by artificially undervaluing its currency. This enables Chinese exporters to gain up to a 40 percent price advantage over their competitors in the U.S. domestic industry. The Fair Currency Act of 2007 ("Ryan-Hunter") addresses this unfair advantage by: providing injured U.S. industries with effective remedies in the form of countervailing duties on imports that benefit from currency manipulation. This portion of the legislation applies equally to any country, whether a market or non-market economy, whose exchange-rate is found to be unfairly misaligned. clarifying that the inclusion of exchange-rate misalignment by the People's Republic of China is a condition to be considered under Section 421 of the Trade Act of 1974. This portion of the legislation was agreed to by China, is consistent with the WTO, and holds China accountable to its market-disruption agreements made as a condition to its accession into the WTO in 2001. prohibiting the Department of Defense from procuring Chinese imports that compete with our domestic defense industrial base if China's currency misalignment is determined to be contributing to the disruption of the U.S. industry that manufactures those products. requiring the Secretary of the Treasury to determine semi-annually if there is fundamental misalignment or exchange-rate manipulation by any trading partner, and bars the administration from supporting increased voting rights in international financial institutions such as the IMF for such violators. "If enacted, the Ryan-Hunter bill will provide essential relief for domestic manufacturing companies that are being crushed by China's unfair currency manipulation," Congressman Ryan said. "U.S. companies and their workers deserve the ability to operate in a fair trade market, and our legislation helps level the playing field."
01.23.2007	(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-17) released the following statement in response to President Bush's State of the Union Address: "In his speech to Congress and the nation, President Bush promised bipartisanship and collaboration. I can only hope he lives up to his word. "If the President is truly serious about cooperation, he should start by working on a plan to bring our troops home safely from Iraq, offer an affordable healthcare plan without tax code gimmickry, end our dependence on foreign oil, and partner with Democrats to create a government that is both effective and efficient. "By constantly ignoring the voices of dissent, President Bush has managed to consistently get the biggest decisions wrong. For the sake of our nation and our troops we need the President to begin listening and cooperating with Congress and the American people."
01.17.2007	When Fully Phased In, the Democratic Bill Would Save Student Borrowers in Ohio an Average of $4,320 over the Life of Their Loans Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Niles) voted to make college more affordable and accessible by cutting the interest rate on subsidized student loans for undergraduates in half over the next five years - cutting the interest rate from 6.8% to 3.4%. The College Student Relief Act-which Congressman Ryan cosponsored-cuts the interest rate in half in five steps: from 6.8% to 6.12% in 2007; 5.44% in 2008; 4.76% in 2009; 4.08% in 2010; and 3.4% in 2011. The bill passed the House of Representatives Wednesday evening. "For years, past Republican Congresses sat on their hands while college costs skyrocketed," said Congressman Ryan. "Thankfully, Speaker Pelosi and the Democratic Congress recognized the urgency of this issue by passing the College Student Relief Act during our first 100 hours of congressional business. If passed by the Senate and signed into law by the President, our bill will provide significant savings for over 170,000 low- and middle-income students and parents in Ohio."
01.14.2007	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Niles) released the following statement today in recognition of Martin Luther King Day, which is celebrated on Monday, January 15th: "As our nation celebrates Martin Luther King Day, we are called to remember and honor Dr. King's triumphs and sacrifices. At a time when African-Americans were silenced by gross injustice, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. provided a powerful voice for equality. Through the example of his leadership, he gave all Americans the courage to work together peacefully for change. "Dr. King believed that our government had a responsibility to meet the needs of ordinary families. But now, on what would have been his 78th birthday, America's broken health care system, growing economic inequality, and lingering social injustice show that we have a long way to go before realizing Dr. King's extraordinary vision. "I remain hopeful, however, that we are bringing Dr. King's dream closer to reality. Last week, the Democratic House of Representatives passed a measure that will help nearly 13 million American workers and their families by raising the minimum wage. We followed that achievement by passing a bill to help reduce prescription drug costs for Medicare beneficiaries, and, this week, Democrats in Congress will move to cut the cost of college for approximately 5.5 million low- and middle-income undergraduates and their families. "So on Martin Luther King Day, and every day, let us honor Dr. King's legacy by recommitting ourselves to his dream for America."
01.10.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan today issued the following in support of the minimum wage increase today passed by the U.S. House of Representatives: "I am proud to have joined with my Democratic colleagues in support of H.R. 2, the Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007. The November election sent a clear message to Congress that Americans expect our workers to receive an honest day's wage for an honest day's work. "In recent years the pharmaceutical industry lobbyists came to the table and got what they wanted; the oil industry came to the table and walked away happy; and now-with a Democratic Congress in charge-individuals who work at the lowest wages in our nation will receive a fair and equitable share of the great wealth of this nation. "While our economy is growing, a large number of Americans still struggle to make ends meet, including significant percentages of minorities. An increase in the minimum wage will increase the buying power of low-wage workers and keep our endangered middle class from slipping into poverty. It will reduce job turnover as well as lead to higher productivity and lower recruitment and training costs for employers. "Raising the minimum wage is the right thing to do for all Americans, and I am happy that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle joined the new Speaker in passing this important legislation."
01.10.2007	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Niles) released the following statement today regarding President Bush's expected announcement that he intends to escalate the war in Iraq by adding as many as 20,000 troops to overall force levels: For the sake of our troops, our national security, and our international reputation, it is vital that President Bush begin working on a plan to end our occupation of Iraq, not escalate it. Sending more of our service men and women to police Iraq's bloody civil war will do little to overcome the many problems President Bush's failed policy has created. As our Generals in Iraq have stated repeatedly, increasing the number of our troops fighting in Iraq will increase Iraqis' dependency on U.S. forces, strain a U.S. military that's already stretched thin, and contribute little to our ability to pacify that country. The American people, our military leaders, Democratic Members of Congress, and even a growing number of Republican Members have reached the commonsense conclusion that the only way to win the occupation of Iraq is to end it. The era of the Rubberstamp Republican Congress is over, and President Bush should be on notice that a Democratic Congress will not provide a blank check for his Administration to continue its misguided and dangerous policies.
01.04.2007	Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Tim Ryan was sworn-in today at 2:30 p.m. as a member of the 110th Congress. He was re-elected to his third term on November 7, 2006 with 80 percent of the vote. In the Oath of Office, Rep. Ryan pledged to support and defend the Constitution of the United States. "Today was the third time I had the honor of taking that oath," Rep. Ryan said. "It continues to be an increasingly humbling experience, and I am grateful that the people of the 17th district allow me to serve them." "Today was especially remarkable, as I was sworn-in for the first time as a member of the majority party by the first female Speaker of the House." "The control of the 110th Congress was given to Democrats on the promise of a New Direction for America. I look forward to working with my Democratic colleagues, as well as building partnerships with the Republican minority to uphold that promise."
01.04.2007	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Niles) announced today that he was appointed to two subcommittees on the House Committee on Appropriations: the Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies ("Labor-HHS") and the Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies ("Energy and Water"). "These subcommittees have jurisdiction over many important federal departments and agencies that directly impact our congressional district, region, and Ohio," said Congressman Ryan. "I'm very pleased with these assignments and look forward to working with my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee to help restore fiscal discipline in Congress and secure smart, targeted investments for the many important projects in the 17th District and surrounding region." The Labor-HHS Subcommittee has jurisdiction over the following departments and agencies: Department of Education Department of Health and Human Services (Except Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry; Food and Drug Administration; Indian Health Services and Facilities; National Institute of Environmental Sciences (formerly EPA/Superfund)) Department of Labor Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled Corporation for National and Community Service Corporation for Public Broadcasting Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission Institute of Museum and Library Services Medicare Payment Advisory Commission National Commission on Libraries and Information Science National Council on Disability National Labor Relations Board National Mediation Board Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission Railroad Retirement Board Social Security Administration The Energy and Water Subcommittee has jurisdiction over the following departments and agencies: Department of Energy Army Corps of Engineers-Civil Bureau of Reclamation (Department of Interior) Appalachian Regional Commission Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board Delta Regional Authority Denali Commission Nuclear Regulatory Commission Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board Tennessee Valley Authority
12.15.2006	(Washington, D.C.) - In Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke's remarks to the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences on December 15th, he stated that: "greater scope for market forces to determine the value of the RMB would also reduce an important distortion in the Chinese economy, namely, the effective subsidy that an undervalued currency provides for Chinese firms..." Responding to the speech, Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH-17) stated: "Since April 2005, Congressman Duncan Hunter and I have been calling China's currency policy an export subsidy. We are thrilled that Chairman Bernanke shares that view." Congressman Duncan Hunter (R-CA-52) continued: "Export subsidies, like the Chinese currency manipulation, distort the market and bankrupt U.S. industries. The Chinese need to stop this subsidy and play by the global trade rules." On April 6th, 2005, Congressmen Ryan and Hunter introduced H.R. 1498, a bill to clarify in U.S. trade law that currency undervaluation is an illegal export subsidy, actionable under the Trade Act of 1974, which was amended in accordance with the World Trade Organization's Subsidies and Countervailing Measures (SCM) agreement. The legislation argues that currency undervaluation is a "de jure" export subsidy. China's policy on capital controls require all exporters to trade their U.S. dollars to a Chinese central bank at a rate dictated by the Chinese government (currently 7.82 yuan per dollar). All three of the WTO requirements for a trade practice to be determined an illegal subsidy are met in this case, namely (1) China's policy involves a financial contribution from the government, and it (2) provides a benefit to exporters which is (3) specific to trade. Congressman Tim Ryan continued: "Talk is cheap. We have had discussions for over three years, now is the time for action." Armed Services Chairman Duncan Hunter has repeatedly argued that U.S. trade dollars are funding China's militarization: "Now is the time to keep America strong and end Chinese protectionism," he said. H.R. 1498 has 178 bi-partisan co-sponsors in the House of Representatives, and a companion bill was introduced by Senator Jim Bunning of Kentucky on September 29th called S. 3992.
12.13.2006	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Niles) received his top pick for a new committee assignment today when the House Democratic Steering Committee elected Ryan to serve on the exclusive House Appropriations Committee. The Appropriations Committee has jurisdiction over approximately $873 billion in federal spending for FY 2007. "I'm honored to be chosen to serve on the House Appropriations Committee, and I welcome the challenges and responsibilities that come with this prestigious appointment," said Congressman Ryan. Ryan's bid for the Appropriations Committee received a boost when House Speaker-elect Nancy Pelosi appointed Ryan to a position on the Steering Committee-enabling him to advocate on his own behalf as the Steering Committee met to decide new committee assignments. "This is tremendous news for the 17th District, and I look forward to using my new position to promote more opportunities for economic development throughout our region and Ohio."
12.08.2006	(Washington, D.C.) - The House of Representatives passed a resolution introduced by Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) Thursday evening which expresses support for an Irish-American Heritage Month. "Nearly 44 million Americans celebrate Irish origins, and with good cause," said Congressman Ryan. "From the earliest stages of our nation's history, Irish-Americans have toiled to contribute to many aspects of American life, including industry, agriculture, science, education and the arts. I'm pleased that my House colleagues voted to honor Irish-Americans and their contributions to our nation's heritage."
12.05.2006	(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH) announced today that Speaker-elect Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) has appointed him to the House Democratic Steering Committee, the body responsible for selecting committee assignments for the 110th Congress. Pelosi called Ryan Tuesday night to inform him that she was personally appointing him to fill one of the select few leadership slots on that committee. Rep. Ryan, who is seeking a seat on the House Appropriations Committee, joined the committee for a 2:30 p.m. meeting today to discuss appointments. The committee will meet throughout this week and next week, with final decisions on committee assignments expected sometime next week. "I am honored that Speaker-elect Nancy Pelosi has chosen me to help the Democratic Caucus choose committee assignments," said Congressman Ryan. "I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Steering Committee to help shape the direction of the new Democratic House Majority."
03.13.2007	Congressman Tim Ryan Scheduled to Chair Labor/HHS Subcommittee of Appropriations TOMORROW 3/14/2007 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Tim Ryan is scheduled to Chair the Labor/HHS Subcommittee on Appropriations TOMORROW, Wednesday, March 14, 2007 from 10:00AM to 12:00PM. Chairman David Obey (WI-7) may be present for part of the hearing and would preside over that part of it. The hearing will cover appropriations for the U.S. Department of Education, student financial aid, higher education and Institute of Education Sciences. For those of you in Washington, D.C., the hearing will be in 2358 Rayburn House Office Building. For those of you who cannot attend, a video of his statements will be made available upon request. WHO: Congressman Tim Ryan WHAT: Congressman Ryan to chair Labor/HHS Subcommittee of Appropriations WHERE: 2358 Rayburn House Office Building WHEN: Wednesday, March 14, 2007 # # #
03.08.2007	(Youngstown, OH) - Youngstown State University is proud to host Alvin and Heidi Toffler TONIGHT, as part of the Paul J. and Marguerite K. Thomas Colloquium. The Tofflers will be speaking about where the economy and nation are heading in the next 30 years. In addition to the Colloquium which is scheduled for 7:30PM, the Tofflers will be available to the press after the event to take questions about the speech. The press availability will be directly AFTER the Colloquium in Stambaugh Auditorium's Christman Room. WHO: Congressman Tim Ryan, Alvin and Heidi Toffler WHAT: Paul J. and Marguerite K. Thomas Colloquium with speakers Alvin and Heidi Toffler. PRESS AVAILABILITY TO FOLLOW IMMEDIATELY AFTER SPEECH WHERE: Stambaugh Auditorium, 1000 Fifth Avenue, Youngstown, OH Press Availability to follow in Stambaugh Auditorium's Christman Room WHEN: Thursday, March 8, 2007 at 7:30 PM # # #
11.03.2006	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) was notified Friday evening by the Department of Labor that over 3000 area workers who took buyouts from Delphi will be eligible to apply for benefits under the federal Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program. Until now, it was uncertain whether those workers who took buyouts would be considered to have left their jobs voluntarily, thus making them ineligible for federal benefits such as Trade Adjustment Assistance. Congressman Ryan and Congressman Mike Turner (R-Ohio) wrote a letter in July to Secretary of Labor, Elaine Chao, urging her to do everything in her power to see that the workers would be eligible for TAA and other assistance. "This is very welcome news for the thousands of individuals in our area who've had to face the challenge of losing a job," said Congressman Ryan. "This decision by the Department of Labor opens the door for those workers to become eligible for valuable federal assistance programs. In the coming days and weeks, I intend to work closely with the Department of Labor, the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services, Delphi, and the labor community to ensure that every worker who is eligible to apply for this assistance gets the information they need."
10.26.2006	State of Ohio Says Youngstown Business Incubator is Tops in Every Category Measured Washington, D.C.) -Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Niles) commended the Youngstown Business Incubator (YBI) today for receiving top rankings in three of the most important incubator performance categories measured by the Ohio Department of Development. The Department reported yesterday that in the most recent fiscal year (July 1, 2005 - June 30, 2006), the YBI led the state in total sales revenue, total payroll, and total outside investment. There are 11 incubators funded by the Ohio Department of Development's Edison Technology Incubator Program. The report also highlights the tremendous success and growth the incubator continues to experience. Over the past fiscal year, the Youngstown Business Incubator's sales have increased by $10,300,000 and payroll has increased by $5,344,000. Significantly, a large investment by a Columbus-based venture investment group helped boost the YBI's total outside investment by $32,750,000 over the last fiscal year. "The State of Ohio's findings confirm what we in Northeast Ohio already knew: the Youngstown Business Incubator is the premier home in Ohio for innovative companies poised for success," said Congressman Ryan. "I could not be prouder of the Youngstown Business Incubator and extend my congratulations to the Incubator's director, Jim Cossler, and to the pioneering companies doing business there. This accomplishment proves that the Mahoning Valley can be a center for innovation and research if we are willing to commit the time, energy, and resources necessary for building a new economy.
10.25.2006	(Washington, D.C.) - U.S. Rep. Tim Ryan (D-Niles) was joined today by three other Democratic members of Ohio's congressional delegation-U.S. Reps. Stephanie Tubbs Jones (D-Cleveland), Marcy Kaptur (D-Toledo), and Dennis Kucinich (D-Cleveland)-in sending a letter to the U.S. Election Assistance Commission. The letter requests an expansion of the Commission's ongoing audit of federal election assistance funds spent by the Ohio Secretary of State's office. The U.S. Election Assistance Commission is currently engaged in a routine audit of Help America Vote Act (HAVA) funds spent by Ohio Secretary of State J. Kenneth Blackwell. The letter sent by Ryan and the other lawmakers urges the Commission to expand the scope of its probe to cover concerns that were raised by a nonprofit, nonpartisan government watchdog organization, Common Cause Ohio. Common Cause Ohio sent a letter to the U.S. Election Assistance Commission alleging that federal HAVA dollars may have been misspent and HAVA compliance may be in jeopardy. The Ohio lawmakers' letter also reiterates concerns first raised in a report released last year by the House Judiciary Committee's minority staff.
10.02.2006	(Washington, D.C.) - On Friday, Congress passed a bill introduced by Congressman Tim Ryan to name the Federal Building and Courthouse in Akron after former Akron-area Congressman John Seiberling. The bill now heads to the President where he is expected to sign it this week. "Over the last 5 years, I have come to know John Seiberling as a friend, mentor and role model for what it truly means to be a dedicated and distinguished public official," said Congressman Ryan. "Mr. Seiberling is among our most respected leaders and this is a distinction that is well-deserved." After leaving Congress, Congressman Seiberling remained one of our nation's leading advocates for conservation and environmental protection. Ryan added, "Since introducing this bill, I have learned from many of my colleagues who had the good fortune to serve with Mr. Seiberling that he epitomized civility in his words and actions-with colleagues, staff, and others. I am humbled to have had the opportunity to work with my colleagues to pass this bill." According to the legislation, the Federal building located at 2 South Main Street in Akron shall be known and designated as the "John F. Seiberling Federal Building". The bill now awaits action in the Senate. Following the President's signing of Ryan's bill-which makes the name designation federal law-a formal dedication ceremony will be held.
09.29.2006	(Washington, DC) - On Friday, Congressman Tim Ryan's (D-Ohio) Western Reserve Heritage Area Study Act was passed by the Senate and is now on its way to the President to be singed into law. Ryan's legislation, H.R. 412, passed the House of Representatives in March and was sent to the Senate where it was passed as part of S. 203. The act authorizes a study to designate the 14 counties of northern Ohio as a National Heritage Area. Ryan's legislation is a crucial first step toward the creation of the Western Reserve Heritage Area. If the study confirms that the Western Reserve region meets the National Park Service guidelines, then a subsequent bill will be introduced by Ryan to formally establish and fund the Western Reserve National Heritage Area. This designation would make the Heritage Area eligible to receive $10 million in federal funds over 10 years and more federal dollars in future years, can then be used as a resource to enhance and promote the region and encourage public-private support for investment in preservation, conservation and economic initiatives. The S.203 specifically authorizes $250,000 in federal funding for the National Park Service's Midwest Region Rivers, Trails and Conservation Assistance Program to conduct a study of a Western Reserve National Heritage Area in Trumbull, Mahoning, Portage and Summit Counties and 10 additional counties in Northern Ohio. The City of Warren in Trumbull County is the historic capital of the Western Reserve. "Our region of Ohio deserves national recognition for its rich history and vibrant culture," said Congressman Ryan. "Establishing the Western Reserve Heritage Area will provide our region with additional resources and a focused plan to preserve our history and culture and promote our area. The passage of this legislation is an important victory for our region and has great potential to further fuel the power of regionalization to increase the economic strength and quality of life in the 17th District and surrounding areas. Encompassing the counties of Trumbull, Mahoning, Ashtabula, Portage, Geauga, Lake, Cuyahoga, Summit, Medina, Huron, Lorain, Erie, Ottawa and Ashland, the Western Reserve was established by the Governor of Connecticut, Jonathon Trumbull, in 1786 as one of the first settlements outside of the original thirteen colonies. It became the destination of many settlers whose property and land were devastated by the Revolutionary War. Museums as well as historical landmarks, schools and businesses named for the Western Reserve serve as fixtures and sources of pride throughout this modern day region of Ohio that was the forerunner to the U.S. westward expansion.
09.29.2006	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) - Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) announced today that Congress this week approved a $1 million federal earmark for Youngstown State University which Ryan had inserted into a Defense Department spending bill. The money will expand Youngstown State University's CyberEnabled Industrial Innovation Center (CEIIC). The program, which is administered by YSU's Chemistry Department, allows off-campus research and academic institutions to remotely access certain YSU research and testing equipment via the Internet. Expanding the YSU CEIIC program will allow the already successful academic research program to begin providing direct services to industry. "The CyberEnabled technology program is a great example of the innovation now taking place across the Mahoning Valley," said Congressman Ryan. "I believe very strongly that we need to continue to support these types of programs and also look for more ways to fully develop our area's potential. I'm extremely proud to have been able to get this money for Youngstown State University."
09.29.2006	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) - Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) announced today that Congress this week approved $22.5 million in federal earmarks which Ryan had inserted into a Defense Department spending bill. The earmarks will fund high-tech research and development projects at businesses based in Summit and Portage counties. The funds include $17.5 million for Lockheed Martin to develop a high altitude airship, $2 million for Lockheed's Millennium Gun project, $1 million for Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company to continue research on materials for the Joint Strike Fighter aircraft, and $1 million for Alpha-Micron to continue development of visors for pilots based on state-of-the art liquid crystal technology. "These funds represent a significant achievement in our goal of advancing technology development in the 17th District," said Congressman Ryan. "I'm very proud to have been able to secure these funds, which I believe will not only result in the development of new technologies but also new jobs and new investment for our region." The High Altitude Airship will be designed to operate autonomously in the stratosphere for long periods of time as a stable, geostationary platform suitable for communications, sensor, and weapons. It will be manufactured at Lockheed's Airdock in Akron. The Millennium Gun is a multi-role, inner-layer defense naval weapon system designed to defeat threats in the air, on the surface, and during coastal and river operations. Its low weight makes it suitable for mounting on a number of ship types, including Coast Guard cutters, frigates, offshore patrol boats, and the Littoral Combat Ship. Goodyear's research on advanced materials and new materials for combat aircraft tires as well as other aircraft tires will strengthen our domestic industrial manufacturing base for military tires and ensure a second source for the current Joint Strike Fighter. Goodyear is the only U.S.-owned tire company manufacturing for the U.S. military. Alpha-Micron's Variable Transmittance Visor, utilizing liquid crystal technology, is a fast-acting technology that enables a fighter pilot to adjust the tint of his or her helmet visor. In addition to increasing see-through without having to raise the visor, helmet-mounted displays will retain their contrast, and the information they display will not be washed out by bright light or be too dim to read.
09.14.2006	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) - A coalition of pro-life and pro-choice Democrats has come together in an unprecedented effort to pass comprehensive new legislation that would significantly reduce the number of abortions in America. Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH), a member of the Congressional Pro-Life Caucus, and Rep. Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), a member of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, are the lead sponsors of the bill, which aims to reduce abortions by preventing unintended pregnancies, supporting pregnant women, and assisting new parents. "Solving problems often requires us to build new coalitions," said Congressman Tim Ryan. "Democrats are united in our efforts to significantly reduce the number of abortions in America by broadening the stagnant political debate that too often accompanies this issue." Democrats believe that the root-causes of abortion can and must be addressed. There are still 1.3 million abortions performed in America each year-half of all unintended pregnancies. One in five U.S. pregnancies ends in abortion, and nearly one of every five abortions in America are performed on teenagers. The Ryan-DeLauro legislation contains over 20 innovative and proven policy initiatives including expanded access for contraception for low-income woman, adoption tax credits, increased funding for health care for low-income mothers and children, nurse home visits for new mothers, grants for creative approaches to teen pregnancy and unintended pregnancy reduction, and funding for day-care programs and child-care centers on college campuses. "I truly believe that Democrats have always been the party willing to take on the tough issues-the issues of the uninsured, the middle-class, and the disadvantaged." Ryan added. "I am honored to introduce a new and powerful policy that will reduce the number of unintended pregnancies and abortions in America, help women bear healthy children and support new parents." The legislation was unveiled Thursday at a news conference in Washington where Ryan and DeLauro were joined by cosponsors Reps. Rahm Emanuel (IL), Stephanie Herseth (SD), James Langevin (RI), and Harold Ford Jr. (TN). Rachel Laser of Third Way, a progressive think tank, and Sister Sharon Dillon of the Catholic Alliance for the Common Good also spoke on behalf of the bill. Other original cosponsors include Reps. Marcy Kaptur (OH), Ted Strickland (OH), Anna Eshoo (CA), John Larson (CT), and James Clyburn (SC).
09.11.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. - On Friday, Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) introduced legislation-with 14 House Members as original cosponsors-that would name the Federal building at 2 South Main Street in Akron after Congressman John F. Seiberling. Congressman Seiberling represented the greater Akron area in Congress for 16 years between 1971 and 1987. The bill, introduced September 8, 2006, on Seiberling's 88th birthday, would designate the building as the "John F. Seiberling Federal Building". "John Seiberling's service to his community, state and nation is a shining example of what it means to serve the common good," said Congressman Ryan. "I couldn't be more proud to offer this deserving tribute to a man who set the standard for what a Member of Congress and dedicated public official should be. His vision, commitment and dedication to making a real difference stands as an example for all of us, and it is fitting that Congress recognize John Seiberling's legacy by ensuring that his lasting mark on the City of Akron, Ohio and our nation is honored and remembered forever." "John Seiberling has been a dedicated public servant and a champion of the interests of Ohio families." said Congressman Sherrod Brown. "A nationally recognized leader in the conservation of our natural resources, John Seiberling has made a better America for the next generation." A longtime champion of the environment, it was John Seiberling's vision and tireless legislative efforts that created the 33,000-acre Cuyahoga Valley National Park, which runs 33 miles from northern Akron to the outskirts of Cleveland. Creation of the park was critical to preserving the precious remaining open green space in the area which at the time was under sustained threat from urban expansion and development. Seiberling's efforts to preserve the Cuyahoga Valley's green space began in the early 1960's and culminated in 1974 when, as U.S. Representative for the former 14th Congressional District, his legislation passed that created the Cuyahoga Valley National Recreation Area. In 2000, it became a National Park. H.R. 6051 has 14 cosponsors and has been referred to the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure for consideration. The following Members of Congress have cosponsored H.R. 6051: Rep Berman, Howard L. [D-CA-28] Rep Brown, Sherrod [D-OH-13] Rep Hobson, David L. [R-OH-7] Rep Jones, Stephanie Tubbs [D-OH-11] Rep Kaptur, Marcy [D-OH-9] Rep LaHood, Ray [R-IL-18] Rep LaTourette, Steve C. [R-OH-14] Rep Miller, George [D-CA-7] Rep Obey, David R. [D-WI-7] Rep Rahall, Nick J., II [D-WV-3] Rep Regula, Ralph [R-OH-16] Rep Strickland, Ted [D-OH-6] Rep Udall, Mark [D-CO-2] Rep Weldon, Curt [R-PA-7]
08.31.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. -Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) hosted Congressman Jack P. Murtha (D-Pennsylvania), the top Democrat on the House Subcommittee on Defense Appropriations, at a tour of Lockheed Martin's Akron facility. At a news conference following the tour, Ryan and Murtha affirmed their support for the High Altitude Airship (HAA), an unmanned, lighter-than-air vehicle which may be built and housed at Lockheed's Airdock in Akron. The Airship, which would be about 500 feet long and 150 feet in diameter, would be built to operate autonomously in the stratosphere (about 70,000 feet) for weeks or even months at time and serve as a stable, geostationary platform suitable for communications, sensors, and weapons. The High Altitude Airship project would create as many as 500 new jobs in Northeast Ohio. In June, Ryan worked closely with Murtha to secure federal funding for the project and was successful in allocating $20 million for the HAA in the House-passed version of the Defense Appropriations Bill. The legislation passed the House on June 20. "The High Altitude Airship project is an important national missile defense program, and--following the production of the prototype airship--has the potential to create 500 new jobs, said Congressman Ryan. "I am incredibly thankful for the efforts of Congressman Jack Murtha, who helped me secure $20 million in federal funding for this project. Without his leadership and dedication to the High Altitude Airship, this project would not have succeeded like it has."
08.17.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Niles) announced today that the Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Bill, which has passed out of committee and now awaits approval by the House of Representatives, contains federal funding he secured for a hospital in the City of Akron. The legislation would provide $200,000 to Akron General Health Systems for the Ambulatory Medical Records program. The program provides a web-based solution to maintaining medical records which will improve the overall quality of care and reduce costs. "This funding will ensure that Akron General Health Systems has the resources it needs to reduce costs and deliver the best possible care," said Congressman Ryan. "I'm very pleased that my congressional colleagues recognize the value of this important project."
08.17.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Niles) announced today that the Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Bill, which has passed out of committee and now awaits approval by the House of Representatives, contains $550,000 he secured for two local projects in the Mahoning Valley. The Rich Center for Autism at Youngstown State University is slated to receive a $350,000 earmark to help establish distance learning programs for professional development of teachers, medical staff, and others. It will also establish and implement a best practices program for distance learning, and develop off-site parental surveillance of classrooms of children with autism. The Pathway to Building Trades Program would receive a $200,000 earmark to provide opportunities for students in Youngstown City Schools and Warren City Schools by offering employment training, hands-on experience, classroom instruction, life skills training, and leadership skills, with an emphasis on skills needed for the building trades. "These funds will help further our efforts to establish the Mahoning Valley as a place where technology, innovation, and education are encouraged and supported," said Congressman Ryan. "We will build on our recent progress by bringing quality, high-paying jobs to our area and ensuring that our workforce has the creativity, knowledge and expertise to succeed at those jobs.
08.10.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Niles) sent a letter today to Mary J. Oxley, Executive Secretary of the Environmental Review Appeals Commission (ERAC), expressing his concerns about potential negative consequences of a proposed Hubbard landfill. ERAC is set to decide on whether it has jurisdiction to rule on an appeal filed by the company seeking to build the landfill. Text of the letter is included below. August 9, 2006 Mary J. Oxley, Executive Secretary The Environmental Review Appeals Commission 309 South Fourth Street, Room 222 Columbus, Ohio 43215 Dear Ms. Oxley, I am writing in response to an application by Trans Rail America and Evanel Consultants to develop a 243-acre construction and demolition landfill on Mount Everett Road in Hubbard Township. As the U.S. Representative for Hubbard Township and the surrounding communities, I want to join with many of my constituents in expressing grave concerns with the proposed landfill which will have a devastating impact on living conditions and a wide-range of economic development initiatives in and around the Hubbard area. Residents of both Mahoning and Trumbull Counties have recently become very aware of problems brought on by the development of landfills in our heavily populated communities. It is expected that between 300 and 500 rail cars will arrive daily with debris, bringing with it significant increases in local truck traffic. In addition, environmental issues such as air and water quality are a significant concern. The presence of hydrogen-sulfide gases will greatly affect the quality of the air, and possible runoffs could place the area's water quality in jeopardy. Many of my constituents are also concerned about the possibility of diminished property values and in some cases having to leave their homes (this has already happened near the Warren Hills landfill area). Negative changes in traffic patterns and increased personal delays are also a concern for my constituents. I hope that you will consider the concerns that I have raised as well as the concerns of residents and businesses who are voicing their opposition to the proposed landfill and the detrimental impact it will have to Hubbard and the neighboring communities. Should you have any further questions or concerns, please do not hesitate to contact my office at (330) 373-0074. Thank you very much for your time and consideration with this matter. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Member of Congress
07.27.2006	Washington D.C. - Representatives Tim Ryan (D-Niles) and Michael R. Turner (R-Centerville) recently sent a joint letter to Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao. The Representatives wrote Secretary Chao on behalf of Delphi employees who may accept a buyout offer from the Delphi Corporation. The Delphi Corporation, which is currently under Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, seeks to eliminate thousands of employees-many though buyout packages. Representatives Turner and Ryan are concerned that employees that accept buyout offers may not be eligible for federal benefits such as Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA). The letter states: "As members of Congress who represent thousands of Delphi employees we encourage you to do everything in your power to see that these workers will be eligible for TAA and all other types of federal assistance available to displaced workers. It is vital that these hard working individuals be eligible for TAA benefits so that they may get the training and job placement assistance they need to be successful and move Ohio's economy into the 21st century." "These workers, through no fault of their own, face not only the loss of their jobs but, potentially, the loss of affordable healthcare," said Representative Ryan. "We must use every tool at our disposable-including Trade Adjustment Assistance-to ensure that these workers are able to afford health insurance for themselves and their families." Representative Turner added, "During the past century Delphi played an important role in Dayton's history. My father worked for over 40 years from one of the jobs being slated for elimination at one of the Moraine plants, so I understand what these jobs mean to our community. I have been active in seeking solutions that will allow the company to survive, including leading a delegation to corporate headquarters last year. As the company prepares for the future, and some employees accept buyout offers, it is critical that the government is available to help with training and job placement assistance so workers have the skills and opportunity to work in the future."
07.25.2006	(Washington, D.C.) -- Congressman Tim Ryan announced today that the Youngstown City School District will be awarded $437,416 to implement character education programs from the U.S. Department of Education for the 2006-2007 school year. Funds will be used to design character education programs to help students develop behaviors and attitudes that emphasize caring, civic virtue and citizenship, justice and fairness, and respect and responsibility. "I believe that character education must be an important component in getting our students ready to compete in a 21st century economy and help them become leaders in their communities," said Congressman Ryan. "I'm very proud that Youngstown City Schools took the initiative of securing this grant, and I'm eager to see these federal dollars put to work on behalf of the students in our community." The grant, expected to last for four years, will also be used to improve student attendance, academic performance and parental and student involvement. It will support students with mental and physical disabilities, provide teacher professional development and promote community involvement. "Upon graduation, today's students are going to enter a complex and rapidly changing world. This grant will lay the foundation for long-term student achievement and help our Valley achieve educational excellence."
07.20.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) announced today that Kent State University was awarded a $571,245 research grant by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) through the National Institute of Mental Health. The monies will fund a research project through the Department of Psychology titled "Terrorism and Traumatic Responding: Exposure and Resiliency Factors." HHS will make a formal announcement of the award soon. "I'm very pleased to see that the federal government has recognized some of the tremendous research taking place Kent State," said Congressman Ryan. "This award will heighten national awareness of the remarkable scholars and researchers serving our communities in Northeastern Ohio." "We all benefit from federal funds allocated for higher education," Ryan added. "Not only is it imperative that we support research programs for established academics, but we must also provide financial aid to the next generation of scholars."
07.13.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. Today, Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Niles) and Congressman Ted Strickland (D-Lisbon) announced that they will introduce legislation to help ensure that workers affected by downsizing at Delphi and Forum Health are able to retain affordable healthcare for themselves and their families. Under current law, the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA) requires continuation of health coverage to be offered for up to 18 months to eligible employees, their spouses, their former spouses, and their dependent children when group health coverage would otherwise be lost due to certain specific events such as an employee's termination. The required payment for continuation of coverage, however, is often more expensive than the amount that active employees are required to pay for group health coverage, since the employer usually pays part of the cost of employees' coverage and all of that cost can be charged to the individuals receiving continuation coverage. The proposal offered by Ryan and Strickland would extend COBRA eligibility to 36 months from 18 months and ensure that for the first 12 months of COBRA coverage the federal government would pay the full cost of the employee's participation in his or her ex-employer's health insurance plan. During the second 12 months of COBRA coverage, the employee would be responsible for 50 percent of the cost of the health insurance plan. After 24 months, the employee would be responsible for the full cost of COBRA coverage. "COBRA coverage is an indispensable benefit for those who qualify," said Congressman Ryan. "But as health care costs continue to skyrocket, many individuals especially those newly unemployed simply cannot afford to pay the cost of remaining on their previous heath plan. Our legislation would fix this problem and ensure that workers experiencing such hardship will be able to afford heath care coverage for themselves and their families." "Increasingly, workers find themselves facing the loss of health care benefits," Strickland said. "These benefits are invaluable and oftentimes unaffordable. For those who become unemployed, this legislation will provide a safety net in regard to continuing health care benefits. Additionally, help with the expenses of health care coverage may encourage more workers to choose retraining or re-education. Congressman Ryan and I will fight to move this legislation, and we will also continue to fight for fair trade practices and end the rampant outsourcing of American jobs." Events which may trigger COBRA eligibility include the death of a covered employee, voluntary or involuntary termination, divorce, or legal separation from a covered employee, a covered employee's becoming entitled to Medicare, a child's loss of dependent status (and therefore coverage) under the plan, or a reduction in the hours of a covered employee's employment for reasons other than gross misconduct.
06.29.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) announced today that the National Association of Manufacturers' (NAM) trade policy-making body voted Tuesday to endorse his legislation, the Chinese Currency Act (H.R. 1498) ("the Ryan-Hunter Bill"), which makes currency exchange rate manipulation by any U.S. trading partner an export subsidy subject to U.S. trade remedies. By a vote of 75-46, the NAM's International Economic Policy Committee (IEPC), a committee of the whole membership, adopted a resolution to endorse H.R. 1498. "Since Congressman Duncan Hunter (R-California) and I introduced H.R. 1498 in 2005, this legislation has continued to gain tremendous bi-partisan support," said Congressman Ryan. "This endorsement from the NAM represents a clear and powerful statement from our nation's manufacturing sector that it will no longer tolerate exchange-rate protectionism from our trading partners." Economists estimate that if the People's Republic of China did not manipulate its exchange rate, its currency would be up to 40 percent more valuable. By persistently intervening in the currency markets, China is able to make the price of its exports significantly cheaper while making imports into China artificially more expensive often to the severe detriment of U.S. domestic manufactures. In January 2005, Ryan began working with the China Currency Coalition and the AFL-CIO to craft a solution to the Chinese currency crisis that would be WTO-consistent, effective and capable of attracting bi-partisan support. Since the April 2005 introduction, H.R. 1498 has gained 169 co-sponsors in Congress, including 81 Republicans. No other current trade legislation to address exchange rate manipulation has approached this level of support. "I am extremely grateful to the NAM's trade associations and individual member companies who fought so hard on behalf of my legislation to secure the NAM's endorsement," said Congressman Ryan. He noted that many factory owners flew to Washington or left the shop floor to participate in the 2-hour long meeting, which was officiated by NAM President and former Michigan Governor John Engler. Professor Peter Morici of the University of Maryland, who attended the event and argued on behalf of the resolution, stated after the meeting: "The hard reality is China spends over $200 billion per year subsidizing its exports through currency manipulation. Export subsidies are protectionism and are explicitly prohibited under international rules. The opponents of strong US action, with manufacturing operations in China, are merely profiting from and defending Chinese protectionism." In 2003, Congressman Ryan co-founded the House Manufacturing Caucus and has continued to advocate a pro-manufacturing agenda. Since 2000, the U.S. has lost 3 million manufacturing jobs, and the share of imports in tradable manufacturing industries increased from 22.6% in 1997 to 31.2% in 2004.
06.27.2006	Earlier this year, Congress cut $12 billion out of the federal student aid programs in order to help finance tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans. Most of the savings generated from the cuts to the student aid programs were achieved by continuing the practice of requiring student and parent borrowers in many cases to pay excessive interest rates on their loans and by increasing college loan costs for parent borrowers. Congress should be making college more affordable, but instead Congressional Republicans chose to put college further out of reach for American students and families. Democrats want to make students whole again and our legislation would help make college more affordable by: Cutting interest rates in half for the borrowers in most need on subsidized student loans from a fixed rate of 6.8% to a fixed rate of 3.4%; and, Cutting rates on parent loans for undergraduate students from a fixed rate of 8.5% to a fixed rate of 4.25%. Under this bill the typical undergraduate student borrower, with $17,500 in debt, would save $5,600 over the life of his or her loans. These interest rate cuts would become effective on July 1, 2006. Why it's Important to Make College Affordable Republican funding cuts will widen the college participation gap, just when we need to close the gap. Closing the current college participation gap between minority and white students could add $250 billion to the national gross domestic product and $85 billion in tax revenue to strengthen our economy and improve the quality of life for all Americans. According to the Congressional Advisory Committee on Student Financial Assistance, financial barriers will prevent 4.4 million high school graduates from attending a four-year public college over the next decade, and prevent another two million high school graduates from attending any college at all. By 2020, the U.S. is expected to experience a shortage of up to 12 million college-educated workers. Cuts to the student aid program undermine America's competitiveness in the global economy. Whether the U.S. retains its preeminence in the increasingly competitive global economy will depend more and more on having a highly-skilled workforce and higher education is the critical tool for building that workforce. American prosperity, security and overall well-being depend on a well-educated citizenry. Data show that college-educated Americans are less like likely than their peers to be unemployed, to live in poverty or to be incarcerated. In addition, college educated Americans are more likely to volunteer, to vote and to engage in the democratic process. * Unemployment rates for African-Americans with no college degree are almost twice that of African-Americans with college degrees. * The unemployment rate for white high school graduates is 40 percent higher than for white college graduates, while the unemployment rate for Latino high school graduates is 30 percent higher than for Latino college graduates. * The government spends between $800 and $2,700 per year less on social programs for individual 30-year old college graduates than for high school graduates of the same age, gender, and race/ethnicity. * The poverty rate for college graduates is about one-third of the poverty rate for high school graduates. * In the 2000 presidential election, three-quarters of U.S. citizens with college degrees between the ages of 25 and 44 reported voting, compared to 45 percent of high school graduates. * Among college graduates, the volunteer rate is 46 percent, more than double the rate for high school graduates (22 percent). Unfortunately, the Republican policies are taking us in the wrong direction making college even more expensive and ignoring the immediate need to significantly boost our investment in a highly skilled workforce. Democrats in Congress are moving in the right direction by making college more affordable.
06.22.2006	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) announced today that he secured $25.5 million in federal earmarks in a Defense Department spending bill for research and development projects in Summit and Portage Counties. The funds include $20 million for Lockheed Martin to develop a high altitude airship, $2 million for Lockheed's Millennium Gun project, $1.5 million for Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company to continue research on materials for the Joint Strike Fighter aircraft, and $2 million for Alpha-Micron's state-of-the-art variable transmittance visors. The Defense spending bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives Tuesday night. "One of my goals has always been to advance technology development in the 17th District because I believe it's key to economic prosperity," said Congressman Ryan. "I'm very proud to have been able to get these companies funding for several important, cutting-edge projects. Their research will result not only in the development of new technologies, but as important, create new jobs and new investment for the region." The High Altitude Airship will be designed to operate autonomously in the stratosphere for long periods of time (greater than six months) as a stable, geostationary platform suitable for communications, sensor, and weapons. It will be housed at Lockheed's Airdock in Akron. The Millennium Gun is a multi-role, inner-layer defense naval weapon system designed to defeat threats in the air, on the surface, and during coastal and river operations. Its low weight makes it suitable for mounting on a number of ship types, including Coast Guard cutters, frigates, offshore patrol boats, and the Littoral Combat Ship. Goodyear's research on advanced materials and new materials for combat aircraft tires as well as other aircraft tires will support the continued viability of U.S.-owned, headquartered, and manufacturing tire capability for our military and ensure a second source for the current Joint Strike Fighter. Goodyear is the only U.S.-owned tire company manufacturing for the U.S. military. Alpha-Micron's Variable Transmittance Visor, utilizing liquid crystal technology, is a fast-acting technology that enables a fighter pilot to adjust the tint of his or her helmet visor. In addition to increasing see-through without having to raise the visor, helmet-mounted displays will retain their contrast, and the information they display will not be washed out by bright light or be too dim to read.
06.22.2006	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Niles) announced today that he secured a $1 million federal earmark in a Defense spending bill for Youngstown State University. The money will help expand Youngstown State University's CyberEnabled Industrial Innovation Center (CEIIC). The program, which is administered by YSU's Chemistry Department, allows off-campus research and academic institutions to remotely access certain YSU research and testing equipment via the Internet. Expanding the YSU CEIIC program will allow the already successful academic research program to begin providing direct services to industry. "I believe very strongly that the success of the Mahoning Valley will be determined by how much of our attention and resources we devote towards innovation and education in our area," said Congressman Ryan. "The development of this state-of-the-art technology right here in Youngstown is a good example of the creativity and hard work that will be required to position our region for success in a knowledge-based economy. I'm very proud to have been able to help YSU fund this technology." The Defense Department Appropriations bill passed the House Tuesday night and now awaits action by the Senate.
06.20.2006	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Tim Ryan joined House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, several Democratic House Members and college students from across the nation at a rally today in the Capitol to call on Congress to cut student loan rates. On July 1, interest rates on student loans will increase for millions of students who do not lock in lower rates on outstanding loans. Congressman Ryan is a cosponsor of a bill introduced by Rep. George Miller (D-CA) that would cut those rates in half to 3.4 percent for students and 4.25 percent for parents. In addition to the legislation, House Democrats recently launched a new online student loan calculator that allows students and parents to calculate the savings they would receive under the proposed Democratic plan. The calculator shows the monthly interest payments that borrowers would have to make under current law compared with the monthly interest payments they would have to make under the Democratic plan. "My Democrat colleagues and I have offered legislation to cut interest rates in half on college loans and allow students to graduate from college without having to deal with unmanageable debt," said Congressman Ryan. "Democrats will continue to fight to make college an affordable option for every student who wants to attend." Under the Democrats' new legislation, the typical undergraduate student borrower with $17,500 in student loan debt would save $5,600 over the life of his or her loan. This calculation assumes a repayment term of 15 years. Ryan told the students at the rally that the greatest form of tyranny in our society is ignorance and that if they want to have control over their lives they need an affordable education. "We want to educate you. We want to provide you with the opportunity to take control of your own lives, because we need you go out and create jobs, take risks and contribute to society." To use the student loan calculator, please visit: https://edworkforce.house.gov/democrats/calculator.html
06.15.2006	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Niles) announced today that he secured three federal earmarks in a House spending bill which will fund projects in Summit and Portage Counties. The Transportation Appropriations bill, which passed the House of Representatives on Wednesday night, contains $300,000 to make improvements to Bowery Street in Akron (between Main Street and State Street); $500,000 to purchase two heavy duty transit buses for the Portage Area Regional Transit Authority; and $300,000 for the Kent State University Multimodal Transportation Facility. "Each of these projects will advance the quality-of-life in the City of Akron and Portage County," said Ryan. "I'm very pleased that my colleagues on the Appropriation Committee saw the importance and value of granting these funds." The Transportation Appropriations bill now awaits passage by the Senate.
06.15.2006	Youngstown Business Incubator Technology Center to Receive $200,000 (WASHINGTON, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Niles) announced today that he secured two federal earmarks which will fund projects in the City of Youngstown. The Transportation Appropriations bill, which passed the House of Representatives on Wednesday night, contains $200,000 for the Youngstown Business Incubator's new Technology Center and another $200,000 to make safety and capacity improvements to Mahoning Avenue. The legislation now awaits passage by the Senate. The new Technology Center will be built next to the Youngstown Business Incubator's facility on Federal Plaza and house "graduates" of the Incubator's existing program. Last year, Congressman Ryan secured $250,000 in for the Technology Center in a Veteran Affairs/Housing and Urban Development spending bill. "This money will be used to expand one of Youngstown's most promising engines for economic growth, improve our local infrastructure, and help provide good-paying jobs for Mahoning Valley residents," said Ryan. "I'm extremely pleased that my colleagues on the Appropriation Committee saw the importance and value of these local projects." The Youngstown Business Incubator (YBI) offers firms free office space, furniture, telephone hardware, utilities, high-speed Internet connectivity, and early stage legal and accounting services. In addition, the companies also have access to a long list of shared resources including video and teleconferencing systems, multi-media conference centers and presentation equipment, trade show booths, research data bases, software development tools, software production equipment, and software programming tutorials. The YBI's building is 100 percent occupied, housing six companies with 168 employees. Next year, the YBI will have aggregate sales of $100 million with sales contracts with companies in 32 different countries. The YBI has helped businesses generate a total of 16 different intellectual property patents in the building with 19 different software packages.
06.13.2006	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) released the following statement after the Ohio Farm Service Agency (FSA) sent a letter to Ryan's office indicating that local FSA offices in Trumbull and Portage County would remain open. An earlier plan by the Ohio FSA had proposed closing the Trumbull and Portage offices. In letters and conversations with the Ohio Farm Service Agency, Congressman Ryan had urged the Agency to adopt a restructuring plan that would spare the local Trumbull and Portage offices: "This is very good news for our local agriculture producers in Trumbull, Portage and the surrounding area. When my constituent farmers contacted my office after hearing that their local offices were slated for closure we immediately set about making a case to the federal and state FSA offices for keeping these facilities open. Today we learned that these offices will likely remain open." "Our farmers rely heavily on their local FSA offices for a wide variety of important services, including acquiring loans, assisting conservation efforts, and helping farmers manage their businesses. Now, farmers in the 17th District can be confident in the knowledge that someone is nearby to help them and their businesses become and remain successful. "My thanks and appreciation goes out to Ohio State Executive Director John Stevenson for his patience and willingness to hear to my concerns regarding the potential closures of our local offices." * * * In May, the U.S. House of Representatives passed an amendment to the Agriculture Appropriations bill offered by Congressman Ryan that will allow for a public hearing to take place no later than 30 days before the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture approves a state's request to close of local FSA office. Under current law, communities protesting plans for closure and relocation of local FSA offices may only offer public comment after the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture approves the proposal of a State Farm Service Agency. The Agriculture Appropriations bill currently awaits approval by the Senate
06.01.2006	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Niles) announced today that he and Michigan Congressman Dale Kildee (D-Flint) have introduced legislation, the Urban Development Act of 2006, to create a program to provide federal matching funds for the demolition of condemned and tax foreclosed residential housing in eligible urban areas. To qualify for up to $500,000 in funds, a city must have a population above 40,000 and have experienced a 10 percent decrease in population over the course of the last two reports issued by the U.S. Census Bureau. In addition to being used for demolitions, the funds could also be spent on remediation of the sites prior to demolition and, after the demolition is finished, rehabilitation of the sites into public-use spaces. "If enacted, this legislation will provide needed funding for a city like Youngstown to address the problem of urban blight," said Congressman Ryan. "Areas that are now public hazards could become parks, gardens or trails, leaving neighborhoods that are safer and healthier." "Congressman Ryan is taking significant steps to assist us in addressing the enormous and numerous problems that these blighted structures create in our neighborhoods," said Jay Williams, Mayor of Youngstown. "We look forward to advocating and working with him in any way that we can, to bring success to this measure." Cities that become eligible for funding would also be encouraged to work with community leaders, resident and citizens' associations, law enforcement officials, and fire departments when deciding which residential housing should be demolished.
05.24.2006	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) Tuesday night, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Department of Agriculture Appropriations Bill containing an amendment offered on the floor by Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Ohio). Ryan's amendment provides expanded opportunities for communities to comment on potential closures of Farm Service Agency (FSA) offices. Ryan offered the amendment due to concerns about what is currently taking place in Ohio and other states. A recent proposal by the Ohio State Farm Service Agency proposed closing and relocating local FSA offices in Trumbull and Portage Counties to Ashtabula and Stark, respectively. Congressman Ryan contacted the Ohio FSA state office to express his concerns about the potential closures and encouraged the Ohio FSA office to seek input from local farmers that would be affected. "The bottom line is that we need to have complete information about the needs of family farmers and ranchers before Congress or the Department make radical decisions about FSA Personnel levels," Congressman Ryan said. "This process should start at the county committees and involve an office-by-office and regional analysis. Only then can our State FSA offices and the USDA make the best decisions on office closures and relocations. My amendment will help ensure that everyone's voice is heard early enough in the process." Under current law, communities protesting plans for closure and relocation of local FSA offices may only offer public comment after the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture approves the proposal of a State Farm Service Agency. Ryan's amendment will allow for a public hearing to take place no later than 30 days before the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture approves a state's request for closure.
05.09.2006	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Niles) applauded today's announcement by Niles-based RTI International Metals that the company had signed a deal with Airbus worth at least $800 million over 10 years. RTI will supply titanium products to produce the Airbus family of commercial aircraft, including the new A-380 and A-350 programs. As a result of the contract, RTI said it will begin a $35 million facilities expansion program, including new and upgraded melting and forging capacity. RTI also said that the contract will lead to new jobs in Niles and an expansion of the Niles facility. "This is an important win for the Mahoning Valley," said Congressman Ryan. "RTI's agreement with Airbus will lead to new jobs and new investment for our area. We should all be very proud of the success of this company and its workers." Throughout his tenure in Congress, Ryan has been a constant champion of manufacturing and trade policies that help domestic manufacturers like RTI remain strong and competitive in the global marketplace. Those efforts include fighting to ensure the U.S. Defense Department abides by the Berry Amendment, which requires that military equipment be constructed with American-made titanium. "Representative Tim Ryan has worked hard to create the conditions that made this contract possible," added Tim Rupert, CEO of RTI. "We at RTI appreciate his support."
04.25.2006	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) has joined other Democratic members of the House Education and Workforce Committee to hold a national online e-forum on college affordability. Members of Congress have posted their opening statements on the e-forum's website and are inviting students, parents and others to submit written testimony describing their experiences financing a college education. Individuals may also email video testimony to CollegeForAll@mail.house.gov. The e-forum is an opportunity for parents, students and others concerned about rising college costs to communicate directly with Members of Congress and suggest ways in which Congress can improve college access and affordability for all Americans. Some submissions may be entered into the Congressional Record. Congressman Ryan is the sponsor of the "College Textbook Tax Credit Act", the "Affordable Books for College Act" and is a cosponsor of the "Reverse the Raid on Student Aid Act". More information on how to submit testimony can be found at https://edworkforce.house.gov/democrats/makecollegeaffordable.shtml The text of Congressman Ryan's opening statement for the e-forum is included below: * * * Opening Statement from Congressman Tim Ryan (D-OH) Welcome to the first-ever congressional e-forum on college affordability. I'm Congressman Tim Ryan from Ohio's 17th Congressional District, and I hope you'll explore this e-forum and share your own unique concerns and experiences. Democratic members of the House Education and Workforce Committee created this e-forum as an opportunity for parents, students, and others concerned about rising college costs to communicate directly to Members of Congress. You know more than anyone about the obstacles students and parents face as they try to finance a quality higher education amidst rising student loan interest rates, cuts to federal student aid programs, higher loan fees, decreases in the purchasing power of federal grants, and increases in costs for textbooks and supplies. It's unfortunate that college affordability has become an issue that divides Congress along partisan lines, but the facts are all too clear. Earlier this year, Republicans in Congress passed a budget bill that cut a net $12 billion from federal student aid programs the largest cut to student aid in the history of our country and one that students and parents will surely feel. Republicans also raised the fixed interest rate on parent borrowers from 7.9 percent to 8.5 percent. Democrats, on the other hand, have been fighting back forcefully in both the House and Senate to reverse the Republican Congress' raid on student aid and we'll continue to offer proposals that ensure college remains affordable. For example, I've introduced bills that would help make college textbooks more affordable. Congressman George Miller (D-CA), the Ranking Democrat on the Education Committee and host of this e-forum, has introduced legislation to cut loan interest rates in half for student and parent borrowers. Congressman Miller's legislation ("Reverse the Raid on Student Aid Act") would save the typical student loan borrower about $5,600 over the life of his or her student loans. In addition, Democrats are also behind proposals to boost college participation rates for minority students and restore the buying power of the federal Pell Grant. Students and parents should not have to bear the weight of overwhelming debt because they've chosen to further their education a choice whose benefits surely extend to all of society. If America is stay competitive in today's global economy, we must ensure that we have all our players on the field, playing at their best ability. Please take this opportunity to share your own experiences trying to finance college and tell us what you think Congress should do to expand college access and affordability
04.03.2006	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) In a letter sent Monday afternoon to Forum Health's chief executive officer, Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Niles) and Congressman Ted Strickland (D-Lisbon) expressed their concern with the potential consequences of Forum Health's restructuring on the City of Youngstown, particularly access to medical care if Northside and Tod Children's Hospitals are closed. Ryan and Strickland also urged Forum to involve its employees in the decision-making process and offered to meet with stakeholders to find solutions that best serve Forum Health, its employees and the community. The text of the letter is included below: April 3, 2006 Dr. Keith Ghezzi Forum Health 3530 Belmont Ave., Suite 7 Youngstown, Ohio 44505 Dear Dr. Ghezzi: As the U.S. Representatives for the Mahoning Valley, we are writing to express our concerns and offer our help as Forum Health goes through the difficult process of restructuring. All hospitals - especially those located in our urban areas - are facing serious financial difficulties as a result of cuts in government funding, changing market conditions and the growing number of uninsured patients. It is our understanding that Northside and Tod Children's Hospitals pose particular financial challenges to your organization. As a result, these facilities are under consideration for significant downsizing or even closure. While we fully recognize the unique challenges associated with operating older facilities in areas with a significant population of uninsured patients, we would urge Forum Health to look at more than just the financial information before making any final decisions. The loss of these medical facilities would have grave implications for the health and welfare of the residents of Youngstown and the surrounding communities that they now serve. The loss of Northside's 200 beds would be devastating. We are sure you are aware that Humility of Mary Health Partners has indicated that they do not have sufficient bed capacity at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center to meet the demand that would result from this loss. While we recognize that there are other facilities in the greater Mahoning Valley, we have serious concerns that residents will not have access to needed medical care because traveling to these more distant facilities will just not be possible for the largely older, economically distressed population that Northside serves. These facilities are also vital to the region's economy. In addition to the obvious implications for the approximately 2,000 people who work there, the facilities generate about $2.4 million in income tax for the city of Youngstown. Given the high concentration of poverty in the city - nearly 80% of the students in the Youngstown City Schools are eligible for the free lunch program - the loss of these revenues would be devastating for the community. Furthermore, if the facilities were to close, it would have a significant negative impact on the property values in the surrounding neighborhoods. In addition to weighing the importance of these facilities to the community, we would also urge you to fully involve your employees in the process. Your consulting firm, Wellspring Partners, would serve you well by gaining information on operational performance directly from the dedicated men and women who work at each of your facilities throughout the Valley. These employees make significant contributions to the high quality medical care that Forum Health currently provides to the community and could offer valuable insights into the many issues that you face as you move forward. Again, we would like to offer our services as Forum Health works through these difficult times. We are sure that we speak on behalf of the entire community when we say that we stand ready to assist you in any way possible. We would welcome the opportunity to meet with you and other stakeholders to explore avenues that will best serve Forum Health, its employees and the community that depends on Forum's healthcare services. As always, we will continue to work with our colleagues and the federal agencies that regulate the healthcare industry as we work to find solutions to the issues that you are facing. Sincerely, Tim Ryan Ted Strickland Member of Congress Member of Congress
03.16.2006	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) will introduce a resolution today in the U.S. House of Representatives honoring the contributions of Irish-Americans to American democracy. "As people all over the world prepare to celebrate St. Patrick's Day, Americans are reminded of the great contributions and sacrifices Irish-Americans have made for our country," said Ryan. "The history of the United States bears the imprint of many great Irish-Americans, and their achievements deserve recognition." The resolution has 34 bipartisan cosponsors.
03.14.2006	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan announced today that he has cosponsored H.R. 4808 The Unfair Chinese Automotive Tariff Equalization Act. The bipartisan legislation introduced by Reps. Walter Jones (R-NC) and Dale Kildee (D-MI) would prevent imports of passenger cars from China until the U.S. and Chinese tariffs on these items are equal. Currently, China imposes a 28 percent tariff on American-made cars while the U.S. imposes only a 2.5 percent tariff on Chinese-made cars. "This legislation is an important step towards fixing the uneven playing field on which China and America compete economically," said Congressman Ryan. "The Chinese government levies tariffs on our cars that are 11 times higher than tariffs we impose on their cars. It makes no sense to allow this to continue. Inaction by Congress could put at risk thousands of jobs in the U.S. automotive industry." The need for this legislation has been augmented by the plans of two Chinese manufacturers Chery and Geely to export low-priced, Chinese-made cars to the U.S. as soon as next year with the goal of selling 250,000 cars annually in the U.S. market. As the U.S. auto market has become increasingly competitive through globalization, it has become even more important that the U.S. holds our trading partners accountable to fair trade practices. "Unreasonably high tariffs on American-made cars is just one of many unfair advantages the Chinese government affords itself at the expense of American workers," added Congressman Ryan. "China already manipulates their currency, violates intellectual property rights, pays their workforce pennies a day and lacks adequate labor and environmental standards that American companies must abide by." H.R. 4808 does not require U.S. tariffs on passenger cars to be raised or Chinese tariffs to be lowered. Instead, the legislation states that until tariff rates are equal, no Chinese-made cars may be imported into America. Congressman Tim Ryan is a leading advocate of American Manufacturing in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is the main sponsor of the Chinese Currency Act, which would stop China's illegal currency manipulation and has 157 bipartisan cosponsors. Ryan also co-chairs the Congressional Manufacturing Caucus.
03.02.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Niles) delivered testimony today at a hearing of the International Trade Commission (ITC). The purpose of the hearing was to conduct a review of anti-dumping tariffs on carbon and alloy seamless standard, line and pressure pipe from the Czech Republic, Japan, Mexico, Romania and South Africa. V&M Star produces seamless pipe in Youngstown. A copy of Congressman Ryan's testimony is included below along with background information on V&M Star and the sunset review process: ---------------------- Testimony of the Honorable Tim Ryan, U.S. Representative for the 17th District of Ohio Seamless Pipe Sunset Hearing - March 2, 2006 at the U.S. International Trade Commission Good morning Chairman Koplan and members of the Commission. My name is Tim Ryan and I represent the 17th Congressional District of Ohio. I return once again to this Commission to provide my testimony on behalf of the American steel industry and, this time, for V&M Star, which has a facility located in Youngstown, Ohio. I appreciate the opportunity to appear before you today and explain the importance of this case for my constituents in Ohio. V&M Star is one of only a few steel companies left in Youngstown, a city in the heart of the "Steel Valley" an area referred to by some as the "Rust Belt". Although V&M is headquartered in Europe, its plant in Youngstown, Ohio is a place where good jobs provide families an opportunity to put their kids through college, pay taxes, and contribute to their local communities. As a producer of large diameter seamless line pipe, V&M's Youngstown plant has nearly 400 workers making pipe that is used in applications such as oil, gas or water pipelines or utility distribution systems. Over the past three years, I have provided testimony several times before the Commission to express my support for the steel industry and to express my belief that unfair trade practices by foreign producers are crippling America's domestic manufacturing industry and can no longer be tolerated. I have witnessed first hand how unfairly traded imports forced many of the steel companies out of my district. When Maverick Tube Corporation shut down its Campbell pipe plant (formerly LTV) in mid 2003, it marked the closing of the last remaining Youngstown Sheet and Tube facility a facility that stretched for miles along the Mahoning River. The company once employed over 20,000 workers. Today, it's all gone. In my previous testimony, I highlighted to the Commission the economic plight of my district in northeastern Ohio, but I would like to touch on it again. In my district, we have one of the highest poverty rates in the country. 80% of the children who go to Youngstown City Schools are below the poverty rate and they all receive free and reduced lunches. We have school children who have serious risks of lead poisoning because we haven't been able to afford lead paint removal. Our school systems are badly under-funded because our tax base has been shrinking for years and manufacturing companies have been shutting down. Our companies, Mr. Chairman, are vital components to the economy of my district. It is a great help to our community that V&M Star decided to keep this facility in Youngstown. Besides making quality products for their customers, the company provides good paying jobs to local workers and these wages are spent in the local community. In fact I understand the Mayor of Youngstown also submitted written testimony to the Commission to emphasize the importance of this company and its workers to the local economy. Not only is V&M one of the largest high wage employers in the city of Youngstown today, it is also one of the largest taxpayers with annual tax payments of over $10 million. I realize that the Commission will carefully review the record on this sunset review. I also know the reality is that without the continuation of these orders, imports will increase and will most likely threaten V&M and other seamless producers. V&M has explained to me that they are quite concerned about future imports from Japan and Mexico. Both countries have more than adequate seamless capacity to resume larger volumes of exports to the U.S. market at dumped prices. The outcome of this sunset review is very important to V&M Star, their workers, the greater Youngstown community and to the entire domestic seamless pipe industry. I have worked hard in Congress to ensure that our domestic manufacturers have a level playing field in which to compete, and I hope that the Commission will take the appropriate steps to ensure that these antidumping orders are not revoked. Thank you for providing me with this opportunity to testify. I know that you will find for American steel industry and its workers after reviewing all of the facts. ------------- Sunset Review for Carbon and Alloy Seamless Standard, Line and Pressure Pipe from the Czech Republic, Japan, Mexico, Romania and South Africa Sunset Hearing at U.S. International Trade Commission - Washington, DC (March 2, 2006) Investigation Nos. 731-TA-846-850 (Review) Background on Five-Year Sunset Reviews The Uruguay Round Agreements Act, approved in late 1994 amended the antidumping and countervailing duty laws. As a result, the "Agreement" included a new provision which requires the Commerce Department (DOC) and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) to conduct reviews no later than five years after an antidumping or countervailing duty order is issued. This review is required to determine whether revoking the order would be likely to lead to continuation or recurrence of dumping or subsidies and of material injury. In these reviews the Commerce Department has jurisdiction to determine if ending this order would lead to continued dumping or subsidization. The ITC has jurisdiction to determine if material injury exists and in accordance with their authority holds a hearing to receive expert testimony from parties in this review. The Commission conducts five-year reviews on all orders that were issued since January 1, 1995. The Commerce Department issues a notice no later than 30 days prior to the five-year anniversary that they will initiate a review. Following the Commerce Department's initiation of the five-year review, the ITC will establish a schedule for the review. These five-year reviews are normally conducted within 360 days of initiation of the review. Both Commerce and the Commission have the authority to extend these deadlines. Finding: In five-year sunset reviews, the ITC determines whether revocation of the AD or CVD duty would be likely to lead to continuation or recurrence of material injury to the U.S. industry. If the Commission's determination is affirmative, the order will remain in place. If the Commission's determination is negative, the order will be revoked. Five-Year Sunset Review Case Chronology 2000 Commerce issues antidumping orders on imports from Japan, South Africa, Czech Republic, Mexico and Romania May 2005 ITC announces five-year reviews August 2005 ITC issues decision to conduct five-year reviews. September 2005 Commerce issues final results in five-year reviews. ITC establishes the schedule for five-year reviews. March 2, 2006 ITC hearing on five-year sunset review April 13, 2006 Scheduled date for ITC vote on five-year sunset review. April 26, 2006 Commission's determinations due to Commerce. Background on V&M Star - Youngstown, Ohio and Houston, Texas V&M Star has production facilities in Youngstown, Ohio and Houston, Texas. Both facilities are involved in the production of large diameter (greater than 4.5 inches and not over 16 inches in outside diameter) These seamless pipe products are used primarily for applications such as oil, gas, or water pipeline, or utility distribution systems. They are manufactured to meet the guidelines established by the American Petroleum Institute (API) and meet the API 5L specification. The Youngstown facility has an electric arc furnace which melts scrap into steel which is cast into round products which are then converted into seamless API line pipe. The Houston plant is the "heat treating" facility which provides further value to the product before it enters the market place for distribution to the consumer. These are the company's only manufacturing facilities and together they employ 450 workers.
01.03.2006	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) Congressman Tim Ryan (D-Niles) announced today that a key legislative proposal he has championed for the past three years will soon become law. Since March of 2003, Ryan has been urging his colleagues to support his legislation to ease the burden of student loan payments for America's service men and women. Ryan's proposal was included in the Budget Reconciliation Conference Report that passed Congress on Wednesday on a party-line vote. No Democrat voted in favor of the bill. In the 108th Congress, Congressman Ryan introduced the "Active Reservists and National Guard Student Loan Relief Act" and re-introduced an expanded version in the 109th Congress under the title "Higher Education Loan Program for Our Troops Act" (HELP Our Troops Act). In July of last year, Ryan worked with fellow members of the Education and Workforce Committee Reps. Tom Osborn (R-NE) and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) to negotiate for the inclusion of his legislation as an amendment to the higher education reauthorization bill. That bill has not yet passed Congress. "There's a lot wrong with the Budget Reconciliation bill, but my Republican colleagues did get at least one thing right when they added this provision to their bill," said Congressman Ryan. "I'm disappointed that our troops had to wait so long for this legislation. Nonetheless, I'm very pleased that Congress came to see the need for it. As a result, America's service men and women will be able to concentrate on the crucial task before them, rather than having to worry about their student loans. Specifically, the new legislation would provide deferments of student loan payments for all active duty military personnel who have been deployed as part of a military operation or national emergency involving terrorism. "We have asked our troops to make heroic sacrifices, and they will continue to meet those challenges with distinction and valor," said Congressman Ryan. "Though our service men and women are bearing an ever-increasing physical and mental price for this war, this legislation will ensure they bear one less financial price. Before the Higher Education Act's reauthorization in 1992 and throughout the Vietnam War military personnel deployed during war time were entitled to receive mandatory deferment on their federal student loans. However, that policy of mandatory deferments ended during the 1992 Higher Ed amendments, which dramatically consolidated the criteria for granting student loan deferments.