02.28.2019	(WASHINGTON, DC)---Congressman Mike Rogers reminded folks today that he is holding weekly events when Congress is in session that are open to any constituents visiting Washington, D.C. “Mornings with Mike” events take place in Rogers’ Washington office in the Rayburn House Office Building. The meetings offer East Alabamians a unique chance to meet with Congressman Rogers while enjoying coffee and donuts in his office. “With Spring around the corner, Washington can be crowded with tourists and visitors in town to see the cherry blossoms in bloom. I want to remind anyone who will be visiting the DC-area to stop by for a cup of coffee. “I have always had my offices open to everyone across the Third Congressional District, but these weekly events give folks the chance to come in and share their concerns and visit with my staff and me. I hope people will take advantage of them when in our nation’s capital,” Rogers said. The event is hosted each session week on Wednesday morning at 9:30 a.m. EDT in 2184 Rayburn. Anyone interested in attending should sign up on Mike’s website to ensure enough coffee and donuts are ordered each week. The dates for the March meetings are: 6th, 13th and 27th. Please visit https://mikerogers.house.gov/mornings-with-mike for more information, or call Rogers’ Washington, D.C. office at 202.225.3261. ? -###- (WASHINGTON, DC)---Congressman Mike Rogers reminded folks today that he is holding weekly events when Congress is in session that are open to any constituents visiting Washington, D.C. “Mornings with Mike” events take place in Rogers’ Washington office in the Rayburn House Office Building. The meetings offer East Alabamians a unique chance to meet with Congressman Rogers while enjoying coffee and donuts in his office. “With Spring around the corner, Washington can be crowded with tourists and visitors in town to see the cherry blossoms in bloom. I want to remind anyone who will be visiting the DC-area to stop by for a cup of coffee. “I have always had my offices open to everyone across the Third Congressional District, but these weekly events give folks the chance to come in and share their concerns and visit with my staff and me. I hope people will take advantage of them when in our nation’s capital,” Rogers said. The event is hosted each session week on Wednesday morning at 9:30 a.m. EDT in 2184 Rayburn. Anyone interested in attending should sign up on Mike’s website to ensure enough coffee and donuts are ordered each week. The dates for the March meetings are: 6th, 13th and 27th. Please visit https://mikerogers.house.gov/mornings-with-mike for more information, or call Rogers’ Washington, D.C. office at 202.225.3261. -###-
02.25.2019	(WASHINGTON, DC)—Congressman Mike Rogers announced the launch of his new Congressional website today, saying he hoped Third District constituents find the updated site easier to navigate and more informative. “With everything available on the internet, I hope this new website will be a place folks will come for news, constituent services and information,” Rogers said. “The site was created to be more user-friendly, so I want folks to let me, or a member of my staff know, how we can further improve it.” Rogers said the website has several new features to allow constituents to sign up for his eNewsletter and “Mornings with Mike” events in addition to linking to his social media and the House Floor schedule. “Even when back in D.C. voting, I always want to be as accessible as I can to the folks of East Alabama. I hope this new website will put my office at your fingertips,” Rogers added. Rogers serves as Ranking Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security and is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. To visit the new website, go to http://mikerogers.house.gov. - ### - (WASHINGTON, DC)—Congressman Mike Rogers announced the launch of his new Congressional website today, saying he hoped Third District constituents find the updated site easier to navigate and more informative. “With everything available on the internet, I hope this new website will be a place folks will come for news, constituent services and information,” Rogers said. “The site was created to be more user-friendly, so I want folks to let me, or a member of my staff know, how we can further improve it.” Rogers said the website has several new features to allow constituents to sign up for his eNewsletter and “Mornings with Mike” events in addition to linking to his social media and the House Floor schedule. “Even when back in D.C. voting, I always want to be as accessible as I can to the folks of East Alabama. I hope this new website will put my office at your fingertips,” Rogers added. Rogers serves as Ranking Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security and is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. To visit the new website, go to http://mikerogers.house.gov. - ### -
02.06.2019	(WASHINGTON, D.C.)—As most folks may have seen on television, on Tuesday, February 5th, President Trump made his way to the House of Representatives Chamber to finally give his State of the Union address to Congress and to all Americans. I was thrilled with President Trump’s inspiring vision for our nation. And I was particularly pleased with his tone and call for unity across party lines. This State of the Union address was delayed due to the partial federal government shutdown that dragged on for 35 days. The rescheduled speech happened to be on the heels of an impressive Jobs Report for January that was released on Friday, February 1st. Over 300,000 jobs were added proving that our economy is truly booming under President Trump’s leadership. I strongly support President Trump’s call to secure our porous Southwest border with Mexico. Our sovereignty during this national security and humanitarian crisis at the border has become threatened all over two words: border wall. Semantics are taking our security hostage. Call it whatever you want, but walls work and we need one now. As the top Republican on the Committee on Homeland Security and a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, our country’s security is one of my top priorities and I will continue to support President Trump as he works to secure our border and keep our nation safe. As a father of three, I was pleased to hear President Trump talk about the importance of every life – born and unborn. The recent news from New York and Virginia on late-term abortions is plain and simple murder. I appreciate President Trump’s strong stance on this issue and will always stand up for the rights of the unborn. They are precious gifts from God. As we move forward, I hope Congress can come up on an agreement to secure our borders and finally build the wall. As always, I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter and the Rogers’ Roundup by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at facebook.com/CongressmanMikeDRogers, follow me on Twitter and Instagram using the handle RepMikeRogersAL, and subscribe to my YouTube page at youtube.com/MikeRogersAL03.
02.05.2019	(WASHINGTON, DC)—Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after President Donald Trump delivered his State of the Union Address to Congress in the House Chamber. The address comes on the heels of Friday’s January Jobs Report which shows continued growth and a strong economy. “Tonight, President Trump reaffirmed in his speech what makes our country great. His vision for America is attainable if we all work together and his eloquent call for unity will only make our nation stronger. I look forward to continuing to work with President Trump to build an even stronger economy, ensure our national security remains a top priority and secure our Southwest border with Mexico,” Rogers said. Rogers serves as Ranking Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security and is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. -###-
02.04.2019	(WASHINGTON, DC)—Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after cosponsoring H. Res. 72, which condemns all anti-Israel and anti-Semitic hatred recently promoted by Louis Farrakhan and Democratic Members of Congress. “The growing hatred we hear spewed from people like Mr. Farrakhan has no place in American society. More shockingly, this hate has bled into the halls of Congress by Liberal Democrats, and it is simply unacceptable. I will always stand with Israel and against anti-Semitism in whatever form it takes,” Rogers said. Rogers serves as Ranking Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security and is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. -###-
01.31.2019	(WASHINGTON, DC)---Congressman Mike Rogers reminded folks today that he is holding weekly events when Congress is in session that are open to any constituents visiting Washington, D.C. “Mornings with Mike” events take place in Rogers’ Washington office in the Rayburn House Office Building. The meetings offer East Alabamians a unique chance to meet with Congressman Rogers while enjoying coffee and donuts in his office. “With the 116th Congress gearing up, D.C. can be a very busy and crowded place. I want to remind anyone visiting the area to stop by for a visit. “I have always had my offices open to everyone across the Third Congressional District, but these weekly events give folks the chance to come in and share their concerns and visit with my staff and me. I hope people will take advantage of them when in our nation’s capital,” Rogers said. The event is hosted each session week on Wednesday morning at 9:30 a.m. EDT in 2184 Rayburn. Anyone interested in attending should sign up on Mike’s website to ensure enough coffee and donuts are ordered each week. The dates for the February meetings are: 6th, 13th and 27th. Please visit https://mikerogers.house.gov/mornings-with-mike for more information, or call Rogers’ Washington, D.C. office at 202.225.3261. -###-
01.24.2019	(WASHINGTON, DC)—Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after cosponsoring the H.R 38, the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act of 2019. This bill would allow individuals who meet the qualifications to carry or have in their possession a concealed handgun in another state that allows individuals to carry concealed firearms. “This is simply a common-sense piece of legislation. In most instances, law-abiding folks own a handgun for their personal safety and security. This legislation would allow those qualified individuals to be able to protect themselves as they cross state lines. As a gunowner and a champion for Second Amendment rights, I am pleased to support this legislation,” Rogers said. Rogers serves as Ranking Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security and is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. -###-
01.18.2019	(WASHINGTON, D.C.)—Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today in advance of Monday’s national day of remembrance recognizing the life and legacy of the late Civil Rights leader, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. “Dr. King’s vision of equality is one each of should continue to strive for. His legacy and words continue to live on and inspire us. Let’s all take a minute to remember Dr. King today and use his life as an example we should all try to follow,” Rogers said. - ### -
01.17.2019	(WASHINGTON, DC)—Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after President Donald Trump announced the release of the Missile Defense Review (MDR) from the Pentagon. “Missile defense is vital to securing our homeland, our forces abroad and our allies, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future. This Missile Defense Review lays out smart and strategic policies that will guide our missile defenses and posture to counter our adversaries through an increased focus on advanced technology. I am also pleased to see it builds on many of the policies we have supported in the Strategic Forces Subcommittee for the last several years and look forward to continue working with President Trump to implement these policies,” Rogers said. Rogers previously served as Chairman of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee the past two Congresses. Rogers serves as Ranking Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security and a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. -###-
01.09.2019	(WASHINGTON, D.C.)—On January 3rd, the 116th Congress convened under the control of Speaker Nancy Pelosi. As folks across East Alabama know, a few days before Christmas, the federal government partially shutdown because of the Senate’s unwillingness to consider House passed legislation that funded the government for the rest of the fiscal year along with over $5 billion for the border wall system. I, along with many of my House Republican colleagues, stand with President Trump that we need to build the border wall on our Southwest border with Mexico. Now, we find ourselves in a new year and a new Congress with the federal government partially closed, as of this writing, and the crisis continues unabated at our border. Thousands of people from Central America continue to make the extremely dangerous journey, putting themselves and their children in harm’s way, drawn here because of our porous Southwest border. The continued availability of this illegal entryway only exacerbates the humanitarian crisis. This is in addition to the national security crisis America faces because of all the things we don’t know about the folks coming here illegally. As of now, Democrats are coming to the table with no solutions or offers of compromise, but just simple refusal to build a wall. Nancy Pelosi, who supports open borders and sanctuary cities, has even gone as far as calling a border wall “immoral.” As if the Democratic shut down wasn’t enough, when Pelosi took control of the House, Democrats hit the ground running to push a liberal agenda from day one. Our first week back, Democrats voted to raise taxes on working families as well as allow our taxpayer dollars to be used for abortions in foreign countries. Talk about what’s truly immoral. They also passed what I called in my House Floor speech a “smoke and mirrors” vote to reopen the government without a cent of funding for the border wall. But of course, instead of staying in town to do their jobs and find a way to reopen the federal government, Democrats blocked that vote and headed home for the weekend. As the incoming Ranking Member on the House Committee on Homeland Security, securing our borders is a priority for me. I will continue to stand with President Trump because I know firsthand how dangerous the situation is if we don’t take control of our borders. A sovereign nation is a nation with borders. As always, I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter and the Rogers’ Roundup by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at facebook.com/CongressmanMikeDRogers, follow me on Twitter and Instagram using the handle RepMikeRogersAL, and subscribe to my YouTube page at youtube.com/MikeRogersAL03.
01.07.2019	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after cosponsoring the Life at Conception Act of 2019. This bill declares that life begins at conception, giving legal protection to the unborn child from the very start. “As we approach the anniversary of the Roe v. Wade decision, I am always reminded of how precious life is. As the father of three beautiful children, I never take for granted the gift of life and I will always stand up for the rights of the unborn. Those unborn babies can’t speak for themselves, but I will be their voice here in Congress,” Rogers said. Rogers serves as Ranking Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security. -###-
01.04.2019	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after reintroducing his bill, H.R. 204, the American Sovereignty Restoration Act of 2019. This bill would halt all involvement of the United States with the United Nations (U.N.). “One of my first priorities in this new Congress was to make sure this bill was reintroduced. The United Nations is a disaster and our country bankrolls over 20 percent of its annual budget. The UN continues to attack our greatest ally Israel, and they continue to attack American ideals like the Second Amendment. President Trump has done his part to reign in the UN’s continual attacks on American sovereignty, but it’s time we did more,” Rogers said. Rogers serves as Ranking Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security. -###-
01.02.2019	Congressman Mike Rogers reminded folks today that he is holding weekly events when Congress is in session that are open to any constituents visiting Washington, D.C. “Mornings with Mike” events take place in Rogers’ Washington office in the Rayburn House Office Building. The meetings offer East Alabamians a unique chance to meet with Congressman Rogers while enjoying coffee and donuts in his office. “With the 116th Congress gearing up, D.C. can be a very busy and crowded place. I want to remind anyone visiting the area to stop by for a visit. “I have always had my offices open to everyone across the Third Congressional District, but these weekly events give folks the chance to come in and share their concerns and visit with my staff and me. I hope people will take advantage of them when in our nation’s capital,” Rogers said. The event is hosted each session week on Wednesday morning at 9:30 a.m. EDT in 2184 Rayburn. Anyone interested in attending should sign up on Mike’s website to ensure enough coffee and donuts are ordered each week. The dates for the January meetings are: 9th and 16th. Please visit https://mikerogers.house.gov/mornings-with-mike for more information, or call Rogers’ Washington, D.C. office at 202.225.3261. -###-
12.20.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after supporting the House of Representatives’ version of the Continuing Resolution that includes funding for President Trump’s request for a border wall and funds the government through February 8, 2019. “Securing our porous border with Mexico is a matter of national security. I fully support building the wall and helping President Trump fulfill his promise to Americans. “We are also keeping our promise to America’s farmers and producers by providing important and necessary disaster relief to those hit hardest by Hurricanes Florence and Michael,” Rogers said. The House bill includes $5.7 billion for a wall along our Southern border and $7.8 billion for natural disaster relief. “Playing political games over a matter of national security is unacceptable, and I urge the Senate to support our national security and farmers,” Rogers added. Rogers will serve as Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security in the 116th Congress and serves as a member of the House Armed Services and Agriculture Committees. -###-
12.17.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers (AL-03) announced today that Chris Vieson will be the Staff Director for the Committee on Homeland Security. Rogers said, “I am thrilled that Chris will be joining the Committee as the Staff Director. His knowledge and leadership abilities are extraordinary and make Chris a perfect choice for this role.” Mr. Vieson said “I am honored for the opportunity to work for Ranking Member Rogers and all the Members on the Committee. The Committee is at the forefront of vital issues facing the nation and I am thrilled that Rep. Rogers has placed his trust in me to help him lead.” Mr. Vieson was most recently Staff Director for the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. Prior to that, he served as a trusted aide to former Majority Leader Eric Cantor and the House Republican leadership for nearly a decade. Vieson also was a partner at Public Strategies Washington where he advised numerous Fortune 500 companies. Congressman Rogers was elected Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security by the House Republican Conference for the 116th Congress. He has served on the Committee on Homeland Security since 2005 and has served as a subcommittee chairman or ranking member on three separate occasions. Moving into the next Congress, Congressman Rogers will continue to focus on defending our borders, visa security and protecting our transportation systems across the nation. Further, as the threat environment of tomorrow changes, Congressman Rogers will spend considerable time discussing cybersecurity, including the security of cloud computing, artificial intelligence and hardening our critical infrastructure. Each of these issues presents a unique set of challenges and opportunities for the Committee and Congressman Rogers will be steadfast in examining them and their impacts on national security. ###
12.12.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the Conference Report for H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018 passed the House 369-47. The report passed the Senate earlier this week and will now go to President Trump’s desk for signature into law. “I am proud to vote for the Farm Bill. As a Conferee on the bill, I know firsthand just how important this bill is to our nation. This Farm Bill strengthens the farm safety net for Alabama’s farmers and producers and it provides five years of certainty. America’s farm economy is still struggling, and this bill will be a much-needed shot in the arm. “The bill also improves the SNAP (food stamp) program integrity while incentivizing work for those who are on government benefits. The rural development programs in the bill will be great for folks across Alabama who need rural broadband, and the research funding in the Farm Bill is great news for universities like Tuskegee and Auburn. Finally, I am pleased to say language I introduced with Rep. Terri Sewell was included in the bill. This important language helps provide grants for folks with failing wastewater infrastructure.” Rogers serves as a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee and a member of the House Armed Service Committee and House Agriculture Committee.
12.04.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee made the following statement today after Secretary of State Mike Pompeo made the announcement that Russia is formally in material breach of Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty. Chairman Rogers said: “Russia has been in clear violation of the Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces Treaty for years now. I applaud President Trump’s action today and his way ahead to address the threats posed by Russia’s violations in a direct manner with clear deadlines for compliance and consequences for Russian failure to comply. A treaty that is only adhered to by the United States inhibits our ability to defend ourselves and our allies and we should not continue to be bound it.” -###-
11.30.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after being elected once again to the Republican Steering Committee this week by his colleagues. The purpose of the Steering Committee is to recommend Republican Members of Congress to serve as leads on Full Committees and recommend individual Member committee assignments based on their background, level of expertise and seniority. This is Rogers’ third term on the Steering Committee. “I am honored to have been elected again to serve on this committee. As the Steering Committee representative for the Alabama and Tennessee delegations, I look forward to advocating on their behalf before the House Republican Conference. And as one of the representatives of Southern states, I look forward to working on bringing regional balance to chairs and committee assignments,” Rogers said. Rogers was selected as the Region V representative which encompasses Alabama and Tennessee. The appointment is for the upcoming 116th Congress. - ### -
11.30.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after being chosen to serve as Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security in the 116th Congress. “I am honored to be chosen by my colleagues to serve as Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security. Having served on the Committee since its inception in 2005, I have the experience and expertise needed to lead conservative homeland security efforts in the House. Most importantly, I stand ready to fight for President Trump’s national security priorities including building the wall. I am proud to be the voice for Republicans’ principals on critical security issues facing our nation, and I’ll bring that to the Committee on the first day of the 116th Congress,” Rogers said. Congressman Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) who will serve as Minority Leader in the 116th Congress added, “I am looking forward to having Mike Rogers as the leading Republican on the House Committee on Homeland Security. Protecting America and the American people has been a top priority for every Republican in Congress and Mike has been a championing voice. I know Mike will keep that steadfast leadership as he approaches this new role.” Background: Congressman Rogers will be Alabama’s only House member to serve as a Ranking Member in the 116th Congress. He has served on the Committee on Homeland Security since 2005 and has served as a subcommittee chairman or ranking member on three separate occasions. Moving into the next Congress, Congressman Rogers will continue to focus on defending our borders, visa security and protecting our transportation systems across the nation. Further, as the threat environment of tomorrow changes, Congressman Rogers will spend considerable time discussing cybersecurity, including the security of cloud computing, artificial intelligence and hardening our critical infrastructure. Each of these issues presents a unique set of challenges and opportunities for the Committee and Congressman Rogers will be steadfast in examining them and their impacts on national security. -###-
11.28.2018	Every year during the Christmas season, I like to highlight just a few of the things folks across East Alabama are doing for each other. Below is a small sample of ways our fellow Alabamians have cared for each other over the past year. In Talladega County, The Care House in Sylacauga helps provide food and clothing all year round for any individuals who need it in the area. In Clay County, the Modern Culture Club/Inter-Se Club hosted their annual soup luncheon mid-November to raise money for the local DHR so they could purchase Christmas gifts for local children. This year in Calhoun County, Brad Young with Insurance Planning of Anniston staged his disaster relief vehicle at K.L. Brown Funeral Home in Jacksonville. He provided meals and a place for folks to charge their cell phones after the tornado and storms devastated the area in April. Also in Calhoun County, Piedmont High School students held their annual Seniors Helping Seniors program in March. This program provides services of high school seniors in assisting local senior citizens with errands or chores relating to Spring cleaning. In Randolph County, Handley High School band director Matthew Goodman jogged over 400 miles from Roanoke to New Orleans to raise money. The money raised will help cover the costs so all of his band students would have the opportunity to perform in the 2019 Allstate Sugar Bowl Marching Band Program. In Macon County, the Tri City Church/Macon County Food Bank- will supply food boxes, turkeys, clothing and toys for families in need throughout Macon County. In Cleburne County, the community came together and raised money to help the Willingham family pay for their child’s cancer treatments. In Cherokee County, a program called Jobs for Alabama’s Graduates (JAG) supports at-risk students and helps them graduate from high school. In Smiths Station in Lee County, “Love Touch Assisted Living” Veterans Home served a Thanksgiving meal to local Veterans and will be providing each of them with new gloves, hats and coats for Christmas. It always warms my heart to learn about these acts of kindness. Let’s keep that spirit up throughout the year instead of just during the holidays. As always, I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and you can also subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
11.15.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers reminds any graduating high school seniors for 2019 interested in receiving a Congressional nomination to attend one of the U.S. Service Academies to complete an application, which is available at http://mikerogers.house.gov/constituent-services/academy-nominations, and mail it to one of his district offices soon. To be considered for a nomination for appointment to any of the service academies, including the U.S. Military Academy, the Naval Academy, the Air Force Academy and the Merchant Marines Academy, seniors must complete Rogers’ application material and mail the completed packets to one of Rogers’ district offices. The applications can be sent to: Congressman Mike Rogers Congressman Mike Rogers Attn: Service Academy Application Attn: Service Academy Application 1129 Noble Street, Suite 104 701 Avenue A, Suite 300 Anniston, AL 36201 Opelika, AL 36801 The deadline for receipt of these applications is December 15, 2018. Please visit www.mikerogers.house.gov/constituent-services/academy-nominations with any questions, or call Rogers’ Washington, D.C. office at 202.225.3261. -###-
11.15.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers announced today that the deadline for applying for summer internships in his offices will be February 15, 2019. The internship program is designed to offer select college students a hands-on opportunity to learn about the legislative process, as well as the day-to-day operations of a Congressional office. To be considered for an internship, students must submit a current resume, cover letter and short writing sample to the Congressman’s intern coordinator. Please visit https://mikerogers.house.gov/constituent-services/internships for more information, or call Rogers’ Washington, D.C. office at 202.225.3261. -###-
09.28.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement congratulating Jacksonville State University (JSU) today for receiving an $18,117,223.83 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). “I am so proud to see how resilient the University and community have been. My wife and I are JSU alumni and my youngest son is a student there currently. JSU is a special place to us and we were heartbroken after the tornadoes devasted the area. This funding will help JSU rebuild and continue its tradition of excellence. I am thrilled to see this funding coming to JSU and pleased to see that the federal government saw the critical need to invest in the University.” According to FEMA, which administers the grant, the funding is authorized by Section 406 of the Robert T. Stafford Act. FEMA obligates funding for this project directly to the State. It is the State's responsibility to ensure that the eligible sub-recipient receive this award. Don Killingsworth, Chief Government Relations Officer for JSU, said, “We appreciate the efforts of Senator Shelby, Congressman Rogers and FEMA to get us where we are today in our recovery efforts. This grant allows us to continue our rebuilding of the JSU campus.” Rogers serves as a senior member on the House Homeland Security Committee in Congress. -###-
09.27.2018	Recently, I led a group of local leaders in Calhoun County, including Alabama Senate President pro tempore, Del Marsh, to visit and tour the Center for Domestic Preparedness (CDP) in Anniston. While the CDP has a huge local economic impact, it is so much more. Since 1998, the CDP has trained over a million first responders. Folks come from all over the world to train at this world-class facility. The CDP is funded by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). I have served on the House Committee on Homeland Security since it was formed in 2005. I have long supported the CDP and its mission, and now am working to help spread awareness of their work both locally and globally. It’s no secret that we live in a dangerous world, and the CDP provides live agent and biochemical training to first responders. The facility also has mock scenes created on-site – from a subway to an earthquake to a hospital –so that different variations of training on different levels can be experienced. It’s one of a kind and it is right here in our backyard. Another great national security asset we have right here in our backyard is our canine programs. I was thrilled this week to see the text of my canine legislation pass the House of Representatives. H.R. 4577, the Domestic Explosive Detection Canine Capacity Building Act, was included in the FAA reauthorization bill. My bill would increase the number of working dogs bred and trained in America versus purchasing the majority of our working dogs from Europe. I support American dogs protecting Americans and I support the private sector being a full partner in our security. The canines used in the transportation sector – from train stations to airports – are not only the most cost-effective, but also the most efficient option to detect explosives. They are more proficient than any machine on the market. I have always been and will continue to be an advocate for the increased use of canines to protect our homeland. I was also happy to have my language updating the Screening Partnership Program (SPP) passed the House as well. It will allow airports more flexibility when dealing with TSA and even allow them to choose private screeners with new technology and innovations to better enhance security of passengers.
09.27.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after his legislation text, H.R. 4577, the Domestic Explosive Detection Canine Capacity Building Act, was included in the FAA Reauthorization bill which passed the House of Representatives this week. “I was thrilled to see my legislation included. Working canines continue to be an essential and integral part of our national security system. These canines are not only more cost-effective, but more proficient at detecting explosives than any machine on the market today. “I have continually advocated and fought for the increased use of canines throughout the transportation sector. As we continue to see attacks on soft targets around the world, many of these canine teams are worked to their capacity. The text of this legislation ensures the Department of Homeland Security will work with American breeders and the private sector to increase the volume of these animals that are available.” Another addition to the FAA reauthorization was Rogers’ language on updating the Screening Partnership Program (SPP). These additions would require the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to act expeditiously when airports wish to use private screeners over TSA and allows that airport to select their own replacement from a list of approved contractors rather than have TSA choose their own replacement. The benefit of this is that private screeners are then able to use new technology and innovations that meet or exceed TSA’s current capabilities. Rogers serves as a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee and a member of the House Armed Service Committee and House Agriculture Committee. -###-
09.21.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers led a group of local leaders to tour the Center for Domestic Preparedness (CDP) in Anniston today to help elevate awareness of the important work and training done at the facility. The CDP first opened in 1998 and has since trained over a million first responders. The CDP is unique in its mission because it’s the only facility of its kind in the United States. It provides a hands-on training with toxic agents and biological chemicals and is funded through the Department of Homeland Security. “As a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee and with the CDP in my hometown, I am committed to continue raising awareness of the incredible training available and supporting the CDP any way I can in Congress. We live in a dangerous world and the training they provide can help our first responders be prepared for the worst disasters and terrorist attacks. “Today I was proud to lead a group of local leaders on this visit to the CDP to not only showcase what a world-class facility it is, but ensure our local leadership does all we can to support them,” Rogers said. Local leaders who attended included Jacksonville Mayor Johnny Smith, Calhoun County Commissioner Lee Patterson, Senator Del Marsh, Hobson City Clerk Pauline Cunningham and Executive Director of Alabama Military Stability Committee Robert LaBranch. Rogers serves as a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee and a member of the House Armed Service Committee and House Agriculture Committee. -###-
09.14.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks in advance of the 231st anniversary of the adoption of the United States Constitution on Monday. “September 17th marks the 231st anniversary of the United States Constitution. This important document is one that we hold so dear as Americans. Written by our Founding Fathers, this blueprint for our country should be celebrated. “As a member of the U.S. Congress, it is my duty to uphold and defend our Constitution and I will always fight to defend it and continue to uphold what’s written in it.” -###-
09.13.2018	Every August, Congress takes a District Work Period so members have extra time to spend across their congressional district. Although I live in Weaver full-time and am home when I am not in Washington for votes, it is always wonderful to have some uninterrupted time in East Alabama. During my time in August, I got to visit with a lot of folks at my six different “Congress on Your Corner” town hall events. I was able to talk directly to folks about issues going on in local communities from Woodland to Ashland. I also visited and toured several companies and small businesses. One thing I heard on repeat was how the recent tax reform legislation was helping these businesses thrive and putting more money back in the pockets of their hardworking employees. I met with my Third Congressional District Veterans Advisory Committee to stay on top of the issues that Veterans in our area are facing so that I can take those concerns straight to Washington. I had several meetings with East Alabama’s farmers. Agriculture is such an important driver of our State’s economy. As the only member of the House Agriculture Committee from the State of Alabama, it is crucial that I know exactly what the needs are of our farmers and producers. As a conferee on the 2018 Farm Bill, I want to make sure our state’s agriculture sector has a direct line to me so I can fight for them as we finalize this critical piece of legislation. I toured career technical centers and was able to tell them about the exciting Carl Perkins legislation that passed the House with my strong support. It’s the most monumental legislation we’ve passed for our career tech students. I also got to sit down with local elected officials and leaders from across East Alabama to ensure I know what’s going on in their towns so I can continue to be an advocate for their needs in Congress. It was a busy time with lots of travel, but I am pleased with all we accomplished and will head back to Washington with an updated “to do” list for the Third District. As we get back to work, I am excited to continue pushing President Trump’s America First agenda for our great nation. I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and you can also subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
09.10.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today in advance of the 17th anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks and the sixth anniversary of the deadly attack on Americans in Benghazi, Libya. “The September 11th attacks in 2001, still invoke feelings of sadness, loss and tragedy. Folks across East Alabama and our entire country will never forget those innocent American lives we lost that day and the families they left behind. We also hold in our hearts those Americans who died in the Benghazi attacks and their families. “May God continue to bless the United States of America.” -###-
09.05.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers attended the Farm Bill Conference Meeting today with his House and Senate colleagues. Rogers’ opening statement is below. Rogers is a senior member of the House Agriculture Committee and the only member from the State of Alabama. -###- Opening Statement: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased to once again represent Alabama here on the Conference Committee. I am honored to be working with each of you to craft long-term legislation to give our nation's producers the certainty they want, and frankly, deserve. In 2013’s Conference meeting, I stated that my home state is home to over 48,000 farms. In today’s meeting, I’m here to tell you we have about 44,000. Agriculture is still a massive and important industry for Alabama’s economy, but as you can see, it’s a hard business. Alabama’s farmers and producers deserve a strong, consistent, and on-time Farm Bill. Ag is like football – you have to know the rules of the game before you play, and the Farm Bill gives farmers those rules. It’s also like football in that the state of Alabama is pretty good at it. In Alabama’s Third District, we care about protecting sensitive farmland while still maintaining farmers’ access to working lands. We care about citizens’ access to well-rounded nutrition. We care about America’s rural electric co-ops. We care about protecting family farms by ensuring all family members can work on them. And we care about strong research funding for our two Land Grant Universities, Tuskegee University and Auburn University. Like most of America, my constituents strongly support enforcement of work requirements for SNAP users. What better time to build up an American workforce with increased job force training than when America’s economy is booming? I encourage my colleagues to work in a timely manner to protect America’s food and fiber. An on-time Farm Bill one of the most important things we can do for the folks back home. With that, I yield back my time. Thank You.
07.26.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers reminded folks today that he is holding weekly events when Congress is in session that are open to any constituents visiting Washington, D.C. “Mornings with Mike” events take place in Rogers’ Washington office in the Rayburn House Office Building. The meetings offer East Alabamians a unique chance to meet with Congressman Rogers while enjoying coffee and donuts in his office. “With autumn upon us and a break from the sweltering summer heat, DC can be a very busy and crowded place. I want to remind anyone visiting the area to stop by for a visit. “I have always had my offices open to everyone across the Third Congressional District, but these weekly events give folks the chance to come in and share their concerns and visit with my staff and me. I hope people will take advantage of them when in our nation’s capital,” Rogers said. The event is hosted each session week on Wednesday morning at 9:30 a.m. EDT in 2184 Rayburn. Anyone interested in attending should sign up on Mike’s website to ensure enough coffee and donuts are ordered each week. The dates for the September meetings are: 5th, 12th and 26th. Please visit https://mikerogers.house.gov/mornings-with-mike for more information, or call Rogers’ Washington, D.C. office at 202.225.3261. -###-
07.18.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers announced today he was selected to serve as a Conferee for the 2018 Farm Bill. “In the great State of Alabama, the agriculture industry drives our economy bringing in over $1 billion annually. As the only member of the Agriculture Committee from our state, I am proud to represent the interests of Alabama’s agriculture industry on the Farm Bill Conference Committee this year. I look forward to negotiating legislation that will help set guidelines and bring certainty to our farmers,” Rogers said. “Today, we move one step closer to delivering a strong, new farm bill to the president’s desk on time as he has called on Congress to do. America's farmers and ranchers and rural America are struggling right now and they deserve the certainty of a strong farm bill to see them through to better times. The House has pulled together a solid team of conferees – including Rep. Rogers. I’m looking forward to working with Mike, who has been a strong voice for agriculture through this process, and the rest of our House and Senate colleagues to reach a final product that helps millions of low-income Americans climb the economic ladder, while standing by our nation’s hard-working farm and ranch families,” said House Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway (TX-11). Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
07.18.2018	The Fake News and their liberal allies in the Democratic Party have been on a recent tirade to abolish the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency that most folks know as ICE. They call the men and women who work for ICE all sorts of vile names and accuse them of atrocities ... just more Fake News. Democrats in Congress have even introduced legislation to abolish ICE. Such an action would fit perfectly with their advocacy of open borders and sanctuary cities. I believe a nation that can’t control its borders will lose its sovereignty. That’s why I strongly support President Trump’s border wall. I also contend that a nation should and must enforce its own immigration laws in order to keep the nation secure and communities safe. That’s why I also strongly support ICE. Why do we need ICE? Most folks across our state watched the news recently in utter horror when they learned of the beheading of a 13-year-old Huntsville girl named Mariah Lopez and the brutal murder of her grandmother. This horrendous crime not only happened in our backyard, but it was carried out by two lawless thugs – one an illegal immigrant - involved with the violent Mexican Sinaloa drug cartel. Brave ICE agents work hard every day and put their lives on the line to keep us safe. We should honor their service. They are law enforcement officers just like our county sheriff and city police. They deserve respect and gratitude. Here are a few recent actions by ICE that you won’t hear from the Fake News. ICE is currently searching for a violent MS-13 gang member accused of running a prostitution ring on the East Coast. ICE recently arrested 37 criminal illegal aliens in New Jersey of which 16 were previously arrested and released by Middlesex County – a self-declared sanctuary county. Since 2003, ICE has arrested over 16,000 people for child exploitation through Operation Predator. I am proud of the brave men and women of ICE and the work they do. I will continue to support ICE in Congress. I also urge Congress to make President Trump’s border wall a priority. Americans are in danger if we don’t make it happen soon. What happened in Huntsville could happen anywhere. Our great state and country deserve better. I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and you can also subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
07.10.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after President Trump’s announcement of his pick for the U.S. Supreme Court Brett Kavanaugh. “I think Judge Kavanaugh is an excellent choice to replace Justice Kennedy. His education and qualifications for the position speak for themselves. I believe he will uphold our Constitution and I strongly urge my colleagues in the Senate to take swift action and confirm our nominee.” -###-
06.28.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed H. Res. 970. “I was pleased this legislation passed the House today with my strong support. This has been a witch hunt from the very beginning. I hope the DOJ will cooperate and this so-called investigation will be shut down as soon as possible. With so much going on throughout our country, it’s time we focused on the real issues at hand rather than a rigged and limitless inquisition.” The resolution, which passed the House 226 to 183, puts the House of Representatives on the record in ordering the Department of Justice (DOJ) to release all documents they have withheld dealing with the Robert Mueller investigation. -###-
06.28.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers reminded folks today that he is holding weekly events when Congress is in session that are open to any constituents visiting Washington, D.C. “Mornings with Mike” events take place in Rogers’ Washington office in the Rayburn House Office Building. The meetings offer East Alabamians a unique chance to meet with Congressman Rogers while enjoying coffee and donuts in his office. “With summer upon us, DC can be a very busy and crowded place. I want to remind anyone visiting the area to stop by for a visit. “I have always had my offices open to everyone across the Third Congressional District, but these weekly events give folks the chance to come in and share their concerns and visit with my staff and me. I hope people will take advantage of them when in our nation’s capital,” Rogers said. The event is hosted each session week on Wednesday morning at 9:30 a.m. EDT in 2184 Rayburn. Anyone interested in attending should sign up on Mike’s website to ensure enough coffee and donuts are ordered each week. The dates for the July meetings are: 11th, 18th and 25th. Please visit https://mikerogers.house.gov/mornings-with-mike for more information, or call Rogers’ Washington, D.C. office at 202.225.3261. -###-
06.26.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the U.S. Supreme Court upheld President Trump’s travel ban 5-4 in Trump v. Hawaii. “I was thrilled today to see the Supreme Court uphold President Trump’s travel ban. It is a huge win for the safety of the American people and our national security. “President Trump is exactly right that we must fully vet people from these countries before even considering to allow them into the United States. Keeping Americans safe is one of the highest duties of the government and this was absolutely the right decision.” The countries included in the travel ban are: Libya, Syria, North Korea, Iran, Somalia, Yemen and Venezuela. -###-
06.22.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today as the debate over how to handle the illegal immigration crisis continues to grow. “This is a national security issue and the only way to fix the immigration crisis is by building the border wall and then moving toward a merit-based immigration policy as President Trump has strongly advocated. I stand with President Trump on this issue. “To me, it’s ironic that instead of helping be a part of the solution, the Democrats in Congress continue to stand idly by and pitch fits for solely political purposes. They’re calling for open borders and failing America by not doing the job for which they were elected. When it comes to the immigration crisis, former President Obama is responsible for this great American deceit. A country with open borders is a dangerous one. It leads to sanctuary cities, an immediate increase in crime and ultimately the loss of our national sovereignty,” Rogers said. Rogers is a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee. -###-
06.22.2018	Folks across East Alabama may have recently seen the Department of Justice (DOJ) Inspector General (IG) Report findings were released. The IG report details the mishandling of the FBI investigation involving Hillary Clinton and her private email server. Anyone that denies that the FBI’s Clinton investigation was rigged in her favor is delusional. The political bias clearly shown during the investigation and the double standard of justice was rampant and deliberate. This is the same crooked group at the FBI that started the investigation of President Trump that led to the appointment of Special Counsel Robert Mueller. So here is what we know: Mr. Comey was FBI Director at the time the investigation was started. The IG found his actions at the FBI were insubordinate and he may currently by under investigation for leaking classified material. Deputy Director Andrew McCabe was fired and is under investigation for lying to investigators. Special Agent Peter Strzok has clearly demonstrated his hate and contempt for President Trump through his texts. He most recently was escorted out of the FBI headquarters. Congressional investigators now believe FBI documents may have been altered to convict Michael Flynn after the two FBI agents that interviewed him found him to be truthful. We are also now finding out about FBI spies being planted inside the Trump campaign along with FBI abuse of the FISA warrants. Enough is enough. If all of this pans out, which I believe it will, there was no original basis for appointing Robert Mueller. As I discussed during my Fox Business interview this week, the Mueller witch hunt needs to be shut down immediately. We cannot continue to let it go on and be a distraction for the American people and Trump Administration. Our economy is booming, unemployment rates are low and the American Dream is back – but with this nonsense continuing on the side – it is hard to focus on our goals. The American people deserve better.
06.21.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2, better known as the Farm Bill of 2018. “I was pleased today to see the Farm Bill finally pass the House of Representatives. As the only member of the House Agriculture Committee from the State of Alabama, I know firsthand the Agriculture industry makes up over 40 percent of our state’s economy and that our farmers and producers count on this legislation every five years. “This year, the legislation will help people pull themselves out of the cycle of poverty because it makes meaningful reforms to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). It helps to incentivize all able-bodied individuals to work part-time or receive free training they need to find a job. Keep in mind, this does not apply to children, the elderly, expectant mothers, disabled individuals or caretakers of children. “This year, the Farm Bill also provides support for Land Grant universities like Auburn and Tuskegee. It also helps our area because it will bring quality broadband service to rural areas - like much of East Alabama – where folks need the service the most. The Farm Bill will be good for our area and I was glad to see it pass the House with my full support today,” Rogers said. Rogers is a senior member of the House Agriculture Committee. -###-
06.18.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after President Donald Trump directed the Air Force to begin creation of a separate Space Force today at the White House during the National Space Council meeting. “I am thrilled to see President Trump’s continued support of this important mission. We have worked for over two years together on the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) Strategic Forces subcommittee on this issue. There is an absolute need for a Space Force as a separate organization in the Department of Defense. As President Trump said today, ‘When it comes to defending America, it is not enough to merely have an American presence in space. We must have American dominance in space.’ I completely agree with President Trump.” President Trump and Rogers talked about the importance of the issue via phone this spring. Rogers is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee and serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee. -###- *Space Corps is the term the new branch has been called on the HASC level and Space Force is the term President Trump has used for the branch when he refers to it.
06.06.2018	As many of you may have seen recently, Fake News and liberal groups have blamed President Trump with false allegations saying his Administration is to blame for “losing” illegal immigrant children by separating them from their families. What these groups fail to disclose is that these phonies are using photos of illegal immigrant children from 2014 when President Obama was in office and making the liberal narrative of losing children simply not true. I would like to remind all the anti-Trump liberals that a few years back, the Obama Administration was trying to use places like Maxwell Air Force Base in Montgomery and the Center for Domestic Preparedness (CDP) in Anniston to house these children as they came into the country. I was vehemently opposed to this and wrote a letter in 2014 to then-HHS Secretary Burwell and then-DHS Secretary Johnson stating that placing these detainee children over 900 miles from the border didn’t make sense. Thankfully, children were not sent to Alabama. We are all human and as a father of three, no one wants children to be separated from their parents. It is heart wrenching at times to watch these desperate families. However, building the border wall and blocking illegal immigration is the only surefire way to prevent these types of decisions from having to be made. As a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee, the wall remains a priority for me. I will continue to support President Trump in this effort and help him in keeping his promise to the American people. Many problems like drug trafficking and criminals illegally entering our country would be seriously curtailed by building the border wall. One common sense solution to make the wall a reality is my legislation, H.R. 1813, the Border Wall Funding Act of 2017. This bill would impose a two percent fee on all remittances to South and Central America. The fees collected would go to the Treasury to be used for border security construction, including to build the wall. Illegal immigrants use remittances every day to move money from the United States to their home countries. This legislation would make Mexico pay for the wall and give the US a dedicated money source to help fund the wall. I hope Congress will make this a priority soon. I would like to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and you can also subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
06.04.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement after the United States Supreme Court ruled in the Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission. The Supreme Court ruled 7-2 in favor of the Colorado baker who refused to bake a wedding cake for a same-sex couple citing religious beliefs. “I was pleased to see the Supreme Court rule in favor of the baker today. I feel it is a win for Americans everywhere as our Christian-based values were finally upheld today. No one should be forced to work in a situation that compromises their religious belief system. “After years of going down a path that seemed to forget our core values, today marks a turn in the tide as religious liberties prevailed.” -###-
05.24.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement in honor of our fallen service men and women ahead of Memorial Day, May 28, 2018. “Each Memorial Day we take a special time out to remember and honor those brave men and women who have selflessly served our country and those who paid the ultimate sacrifice. “Our prayers are with all the families who have lost their loved ones as we remember them today and honor their sacrifice for our freedoms every day. God Bless the USA.” -###-
05.24.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers reminded folks today that he is holding weekly events when Congress is in session that are open to any constituents visiting Washington, D.C. “Mornings with Mike” events take place in Rogers’ Washington office in the Rayburn House Office Building. The meetings offer East Alabamians a unique chance to meet with Congressman Rogers while enjoying coffee and donuts in his office. “With summer upon us, DC can be a very busy and crowded place. I want to remind anyone visiting the area to stop by for a visit. “I have always had my offices open to everyone across the Third Congressional District, but these weekly events give folks the chance to come in and share their concerns and visit with my staff and me. I hope people will take advantage of them when in our nation’s capital,” Rogers said. The event is hosted each session week on Wednesday morning at 9:30 a.m. EDT in 2184 Rayburn. Anyone interested in attending should sign up on Mike’s website to ensure enough coffee and donuts are ordered each week. The dates for the June meetings are: 6th, 13th, 20th and 27th. Please visit https://mikerogers.house.gov/mornings-with-mike for more information, or call Rogers’ Washington, D.C. office at 202.225.3261. -###-
05.23.2018	Robert Mueller is running a witch hunt, not an investigation, and it needs to be shut down now. As folks across East Alabama have seen on the news, after a year and $25 million of taxpayer money, the only real collusion uncovered was between the Clinton campaign and a small corrupt group in the FBI. The primary goals of this whole probe would appear to be the obstruction of President Trump’s ability to lead our nation and to nullify a lawful American election. At this point in time, we stand exactly where we did a year ago. We are no closer to establishing a connection between the Trump campaign and Russia than we were in 2016 because one doesn’t exist. Collusion is a cute buzz-word that sells papers and air-time for Fake News media, but the reality is that this investigation shines brightly as nothing more than a well-orchestrated political witch hunt. In reality, if there was a true need to seek justice, why isn’t there a Special Counsel to investigate the plot to frame President Trump and the FBI and DOJ’s abuse of the FISA court? That is why I have joined a number of my colleagues on a resolution calling for the appointment of a second Special Counsel to truly seek justice. The outrageous Mueller investigation is not only a politically motivated ruse against President Trump but has a greater impact of negatively affecting our nation and every American family. The Fake News and the Washington swamp are obsessed with obstructing President Trump’s ability to lead at every turn and Mueller is perpetuating that obstruction. Why are they doing this? Just look at what has been accomplished in less than 18 months. We’ve passed the most comprehensive tax reform law in three decades. We’ve cut job-stifling regulations. The economy is booming. Unemployment is at historic lows. We are on the brink of historic talks with North Korea, destroying ISIS, standing up for our courageous ally Israel and much more. All of these great things happened because of President Trump’s leadership. If the President could accomplish all this in the face of overwhelmingly biased sentiments, imagine what we could accomplish outside the burden of this witch hunt. All this investigation has done is hurt Americans. It’s time it stops so the focus can be shifted back to making American great again. I would like to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and you can also subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
05.17.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement about H.R. 2, best known as the Farm Bill, and the truth about how it will affect folks across East Alabama. "The truth is that the agriculture industry makes up over 40 percent of the economy in the State of Alabama. Every five years, Congress has to renew the Farm Bill and the policies that are critical to setting the guidelines for our farmers and producers. "This year, the Farm Bill will reform the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) by incentivizing able-bodied individuals to get work or free training to help pull themselves out of poverty. This does not apply to children, the elderly, expectant mothers, disabled or caretakers of children. "The Farm Bill also provides meaningful support this year for Land Grant universities like Auburn and Tuskegee. It also helps bring quality broadband service to rural areas - like much of East Alabama - by incentivizing providers to offer the technology," Rogers said. The Farm Bill is on the House Floor this week. “I was also pleased my amendment was included, the SNAP Vitamin and Mineral Improvement Act,” Rogers added. It would allow low-income Americans to purchase a daily multivitamin-mineral supplement with their SNAP benefits to make sure they are getting their daily nutrients and add choices to SNAP while not changing the costs. Rogers is a senior member of the House Agriculture Committee and the only member from the State of Alabama. -###- HR 2: What the Farm Bill DOES and What the Farm Bill DOESN’T DO Source: https://agriculture.house.gov/farmbill/ • The Farm Bill Nutrition Title does not affect X number of people in Alabama. o We don’t know how many people the Farm Bill Nutrition title affects in Alabama because states aren’t required to keep data! Any number that is used to explain how many people are on the SNAP program now is self-reported through the Census and other programs, meaning it’s not exactly accurate, though some may lead you to believe as such. The Farm Bill will require that states report how long folks are on government assistance so we can better know how to help them out of poverty. • The Farm Bill does not kick 1,000,000 SNAP recipients off the program. o No one is kicked off SNAP due to mandatory work requirements. Anyone who leaves the program does so because 1) they obtain employment with sufficient income to no longer be eligible, or 2) they choose not to work or participate in a work or training program for at least 20 hours per week. • The Farm Bill does not enforce work requirements on the disabled, the elderly, expectant mothers, caretakers of children or children. o The Farm Bill work requirements are common sense. Any able-bodied adult on government assistance should be working at least 20 hours per week. SNAP is a tool to bring folks out of poverty, and these requirements coupled with training programs will do just that. • The Farm bill does offer solutions to bring folks out of poverty. o Our current SNAP program has work requirements that aren’t in any way enforced. SNAP as it’s currently written in no way offers solutions to folks trying to get themselves back on their feet. With increased funding for workforce training and development, this Farm Bill will actually offer a way out of poverty. • The Farm Bill does strengthen incentives for providers to offer quality broadband service to all rural America. o Rural Broadband is necessary to attract business to rural Alabama. This bill will cut red tape for companies who wish to expand their broadband services to our more rural areas. • The Farm Bill does strengthen Alabama’s Land Grant universities, such as Auburn and Tuskegee. o With a new grant program established at 1890 land grant universities, and with critical research program funding increased, this bill will strengthen Alabama’s amazing land grant universities and the work they do.
05.14.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today recognizing National Police Week this week. This year, May 13th – 19th is the designated week of recognition. “Every single day, brave men and women protect us and keep us safe across East Alabama and the country. These law enforcement officers put their lives at risk daily to help ensure the safety and security of our communities,” Rogers said. Since Rogers began his service in Congress in 2003, according to the Officer Down Memorial Page (ODMP), East Alabama has lost the follow law enforcement officers: Officer Keith Edwin Houts, Lieutenant Dexter Holcomb, Detective Corporal Kenneth Armstrong, Police Officer Kenneth “Greg” Surles, Correctional Officer Elizabeth Franklin, Conservation Officer Nathan Benjamin Mims, Correctional Officer Rodney Kelley, Trooper Ervin Michael Hawk Johnston, II, Police Officer Joshuah Patrick Broadway, Inspector David Howell Jennings, Conservation Officer James Lansford “Lance” Horner, Jr., Deputy Sheriff James W. Anderson, Police Officer Justin David Sollohub, Sergeant Daniel Verle Davis, Investigator Jeffrey Hugh Bryant, Police Officer David Lee Colley, Correctional Officer Kenneth Levella Bettis and Lieutenant Richard Glenn Woods. “We will never forget those who have paid the ultimate sacrifice and have served their local communities. Today and every day, we salute our local law enforcement,” Rogers added. -###-
05.10.2018	This week the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) marked up the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019 (FY19). Although this bill focuses on our country’s Department of Defense, there are many pieces of the legislation that will have a huge impact back home in East Alabama. The NDAA starts by strengthening our military after years of being weakened under the Obama Administration. It gives a much-deserved 2.6 percent raise for our troops. This is the biggest pay increase in almost a decade. The Stryker A1 combat vehicle – which is overhauled and maintained at Anniston Army Depot (ANAD) – will get an increase authorizing a total of $360 million. I appreciate the committee recognizing the importance of this diverse combat vehicle after many of my colleagues from the House sent a letter to U.S. Army Secretary Esper to bring his attention to it. For the ANAD, the NDAA provides another increase in funding - $21.8 billion for equipment maintenance and $3.7 billion for spare parts. This will help ensure our troops have the best equipment we can provide them for training. The NDAA also helps the ANAD by tweaking the carry over formula to allow leaders at the Depot the flexibility needed to better manage their funding from year to year and not be penalized by issues out of their control. Big picture, the NDAA also includes some movement on an important initiative I have been working on for a couple years. It includes steps to help ensure we are on the right path when it comes to National Security Space. I was pleased to see President Trump recently reaffirmed his support for Space Force and I am hoping it will continue to gain traction. The NDAA still has a way to go in the legislative process, but I am optimistic it will be completed soon and help provide for our nation’s security and our brave men and women in uniform. I would like to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and you can also subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
05.01.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after President Donald Trump for a second time publicly called for a Space Force today at the White House during his speech to the West Point Football Team. “I am thrilled that the Space Corps idea is gaining traction at the White House. Congressman Jim Cooper (D-TN) and I have worked tirelessly on the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) Strategic Forces subcommittee level on the need for a Space Corps outside of the Air Force for over two years now. Russia and China are surpassing us in Space capabilities and we need to dedicate a separate force solely with a Space mission. The future of war will be fought in Space, and we must stay diligent and ahead of other countries for our own national security.” In April, Rogers and President Trump spoke by phone about the need for Space Corps in the near future. “I was honored to talk to President Trump about this critical initiative and appreciate his support on an issue that is so important to me and the safety and security of the United States,” Rogers added. Rogers is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee and serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee. -###- *Space Corps is the term the new branch has been called on the HASC level and Space Force is the term President Trump has used for the branch when he refers to it.
05.01.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers reminded folks today that he is holding weekly events when Congress is in session that are open to any constituents visiting Washington, D.C. “Mornings with Mike” events take place in Rogers’ Washington office in the Rayburn House Office Building. The meetings offer East Alabamians a unique chance to meet with Congressman Rogers while enjoying coffee and donuts in his office. “With summer right around the corner, DC can be a very busy and crowded place. I want to remind anyone visiting the area to stop by for a visit. “I have always had my offices open to everyone across the Third Congressional District, but these weekly events give folks the chance to come in and share their concerns and visit with my staff and me. I hope people will take advantage of them when in our nation’s capital,” Rogers said. The event is hosted each session week on Wednesday morning at 9:30 a.m. EDT in 2184 Rayburn. Anyone interested in attending should sign up on Mike’s website to ensure enough coffee and donuts are ordered each week. The dates for the May meetings are: 16th and 23rd. Please visit https://mikerogers.house.gov/mornings-with-mike for more information, or call Rogers’ Washington, D.C. office at 202.225.3261. -###-
04.27.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the announcement of a major disaster declaration for Calhoun, Cullman, Etowah and St. Clair Counties. “I want to thank the President for authorizing a federal disaster declaration for the State of Alabama. The severe storms and tornados that ripped through Eastern Alabama had a catastrophic impact on homes and businesses in the community. The devastation sadly fell well outside the scope of what local and state emergency management agencies were able to handle. With assistance from FEMA and the federal government, East Alabamians can now start to rebuild their homes, businesses and their lives.” -###- Background: On March 19, 2018, a series of severe storms and tornadoes touched down in East Alabama causing widespread damage across numerous counties. While miraculously there was no loss of life as a direct result of the storm, communities were devastated by millions of dollars in structural damages. After preliminary assessments and consultation with state emergency managers, Governor Kay Ivey requested a major disaster declaration be ordered by President Donald Trump. On April 26, 2018, the President announced his declaration of a federal disaster in the area. As a result, federal grants are now available to qualifying individuals and businesses. Information on available grants and applications can be found at www.DisasterAssistance.gov or may call the registration phone number at 1-800-621-3362.
04.25.2018	Agriculture is such an important industry to our great State and contributes $70.4 billion to Alabama’s economy. Congress plays an important role in supporting the farm economy through the Farm Bill. H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018 which just passed the House Agriculture Committee, should be on the House Floor for a vote soon. As the only member of the House Agriculture Committee from the great state of Alabama, I work hard to make sure I represent the needs of our farmers and agriculture industry in the Committee and especially every five years when the Farm Bill rolls around. This year, there were many important pieces of the Farm Bill that could positively impact Alabama. First, it supports American farmers and producers by maintaining and strengthening our key farm commodity programs. Next, for our more rural parts of the country, like many parts of the Third Congressional District, it authorizes substantial annual appropriations for rural broadband and requires USDA to establish forward-looking broadband standards. It also strengthens the suite of rural development initiatives to promote jobs and economic activity in these rural areas where employment is down because of the sharp downturn in the farm economy. These initiatives are important because they will help provide critical infrastructure where it is needed most and help folks find good-paying jobs in areas work has been scarce. For our land grant schools, like Auburn and Tuskegee, the Farm Bill helps keep agriculture at the forefront of innovation and productivity through cutting-edge research and support of land grant schools. It also establishes a scholarship program at 1890 Land Grant Institutions, like Tuskegee, designed to assist students interested in agriculture. Finally, it enforces and strengthens current work requirements for Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) recipients, while protecting benefits for the elderly, children and the disabled. The bill increases funding for Employment and Training from $90 million to $1 billion over three years. It’s common sense and helps SNAP become a stepping stone to success, rather than a long-term government hand out. I’m proud of the work we were able to accomplish this year in committee, and I appreciate Chairman Mike Conaway (R-TX) and his leadership on the bill. I look forward to House passage of this critical legislation very soon. I would like to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and you can also subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
04.23.2018	Artistic high school students from across the Third District were honored Saturday, April 21st in Sylacauga, as Congressman Mike Rogers announced the winners of the 2018 Third District Congressional Art Competition. Ragan Floyd, a junior at Smiths Station High School, took First Place for her artwork titled “Russ” that was created from torn paper. Floyd came in first place this year out of over 46 submissions. Floyd’s artwork will be displayed for one year in the walkway leading to the U.S. Capitol. All artwork submitted for the contest was on view at the Comer Museum in Sylacauga. - ### -
04.18.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the House Agriculture Committee Markup of H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018. “The Farm Bill is one of the most important pieces of legislation we pass in Congress. This bill is critical to the nations’ Farmers and Producers, but most importantly, it’s critical for Alabama. As Alabama’s only member on the Agriculture Committee, I am happy this bill passed the Committee and I want to thank Chairman Conaway for his hard work. “It’s a shame Democratic members of the Committee let partisan politics and media attention win over America’s farmers, producers and families. “This is an important first step to having this bill signed into law, but it’s just that- a first step. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House and Senate to send this bill to President Trump’s desk.” Highlights of the Farm Bill for the State of Alabama and the Third Congressional District are below. • Increases funding for SNAP Employment & Training from $90 million to $1 billion over three years and enforces current work requirements for SNAP recipients. • Provides $100 million toward a pilot program to address feral swine. • Maintains a separate payment limitation for the peanut program. • Authorizes substantial annual appropriations for rural broadband and requires USDA to establish forward-looking broadband standards. Also strengthens the suite of rural development initiatives to promote jobs and economic activity in rural America where employment is suffering due to the sharp downturn in the farm economy. • Provides the secretary the authority to prioritize projects that help communities meet the challenges of the opioid crisis. • Maintains several provisions to help beginning farmers and ranchers establish themselves in agriculture. The bill enhances access to crop insurance and establishes a scholarship program at 1890 Land Grant Institutions, like Tuskegee, designed to assist students interested in careers in agriculture. • Keeps American agriculture at the forefront of innovation and productivity through cutting-edge research and support of the nation’s land grant, like Tuskegee and Auburn, and non-land grant colleges of agriculture to provide the safest, most abundant, most affordable food supply in the world. -###-
04.12.2018	As you may have recently seen on the news, President Trump has called for the National Guard to assist Customs and Border Patrol Agents with securing our southern border. The Trump Administration has made securing our porous southwest border with Mexico a top priority, and we cannot wait another minute to stop the influx of illegal immigrants, drugs and weapons that are spewing into our country. A sovereign nation is one that has control of their borders. The reality is: without border security, Americans’ lives are at risk. The list of Americans killed by illegal immigrants has continued to grow and one particular example comes to mind. On July 1st, 2015, Kate Steinle was walking with her father when she was shot and killed by an illegal immigrant who had been deported multiple times, but snuck back in to our country. Last year, Congress passed legislation H.R. 3004, Kate’s Law, to crack down on penalties for any illegal felon who has been deported from the U.S. and returned. But this is not enough. The National Guard and military along the border will help, but America needs the wall built and needs to be built now. President Trump said Mexico would pay for the wall and my legislation, H.R. 1813, would help them do just that. The bill would build a wall with funds that would be collected by imposing a two percent fee on all remittance transactions to Central and South America. It collects this fee regardless of the sender’s immigration status. This legislation is just common-sense and would get the wall built without being a burden to the taxpayer. As a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee, I stand with President Trump and will continue to fight for strengthening our southern border and protecting our nation from lawless, violent criminals who seek to harm Americans. We cannot put the safety of American citizens at risk any longer. I would like to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and you can also subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
04.11.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement after Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) announced today that he will not seek re-election. “Speaker Ryan is a brilliant leader who is dedicated to making our nation greater through conservative principles. Paul is a man of great integrity who places his family and faith first. I am proud to know him and serve with him. “He worked tirelessly to help push the historic tax reform bill through the House of Representatives which will continue to have a positive effect across the country for years to come. “The position of Speaker is not an easy task. I thank Paul for his hard work in Congress, his service to the American people and wish him well as he prepares for the next chapter of his life.” -###-
04.04.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers reminded folks today that he is holding weekly events when Congress is in session that are open to any constituents visiting Washington, D.C. “Mornings with Mike” events take place in Rogers’ Washington office in the Rayburn House Office Building. The meetings offer East Alabamians a unique chance to meet with Congressman Rogers while enjoying coffee and donuts in his office. “With the cherry blossoms and spring break upon us, D.C. is busy this time of the year, and I want to remind anyone visiting the area to stop by for a visit. “I have always had my offices open to everyone across the Third Congressional District, but these weekly events give folks the chance to come in and share their concerns and visit with my staff and me. I hope people will take advantage of them when in our nation’s capital,” Rogers said. The event is hosted each session week on Wednesday morning at 9:30 a.m. EST in 2184 Rayburn. Anyone interested in attending should sign up on Mike’s website to ensure enough coffee and donuts are ordered each week. The dates for the April meetings are: 11th, 18th and 25th. Please visit https://mikerogers.house.gov/mornings-with-mike for more information, or call Rogers’ Washington, D.C. office at 202.225.3261. -###-
03.16.2018	America may be a country of immigrants, but it’s also a country of laws. No one is exempt from those laws regardless of what some local officials in sanctuary cities may think. As you may have seen on the news recently, Attorney General Jeff Sessions recently announced a lawsuit against the State of California for failure to completely cooperate with federal immigration enforcement officers. I stand with AG Sessions’ decision. From the mayors and local politicians disregarding federal immigration law to the illegal immigrants they are prioritizing over American citizens, it’s about time we hold these lawless individuals accountable. The “leaders” in these cities are violating their oath of office and the Constitution. They should be immediately removed from their positions and the illegal immigrants they are protecting should be deported. Period. I agree with President Trump that we need to strengthen our borders. We should build the wall and we should continue to support law enforcement’s crackdown on violent foreign gangs like MS-13. These efforts mean nothing though if illegal immigrants and criminals can continue to seek refuge in some of our country’s largest cities. It boils down to fairness, safety and what it means to be a sovereign nation. A country without borders is hardly a country at all. I’m fed up with seeing the tax dollars from hard-working families across East Alabama go to cities who snub their nose at the very ideals that make America great. Congress should withhold funding from sanctuary cities that refuse to uphold federal law. President Trump has proven his tough stance on illegal immigration is much more than just campaign rhetoric. He has already done so much to curtail our illegal immigration crisis but he can’t do it alone. Elected officials – from the state and local level to Members of Congress – must do their part. And if they refuse, then they aren’t fit for public service. I would like to hear from you. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and you can also subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
03.05.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers reminded folks today that he is holding weekly events when Congress is in session that are open to any constituents visiting Washington, D.C. “Mornings with Mike” events take place in Rogers’ Washington office in the Rayburn House Office Building. The meetings offer East Alabamians a unique chance to meet with Congressman Rogers while enjoying coffee and donuts in his office. “With the cherry blossoms and spring break upon us, D.C. is busy this time of the year, and I want to remind anyone visiting the area to stop by for a visit. “I have always had my offices open to everyone across the Third Congressional District, but these weekly events give folks the chance to come in and share their concerns and visit with my staff and me. I hope people will take advantage of them when in our nation’s capital,” Rogers said. The event is hosted each session week on Wednesday morning at 9:30 a.m. EST in 2184 Rayburn. Anyone interested in attending should sign up on Mike’s website to ensure enough coffee and donuts are ordered each week. The dates for the March meetings are: 7th, 14th and 21st. Please visit https://mikerogers.house.gov/mornings-with-mike for more information, or call Rogers’ Washington, D.C. office at 202.225.3261. -###-
03.02.2018	Across East Alabama, I know our hearts and prayers have been with all of those affected by the recent tragedy at Parkland High School. Any time innocent lives are lost – especially the lives of young people – it shakes us to the core. The Parkland tragedy was the culmination of terrible mistakes and missed opportunities by various authorities. Law enforcement was called regarding the shooter dozens of times with little or no follow up. The FBI failed to pass on tips to be investigated. The shooter even posted images and statements on social media about wanting to be a school shooter. It is crystal clear he was a very mentally disturbed individual that authorities completely missed despite repeated warnings and opportunities. The debate we should be having now is how did local, state and federal authorities fail to follow through on all the warnings? How can we improve mental health care in our nation? How can we make our schools safer? According to State of Florida, a person who is adjudicated mentally defective or involuntarily committed by a judge may be prohibited from purchasing a gun. The Parkland shooter could have had either of these actions taken against him with the laws currently on the books by the state if the authorities had acted on the first warning signs. The same was true with the killer in last year’s church massacre in Texas. He was convicted of domestic abuse and served time in a military jail. One cannot legally buy a gun with such convictions, but the Air Force never reported him to the national data base. Instead of talking facts and looking for honest solutions, gun control advocates choose to attack the Second Amendment rights of law-abiding citizens. A psychotic criminal intent on committing mass murder does not care about the law and will find a weapon – be it a gun, a knife, or even a vehicle to plow over people. We must find ways to identify and help those suffering from mental illnesses. I would like to hear from you. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and you can also subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
03.01.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after Russia’s Vladimir Putin revealed the development of a new nuclear cruise missile. “Putin’s disclosure of their development of a nuclear-armed, nuclear-powered cruise missile is just the latest in a string of new and horrific Russian weapons designed to intimidate and coerce the U.S. and our allies. This only makes it clearer that President Trump’s 2018 Nuclear Posture Review is correct: we must take steps to bolster the U.S. nuclear deterrent to deter adversaries and reassure allies. We cannot stand idly by and do nothing in the face of these barbaric weapons and threats. In Congress we must act to support President Trump’s budget request for nuclear modernization. We can’t be dissuaded by nuclear disarmament advocates who would rather us unilaterally disarm while also dismantling our missile defenses,” Rogers said. -###-
02.14.2018	After over 30 years of working under an outdated tax code, local businesses and folks across East Alabama and the entire country, are feeling the benefits of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. This important legislation passed the House with my strong support and was signed in to law by President Trump this past December. The majority of folks will see an increase in their take home pay because of the lower tax rates and larger standard deduction. The federal tax withholding should also be less than before for most Americans. In addition to those seeing a bigger paycheck, over three and a half million Americans, as of writing, have received a bonus or raise as a direct result of the tax reform bill. Companies in the United States have distributed over $3 billion in bonuses. In the Third Congressional District, Russell Lands in Alexander City, gave $500 to each of its 500 employees after the bill became law. Recently, I visited Russell Lands Chairman Ben Russell and his employees to congratulate them. I also spoke on the House Floor to recognize this exciting news. Folks in Russell County are also benefitting from the legislation. Just over the Georgia line in Columbus, AFLAC, Synovus and Total System Services each gave their employees bonuses because of the bill. Further, Regions Bank in Birmingham, Cogent Building Group in Point Clear and DTI in Mobile have also given bonuses to their employees. These bigger paychecks and bonuses can help families save for their kids’ college tuition, get a new washing machine or make a car payment. The money going back in folks’ pockets represents opportunity. As I said on the House Floor last week, “I don’t think you would ever hear the employees at Russell Lands calling their bonus: ‘crumbs.’” I would love to hear how this historic tax reform is helping you. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and you can also subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
02.12.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today over the glamorizing of the sister of North Korea’s Kim Jong-un by the liberal media elite after her attendance at the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea. “What the liberal media elite like CNN and The New York Times has done is sickening to me. Her brother Kim Jong-un is a murderer and his regime in its brutality forces its people to live a Stone Age existence. He threatens the world with nuclear war, starves the people in his own country and tortured American student Otto Warmbier to the point that he passed away once he was returned to the United States. Kim Yo Jong is not only a part of that cruel family, but is a part of the brutal regime. Nothing should be romanticized about her as she is an enemy,” Rogers said. -###-
02.09.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the Bipartisan Budget Act passed the House of Representatives with his strong support. “Our military has suffered far too long under the Obama Administration due to uncertainty because of funding. Today we finally voted for a long-term budget agreement that fully funds the Pentagon and will give our brave men and women in uniform the certainty they need to protect and defend America. President Trump promised to rebuild our military and the Republican Congress delivered. “The legislation also provides much needed relief for Alabama’s cotton farmers and places them on a much firmer footing for the upcoming farm bill debate” Rogers added. The legislation funds the government while reversing sequester and increasing defense discretionary funding by $80 billion in Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 and $85 billion in FY2019. It also helps reduce maintenance backlog at the Veterans Administration (VA), makes seed cotton eligible for the farm safety net and includes a 10-year extension of the Children’s Health Insurance Plan (CHIP). “I was proud this legislation passed the House with my strong support. Those who put their lives on the line for our freedoms deserve to have the resources needed to fulfill their missions,” Rogers said. “I want to thank Mike Rogers for his leadership in helping shepherd this budget deal to passage and standing up for our military. Mike Rogers is a strong leader on national security and especially the role the state of Alabama plays in it. I appreciate and rely on his deep knowledge of the issues and dedication to our men and women in uniform” House Armed Services Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-TX) said. Rogers is a senior member of the House Agriculture and House Homeland Security Committees and Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee. -###-
02.08.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers attended the 66th National Prayer Breakfast today in Washington, D.C., with guests Pastor and Mrs. C.O. Grinstead of Trinity Baptist Church in Oxford, Alabama. Pastor Grinstead and his wife, Sherry, came to Trinity in 1969. Grinstead became Senior Pastor of Trinity Ministries in 1980 and started Truth Radio in 1994. Rogers has known Brother Grinstead for many years and was pleased to attend the National Prayer Breakfast with him and Mrs. Grinstead. “The National Prayer Breakfast is a special annual event and I am blessed to have been able to attend today with my good friends Brother and Mrs. Grinstead. “Bringing together people of faith, leaders, Members of Congress and the President of the United States to recognize the power of prayer is a strong way to start the year,” Rogers said. -###-
02.02.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after President Donald Trump made the FISA memo available to the American public. “I strongly support President Trump’s decision to make the FISA memo available to the public. Now the American people will be able to see this information and come to their own conclusions. I have read the memo and find it very troubling. Our nation’s sophisticated surveillance tools must never be used against Americans for political purposes.” -###-
01.31.2018	There is nothing more fundamental to our Republic than free elections, equal justice under the law, and honest government. Any threat to them can shake the foundations of our Constitution. Recently, some very disturbing information about the actions of a few high- ranking officials at the FBI and Justice Department has come to light. This information describes an effort to use the most sensitive law enforcement techniques to discredit and potentially nullify the 2016 election. We’ve all heard by now about the shady Steele dossier. We are learning the Democratic National Committee (DNC) and possibly even some officials at the FBI were behind the dossier. Then that same unreliable information was used by the FBI to get a secretive surveillance warrant to spy on the Trump campaign – or in other words, a warrant to spy on fellow Americans for political purposes. We have also learned of a small group of senior FBI officials seemingly scheming to get Donald Trump. Talks of an “insurance plan” against Mr. Trump, of secret “offsite” meetings and over 50,000 missing text messages many of which highlighted these efforts. And remember one week we are told the 50,000 texts were forever lost due to a technical error and the next week we are told the FBI Inspector General was able to recover them. Sounds a lot like missing emails doesn’t it? There is growing interest in the public release of a four-page document written by my colleague, Congressman Devin Nunes (CA) who serves as Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee that outlines many of these suspicious actions. Especially the potentially illegal use of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) to spy on President Trump. This document, which I had the opportunity to read in secured area in the U.S. Capitol, was very troubling to me. The memo must be released to the public. The American people have the right to know the truth. As always, I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and you can also subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
01.30.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers announced he will be holding new weekly events when Congress is in session that will be open to any constituents visiting Washington, D.C. “Mornings with Mike” will be held in Rogers’ Washington office in the Rayburn House Office Building. The meetings will offer East Alabamians a unique chance to meet with Congressman Rogers while enjoying coffee and donuts in his office. “I have always had my offices open to everyone across the Third Congressional District, but these weekly events will give folks the chance to come in and share their concerns and visit with my staff and me. I am looking forward to hosting these events and hope people will take advantage of them when in our nation’s capital,” Rogers said. The event will be hosted each session week on Wednesday morning at 9:30 a.m. EST in 2184 Rayburn. Anyone interested in attending should sign up on Mike’s website to ensure enough coffee and donuts are ordered each week. The dates for the February meetings are: 7th, 14th and 28th. Please visit https://mikerogers.house.gov/mornings-with-mike for more information, or call Rogers’ Washington, D.C. office at 202.225.3261. -###-
01.17.2018	As most folks across East Alabama know, the United States has a serious illegal immigration problem. As if that weren’t enough, on top of our ongoing problems with illegal immigration, some of our legal immigration practices present a threat to our national security as well. I agree with President Trump that chain migration and the visa lottery system are the top problems that must be fixed. In a number of our most recent terrorist attacks on U.S. soil, terrorists have easily entered our country through one of these programs. Chain migration is an easy way for a U.S. citizen or green card holder to get family members from another country into ours. Individuals are granted entry to the United States based on familial relations and the number of instances this method is being used is through the roof. The failed suicide bomber that attempted to blow himself up in the New York City subway in December entered the country through chain migration. The visa lottery, a random drawing for a visa, makes no sense either. The terrorist behind the Halloween attack, also in New York, entered our country through the visa lottery. It is crystal clear terrorists are using our lax immigration laws to enter the U.S. President Trump is exactly right that we need to change the current immigration system to one that is a merit-based system. A recent report from the Department of Justice (DOJ) and Department of Homeland Security (DHS) found that three out of four individuals who have been convicted of international terrorism-related charges from September 11th through 2016 were foreign-born and entered our country through our immigration system. Finally, I would add that the fiancée visa program is yet another area that could be exploited by our enemies and should be examined. One of the terrorists behind the mass shooting in San Bernadino, California, entered our country through this program. I will continue to support and work with President Trump on these issues. Our nation’s borders must be secure and I will continue to push for a wall on the Southwest border with Mexico as well. Defending our homeland is a national priority and it begins with sealing the borders and preventing terrorists and criminals from entering our country.
01.09.2018	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed his legislation, H.R. 4577, the Domestic Explosives Detection Canine Capacity Building Act of 2017. “I have long advocated for the use of canines in transportation security. These canines are more efficient than any machine and more cost-effective. “With the rise of ISIS-inspired attacks around the world on soft targets, these canines are stretched to their limits. It is past time for DHS to work with American breeders as well as the private sector to increase the volume of these animals that are available. “The passage of my legislation in the House today marks another step forward in protecting Americans.” This legislation creates a working group on the standards for the breeding and training of explosive canines. It will consist of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), the Office of Science and Technology (S&T), private sector industry, leading veterinarians and academics with first-hand knowledge, the group’s final report on standards should reflect the latest in canine science and will be presented to the TSA Administrator for further breeding development as well as future canine procurement. Currently, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) secures most of its canines from vendors in Europe with just a few hundred coming from the U.S. This is due, in part, to private sector American canine breeders and vendors not having the resources to navigate DHS’ arcane procurement rules. It is common-sense to create these high standards to produce world-class detection canines here at home. Congressman Rogers serves as a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee. -###-
12.19.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed the Conference Report for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. “After over 30 years, the day has finally come for this historic tax legislation to simplify our broken tax code. I was pleased the bill passed the House today with my strong support and look forward to seeing the relief it brings to hard-working families across East Alabama and America. “The legislation will let Americans keep more of their hard-earned paychecks, will lower the corporate tax rate to make American businesses more competitive and will increase the Child Tax Credit. The bill also eliminates Obamacare’s individual mandate so that families can have more freedom in their health care decisions. “I hope the Senate will move quickly on this legislation so that President Trump can sign this important bill into law. I appreciate President Trump’s leadership on this historic tax reform legislation.” -###-
12.15.2017	Every year during the Christmas season, I like to take some time to highlight a few of the great things folks are doing for each other across East Alabama. Below is a small sampling of what is going on in the Third District. In Randolph County, the Pilot Club provides toys for less fortunate children in the area. Across Chambers County, the Christian Service Center provides food, clothing and gifts for families in need. In Macon County, the Tuskegee Fire Department participates in “Toys for Tots.” The City of Tuskegee and Town of Shorter employees adopt families through DHR for Christmas and the Macon County Ministers Council provides for families in need. In Talladega County, folks in Sylacauga participated in the Second Annual Stuff the Bus Food and Toy Drive. Last year, the efforts fed more than 4,200 in December and provided over 100 families with toys. This year, the food and toy drive was triple last year’s totals. In Talladega, Honda Manufacturing of Alabama gave toys and food items to needy families in the area. In Calhoun County, the Knox Concert Series in Anniston continued its four-decade tradition and held two school day performances of The Nutcracker for free for the third grade students in the area. In Montgomery County, at Pike Road Town Hall, hygiene and food items are being collected for the Central Alabama Veterans Health Care System and the Food Pantry at Woodland United Methodist Church. First Baptist Church (Ripley Street) ‘Meals on wheels’ programs serves hundreds throughout the city. In Russell County, the Mayor’s Charity Ball in Phenix City provides annual scholarships to over 20 students in Russell County. Donations come from local business owners. It is always amazing to me to see how much our brothers and sisters across East Alabama do for one another. Let’s keep that spirit up throughout the year instead of just during the holidays. As always, I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and you can also subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
12.12.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after President Donald Trump signed the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 in to law this afternoon. “I was proud to see the National Defense Authorization Act for FY18 become law today with President Trump’s signature. This critical piece of legislation funds the Pentagon, takes care of our brave men and women in uniform and helps the Anniston Army Depot. This legislation also includes the transfer of 1911s to the Civilian Marksmanship Program (CMP) so they can prepare and sell the firearms to law-abiding citizens. I am proud to have served as a conferee on this important bill and pleased to see it become law.” Rogers serves as a senior member on the House Armed Services Committee and the Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee. -###-
11.30.2017	Washington has been a busy place this year. As folks across East Alabama may have seen in the news, time and time again, legislation passes in the House and either stalls or fails in the Senate. It makes it tough to get things done around here. A prime example occurred earlier this year. The House kept President Trump’s promise to repeal and replace Obamacare. Unfortunately, the legislation did not pass in the Senate when they could not get to 50 votes. Vice President Pence was ready to break the tie. The House also recently passed a bill that would reauthorize the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). This important bill extends funding for CHIP and other programs low-income children rely on. The House passed legislation has not yet reached the Senate Floor. This summer, the House worked hard to pass legislation that included $1.6 billion in funding to help build the wall on the Southwest border to help fulfill one of President Trump’s top priorities. The House also passed two bills addressing illegal immigration. The first would help keep Sanctuary Cities from protecting illegal immigrants who’ve committed crimes and the second would impose tougher penalties on illegal immigrant criminals who have come in to the country. These bills have since stalled in the Senate. The House passed comprehensive tax reform just before Thanksgiving. As of writing, the Senate is working on their version. Let’s hope they can pass it so we can get closer to delivering one of the largest tax cuts for hard-working families. The momentum we have created in the House for President Trump’s agenda just has not carried over to the Senate. The House has done its job, now I hope our colleagues in the upper Chamber will begin to put America first. As always, I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and you can also subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
11.16.2017	As most folks across East Alabama may have seen recently in the news, Robert Mueller, the special counsel appointed to investigate the alleged Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential campaign, has been in the spotlight. Mr. Mueller has a very important job to do and he must do it fairly and in a nonpartisan manner. Details have come out in the past few weeks about Hillary Clinton’s campaign and the Democrat National Committee (DNC) role in funding a dossier on then-presidential candidate Donald Trump. The dossier was full of information that was unverified and painted Mr. Trump in a negative light. The dossier was put together by a man named Christopher Steele, a foreign intelligence agent, and is sometimes referred to as the Steele Dossier. The DNC and Clinton campaign hired a company called Fusion GPS, which has very deep ties to Russia, to conduct some of the research. We now know that some of the information used in the dossier may have been the basis of the Obama Administration’s decision to begin spying on members of the Trump campaign – spying on Americans. This should raise more than just eyebrows. It is more than troubling. The liberal media elite is obsessed with Russian meddling and President Trump, but there are real questions about Secretary Clinton and the DNC’s involvement with Russia during the 2016 presidential election. I believe that there should also be an investigation into then-Secretary Clinton’s involvement in the approval of the Uranium One deal and donations made to the Clinton Foundation. Robert Mueller, or another appropriate special counsel, needs to dig deep in to the details of this matter that could be the real heart of Russian influence. The American people deserve to know the truth and learn more beyond what the liberal media elite and the Democrat spin cycle chooses to believe and to report on. I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and you can also subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
11.16.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. This legislation should help fix our broken tax code which hasn’t been reformed in over 30 years. “I am proud this legislation passed the House today with my support. This bill will help families across East Alabama and the nation keep more of their hard-earned paychecks and will help small business thrive and create new jobs. The bill will also close loopholes, end the Death Tax and protect folks’ IRA and 401k plans. “I appreciate President Trump’s leadership on tax reform and am thrilled to see the House pass this important legislation today.” -###-
11.08.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today ahead of Veterans Day on November 11th. “Our country’s brave men and women who have selflessly served our country in uniform are honored today. These individuals are real American heroes. “As we honor our Veterans, let’s remember those who’ve paid the ultimate sacrifice in fighting to protect our freedoms and pray for their families they left behind. God bless our Veterans and God bless America.” -###-
11.08.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today regarding the release of a fiscal year 2018 budget amendment. “I want to commend President Trump for agreeing with us that our Nation needs additional missile defense resources in light of the evolving North Korean ballistic missile threats. The request from the Office of Management and Budget this week on behalf of President Trump will aid our push for increased discrimination capabilities and the addition of a new field at Fort Greely will help build our capacity. I am proud to be able to work with President Trump to help further secure the homeland against these growing threats. America is already more secure because of President Trump’s leadership.” -###-
11.08.2017	As part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018, HASC Strategic Forces Chairman Mike Rogers (AL) and Ranking Member Jim Cooper (TN) began a systematic effort to reform the Department of Defense national security space enterprise, starting with the United States Air Force. Chairman Rogers and Ranking Member Cooper released the following joint statement: “We are pleased the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 takes the first step in fundamentally changing and improving the national security space programs of the Department of Defense and the U.S. Air Force in particular. “After months of thorough oversight, it became clear that the Department of Defense, and the Air Force in particular, did not prioritize space capabilities even as threats increase, and were not structured in a way to ensure that we are able to deter, defend and if necessary fight and win in space. No single official could be held accountable for the success or failure of the space enterprise. Too many bureaucrats are empowered to say ‘no’ when it comes to defending our assets in space, and too few were empowered to say ‘yes’. “At a time when Russia and China are developing new offensive capabilities designed to deafen and blind America in a future conflict, lack of accountability and leadership on space issues, as well as development and acquisition failures, undermine our national security and leave the country vulnerable. The Air Force will no longer be able to treat space as a third-order priority after fighter jets and bombers. “We have consolidated leadership and coordination between operations, acquisition and training, and eliminated the decentralized and ineffective structure that for too long hampered our space capabilities and readiness. “We have refashioned Air Force Space Command similar to the Air Corps Act of 1926 which established the Army Air Corps. We will work closely with the Deputy Secretary of Defense, who will be responsible for managing these changes, and we will closely oversee the Secretary of the Air Force to ensure her full compliance with the legislation. “This is just the first step. We will not allow the United States national security space enterprise to continue to drift towards a Space Pearl Harbor.” Additional background on National Security Space Reforms in the FY18 NDAA: • Air Force Space Command will now be the sole authority for organizing, training, and equipping all space forces within the Air Force, answerable only to the Secretary of the Air Force, who will answer to Congress. • Reduces OSD bureaucracy by eliminating the position Principal Defense Space Advisor, currently assigned to the Secretary of the Air Force; • Eliminates the Defense Space Council; • Eliminates the position of Deputy Chief of Staff for Space Operations, a hastily developed half-measure initiated by the Secretary of the Air Force, which at best only added a box on the organization chart. • Reassigns responsibility for managing Major Force Program 12, the Department’s budget category for national security space, from the Secretary of the Air Force. • To ensure the full and faithful execution of this reorganization, the NDAA also requires the DepSecDef to enter in a contract with a Federally-funded Research and Development Corporation, without affiliation with the U.S. Air Force, to provide Congress with a road map to establish a separate military department responsible for national security space activities of the DoD, which may be required as Congress evaluates how supportive the DoD about this reorganization. -###-
11.06.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers reminds any graduating high school seniors for 2018 interested in receiving a Congressional nomination to attend one of the U.S. Service Academies to complete an application, which is available at http://mikerogers.house.gov/constituent-services/academy-nominations, and mail it to one of his district offices soon. To be considered for a nomination for appointment to any of the service academies, including the U.S. Military Academy, the Naval Academy, the Air Force Academy and the Merchant Marines Academy, seniors must complete Rogers’ application material and mail the completed packets to one of Rogers’ district offices. The applications can be sent to: Congressman Mike Rogers Attn: Service Academy Application 1129 Noble Street, Suite 104 Anniston, AL 36201 OR Congressman Mike Rogers Attn: Service Academy Application 701 Avenue A, Suite 300 Opelika, AL 36801 The deadline for receipt of these applications is December 15, 2017. Please visit www.mikerogers.house.gov/constituent-services/academy-nominations with any questions, or call Rogers’ Washington, D.C. office at 202.225.3261. -###-
11.03.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3922, the Championing Healthy Kids Act. This legislation provides a five-year extension of the state Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and helps fund other important health programs. “I am pleased this fiscally-responsible legislation passed the House today with my support. CHIP provides children in lower-income families with health care coverage. This bill will help fund this critical program for our children across East Alabama and the country.” -###-
11.02.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today on his support of H.R. 3034, the Justin Smith Morrill Congressional Gold Medal Act. The bill would posthumously award the Congressional Gold Medal to the Honorable Justin Smith Morrill, the father of our nation’s land-grant university system. Currently the bill is in its committees of jurisdiction. “With two outstanding land grant universities in the Third Congressional District, Tuskegee University and Auburn University, I was proud to cosponsor this legislation to posthumously award the highest honors to a dedicated public servant – serving as both a U.S. Senator and Member of the House of Representatives and best known for the two Morrill Land-Grant Colleges Acts, which created universities with a focus on agricultural studies all across the United States. “These pieces of legislation helped fund and make Tuskegee University and Auburn University what they are today. As a senior member of the House Committee on Agriculture, I know just how important these universities are to our state’s economy. The research that is done at land-grant universities is second to none. Our great State is forever indebted to Justin Smith Morrill.” -###-
11.01.2017	As most folks across East Alabama have seen in the news lately, President Trump and Congress are working together to help make our broken tax code fairer and simpler. The House and Senate have both passed the Fiscal Year 2018 Budget Resolution which clears the path to start tax reform and it has been quite some time since this has happened. Guy Hunt was elected first Republican Governor of Alabama in over 100 years, Auburn’s Bo Jackson was first pick of the NFL Draft by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, The Bangles were topping the charts, The Oprah Winfrey Show made its first national broadcast, Teddy Ruxpin was every child’s dream toy and the TV show “Dallas” brought Bobby Ewing back from the dead. That was the last time the tax code was reformed – the year was 1986. These are all great memories to look back on, but it’s amazing how much has changed since we’ve done anything on tax reform. Now Congress will begin the overhaul by simplifying our tax code. Hard-working American families deserve to take home more of their hard-earned paychecks, and President Trump’s tax plan will help make that happen. The plan will also give families more time together by making it easier to file. Instead of spending countless hours on filing taxes, the plan will make filing as easy as filling out a form the size of a postcard. The plan will give families back that time and money spent on preparing for Tax Day. The tax plan will also help our small businesses, which are the backbone of our local economies, by lowering tax rates and leveling the playing field. Closing special interest loopholes and rewarding hard work should help encourage investment back in America and help bring more good-paying jobs back home. I support President Trump’s efforts to reform our broken tax code to make things easier on the hard-working families across East Alabama. Learn more about the plan at fairandsimple.gop and sign up for SMS notifications on tax reform by texting “TAX REFORM” to 50589. I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and you can also subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
11.01.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the terrorist attack in lower Manhattan yesterday. “No amount of political correctness from Democrats and the liberal media elite will stop violent Islamic terrorists from trying to kill us. “The attack in New York City yesterday is evidence that everything President Trump is advocating for is exactly right and needed. We must have extreme vetting. We must reform our broken immigration system especially by getting rid of the visa lottery program and chain immigration. And we must secure our borders and that starts with building the wall. Words and feelings won’t keep us safe. Actions will.” -###-
10.31.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today on his support of H.R. 2909, the D.C. Personal Protection Reciprocity Act. The bill would allow any American citizen with a valid handgun carry permit in any other state or jurisdiction, to carry certain concealed firearms for self-defense while in Washington, D.C. Currently the bill is in the House Committee of Oversight and Government Reform. “As a strong supporter of our Second Amendment rights, I was pleased to cosponsor this important piece of legislation. It is just common-sense that the same rules should apply in our nation’s capital that we follow across the country. “I hope this legislation will come to the House Floor soon for a vote. I will continue to fight for the rights of gun owners in Congress.” -###-
10.26.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement after House passage of the Senate Amendment to H. Con. Res. 71, the Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 Budget Resolution. “Today’s vote is the beginning of the biggest tax overhaul in thirty years. I am hopeful both the House and Senate will take up and pass President Trump’s tax plan as soon as possible. “Simplifying the tax code, lowering rates and making small businesses more competitive will improve take-home pay for hard-working American families. I agree with President Trump that our tax system should reward hard work and encourage investment in the private sector. Closing special interest loopholes and simplifying the tax code will save everyone billions of dollars spent on filling out IRS paperwork each year. “I will continue to work with President Trump to make our tax code simpler and fairer, help our small businesses and help folks keep more of their paychecks.” -###-
10.12.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after President Trump signed the health care executive order. “Obamacare is a very flawed law and I am glad President Trump signed an executive order today to help out hard-working families across East Alabama who are seeing their health care premiums rise and their coverage shrink. “This executive order should be a good first step in fighting against Obamacare by giving folks more common sense and affordable health care options and more control over those options. It should also help make it easier for small business owners to join together to create an Association Health Plan (AHP) to help offer employees more affordable health insurance.” On May 4, 2017, the House, with Rogers’ strong support, passed legislation that was an important step toward to repeal and replace Obamacare. -###-
10.12.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after joining his colleagues to co-sign a submission to the United Nations (U.N.) to halt all pro-abortion efforts to reinterpret language in a treaty duly ratified by the United States. The submission states, “As lawmakers, we believe we have a duty to protect the weak, disenfranchised, unwanted and vulnerable from violence and abuse. Therefore, we write to affirm that the most elemental human right of all – the right to life – includes unborn children. Accordingly, we oppose any attempt by the Human Rights Committee (HRC) to reinterpret Article 6 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) so as to abrogate the right to life of the unborn human being, or seek to impose any novel obligation upon States that they never contemplated the time the ICCPR was negotiated, signed and ratified.” “Most folks know I am a supporter of leaving the United Nations all together, but if we are going to continue to be a part, then we must hold them accountable. The U.N. must protect life – especially the lives of unborn babies.” -###-
10.05.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today regarding H.R. 3548. “I was proud to support H.R. 3548 in the House Homeland Security Committee yesterday. This bill authorizes $10 billion for border security, including wall construction and technology upgrades. It also increases the number of border patrol and customs agents so we have more boots on the ground and gives border states the increased flexibility to deploy National Guard troops to hotspots. I strongly support President Trump’s position that we must build a border wall. This bill provides important tools that the Trump Administration will be able to use to implement much needed border security reforms. “However, I was shocked by some of the Democrat members on the committee using the markup to propose joke amendments, replace existing law with nonsense and generally wasting the time of everyone present. I do not think Americans find strengthening our border security and protecting American sovereignty a laughing matter.” -###-
10.04.2017	As you may have seen on the news recently, a sports organization that has been such a favorite pastime of our country, the National Football League (NFL), has become a complete and utter embarrassment to our country. I have been appalled by the recent and ongoing disrespectful acts by some of the NFL players that refuse to stand to honor the American flag during the playing of the National Anthem. These disrespectful protests only serve to divide us and do nothing to foster unity. It is a display of such disrespect to kneel during the playing of our country’s National Anthem. The playing of the Star Spangled Banner should be a time we show respect to those who have put everything on the line to fight for America. It is a time we should show respect for all of those families who forever mourn the lives of loved ones who died fighting for our country. And a time we should show respect for each other. Those few minutes during the National Anthem is a time when we all stand together – no race, no sex, no status – just Americans standing with hand over heart. I applaud President Trump for standing up against this obnoxious behavior. I agree with him 100 percent. The NFL should be ashamed it allowed these despicable actions to take place. Everyone is afforded the right to protest. But these protests should be on their own time and not during the playing of the National Anthem. Last week I was proud to cosponsor H.Res. 532, introduced by Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that persons present who are not in uniform or are not members of the Armed Forces or veterans “should face the flag and stand at attention with their hand over the heart.” The National Anthem and the American flag are symbols of all that makes America great in our never ending effort to become a more perfect union. May God continue to bless our great nation. I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and you can also subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
10.04.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement after the House passed H.R. 36, the Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. “I am proud to support this important pro-life legislation. At 20 weeks in the mother’s womb, a fetus has developed into a baby moving its new limbs and starting to grow hair. That tiny baby can feel pain. This bill will protect those innocent lives and keep them safe from pain and suffering.” -###-
09.27.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement regarding the Republican’s framework for tax reform. “I strongly support the tax reform framework outlined today by President Trump and the House Republican Leadership. Tax reform is the single best way to grow our economy. Hard working Americans are due a fairer and simpler tax code. “The tax reform framework is just the first step towards helping families keep more of what they earn, create more good-paying jobs in America and help small businesses. “I look forward to working with President Trump as we work to make our broken tax code fairer and simpler for the folks across East Alabama and the country so they can keep more of what they earn.” -###-
09.27.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement regarding ongoing disrespectful acts by some of the National Football League (NFL) players during the National Anthem. “I am appalled by those in the NFL that show disrespect during the playing of the National Anthem. The National Anthem and our American flag are symbols of all that makes America great in our never ending effort to become a more perfect union. The sacrifice of all the brave Americans in service of our nation, past and present, is honored by the National Anthem. These disrespectful protests only serve to divide us and do nothing to foster unity. “I am very proud of President Trump for standing against these unconscionable acts and am behind him 100 percent. May God bless our great nation.” Rogers also cosponsored H.Res. 532, introduced by Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that persons present who are not in uniform or are not members of the Armed Forces or veterans “should face the flag and stand at attention with their hand over the heart.” -###-
09.15.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks in advance of the 230th anniversary of the adoption of the United States Constitution on Sunday. “September 17th is the 230th anniversary of the United States Constitution. Across this great nation, we celebrate today this important document our Founding Fathers wrote over two centuries ago. “As a member of Congress, it is my duty to uphold and defend our Constitution. Americans expect their government to adhere to the principles in this important document and I will continue to fight for it.” -###-
09.13.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the House passage of his legislation, H.R. 2470, The Homeland Threat Assessment Act yesterday. “The 9/11 Commission revealed that a “failure of imagination” contributed to our country’s inability to identify the emerging threat posed by al Qaeda. As a result, we were blind to the approaching tragedy. “Sixteen years later, our ability to accurately identify and evaluate threats to the Homeland remains stunted. Though talented professionals across federal agencies and at the State and local level are hard at work gathering and analyzing threat information, there is not a formalized process that evaluates homeland threats in a meaningful, comprehensive way. “H.R. 2470 closes this gap by requiring the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to release an annual, comprehensive homeland security threat assessment. This will provide a common threat picture across DHS and for Federal, State and local partners. I believe the best way to honor the memory of those who lost their lives that day and since in the fight against terrorism is to hold our government to a high standard.” -#-#-#-
09.08.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today in advance of the 16th anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks and the fifth anniversary of the deadly attack on Americans in Benghazi, Libya. “September 11th was a dark day for our country with the deadly terrorist attacks in 2001 and the attack in Benghazi in 2012. We will never forget and I hope folks across East Alabama will say a special prayer for our country and the families that lost loved ones. “May God continue to bless the United States of America.” -###-
09.07.2017	As Congress gears back up after a very busy August District Work Period, I wanted to share some of my experiences while I was back home in Alabama. I made my way across almost all of the Third Congressional District and am coming back to Washington excited about the future of our great state. As most of you know, the Agriculture industry drives the economy in Alabama. I was able to attend ALFA meetings in several counties and even had the chance to visit with the 2017 ALFA Young Farm Family of the Year in Cleburne County. As a senior member of the House Agriculture Committee, I have always made it a priority to encourage our young folks to get involved in farming and the ag industry. In Talladega County, I was impressed with my tour of Alabama Childhood Solutions. They are working to break the cycle of government dependency while providing nutritious food to kids in the area. USDA programs that support their mission are authorized by the Farm Bill. In Calhoun County, I toured the Anniston Fire Department Regional Training Center, the Public Safety Complex in Jacksonville and visited with the Acting Superintendent of the Center for Domestic Preparedness (CDP). As a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee, these facilities are so important in keeping our communities safe, and the CDP’s mission is critical in training first responders to protect us from those who wish us harm. I was also able to visit with soldiers at the Army National Guard Training Center and thank them for their service to our country. I visited Trinity Christian Academy students on their first day of school and joined Brother Grinstead on his Christian radio station. In Tallapoosa County, I was proud to attend the grand opening of Our Town/Willow Point Volunteer Fire Department and present them a U.S. flag to fly at their new building. In Chambers County, I met with the Industrial Development Authority board to get an update on what’s going on and also toured the 911 Center in Lanett. I visited Auburn University to see the exciting things going on there including their new Edward Via College of Osteopathic Medicine (VCOM)facility. I stopped by and had lunch with old and new friends in Cherokee County and made my way to Clay County to visit Wellborn Cabinet. It was a busy few weeks, but my biggest takeaway from my time home was seeing the outpouring of prayers, support and donations for our brothers and sisters affected by Hurricane Harvey. We should continue to keep all those families who lost everything in our prayers as they start to rebuild their lives.
09.05.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today regarding the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. “I applaud President Trump and Attorney General Sessions’ decision today to end the DACA program. Despite former President Obama’s reliance on executive orders to create unconstitutional immigrant amnesty programs, it is the Congress’ constitutional duty to write laws. Before considering any immigration reform, Congress should first pass legislation to fund the Border Wall. Only after securing the border, can Congress in good faith address immigration reform.” -###-
08.15.2017	Chairman Mike Rogers (R-AL) and Ranking Member Jim Cooper (D-TN) sent a bipartisan letter to President Donald Trump today urging him to support additional missile defense funding of $2.5 billion included in the House passed National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to help the United States better prepare and handle the most recent North Korean threats. The bill was passed in July following successful tests of North Korean missile technology. “President Trump has already begun to make tremendous strides in rebuilding our national defense. And his strong stand against the North Korean threat is greatly welcomed. Today, I ask President Trump to fully support the $2.5 billion increase to ensure we are completely prepared to deal with any threat that comes out of North Korea. The funding Mr. Cooper and I have requested is the same amount that passed overwhelmingly by the House in this year’s NDAA,” Rogers said. The letter stated, “The recent North Korean progress on its nuclear weapons capabilities and particularly the intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) tests by North Korea, present an increased threat to our homeland, regional stability, and the 28,500 American service members and their families deployed to the Korean Peninsula…This proposed funding would enhance reliability and discrimination capabilities for homeland missile defense by developing space-based sensors for discrimination and increasing the number of ground-based interceptors necessary for spares and tests, increase funding for missile defense technology research, and increase procurement of THAAD and Patriot interceptors.” Rogers is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee and Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee. - ### -
08.14.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers (AL-03) held a Town Hall meeting Thursday morning at the Southern Union campus in Opelika and another Town Hall Thursday afternoon at the Oxford Civic Center in Oxford. Both events had around 200 in attendance. Longtime Alabama broadcaster Jim Vice served as the moderator for the Opelika event. Smiths Station Mayor Bubba Copeland who also serves as the youth minister at First Baptist Church in Phenix City opened the meeting with prayer. Senator Tom Whatley, who represents District 27 in the Alabama Legislature and is a Colonel in the Army National Guard led the Pledge of Allegiance. Former Congressman Glen Browder, a Jacksonville State University professor, who also served in the Alabama State House and as Alabama Secretary of State, served as the moderator for the Oxford event. Pastor C.O. Grinstead, pastor of Trinity Baptist Church in Oxford opened the meeting with prayer. Randy Boyer, the Senior Vice Commander for Chapter 98 of the Disabled American Veterans organization for Anniston and Oxford who served as a First Class Petty Officer in the United States Navy led the Pledge of Allegiance. Rogers answered questions about national security, illegal immigration, President Trump, health care and other constituent concerns. “Since the media won’t do it, I was glad I had the opportunity to discuss firsthand how I strongly support President Trump’s America’s First agenda. “Every August District Work Period I make my way across East Alabama to visit with folks and am pleased I was able to host public forums today in Lee and Calhoun Counties. “I want to thank Southern Union State Community College and the Cities of Opelika and Oxford for being such welcoming hosts. I also want to thank the local law enforcement for their role in keeping the events safe and secure for all attendees,” Rogers said. Rogers is Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) Strategic Forces subcommittee and a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee and House Agriculture Committee. -#-#-#-
07.27.2017	As many of you may have seen on the news, President Trump recognized the last week in July as American Heroes Week. The week was dedicated to celebrating our American Heroes and the roles they play in our daily lives. From our military to our local law enforcement to our first responders and the American worker, these folks were recognized for what they do each day. It goes without saying that the brave men and women who have served or currently serve our country in uniform are heroes. Those currently serving deserve the best equipment we can provide them and those who have served deserve the best care. Recently, the House of Representatives passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that increased defense funding by $21 billion to address taking care of our military while securing the safety of our homeland. Every day as our local law enforcement puts on their uniform, they know they are risking their lives to keep our communities safe and we can never thank them enough. I appreciate the respect and attention President Trump has shown our law enforcement since taking office. We have to also recognize our first responders. They save lives every day. Just since January, Alabama’s Third Congressional District has received over $2 million in funding to help our local volunteer fire departments and first responders purchase new fire trucks and operation and safety equipment. In our communities and towns, the first responders are our first line of defense in keeping us safe. We also cannot forget the American worker as we list our American Heroes. President Trump’s “Hire American, Buy American” plan is putting hard working Americans back in good-paying jobs and is bringing a sense of pride back to the American worker. This week and every week, let’s take a minute to thank our American Heroes.
07.14.2017	As many of you across East Alabama may have heard, the House of Representatives passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018. While this bill helps rebuild America’s military, it also contains language that could positively affect us locally. Included in the NDAA was an amendment I offered that would allow the Army to release excess 1911 pistols from storage and transfer them to the Civilian Marksmanship Program (CMP) for them to inspect, grade, prepare for sale and sell the pistols to the public. This policy has been included in the NDAA since 2015, but the Obama Administration blocked the Army to transfer the 1911s for political reasons. I am hopeful that with the help of the Trump Administration, we can make this provision a reality. The Anniston Army Depot (ANAD) also will see the benefit of some of the language that I was happy to be able to help shape. Like one that would extend the authority of the Department of Defense to pay depot employees deployed to combat zones an additional allowance and benefits due to the dangerous nature of their locations. Another provision would also extend authority to make it easier for the Depot’s leadership to consider temporary and term employees for permanent positions when they become available. This policy allows the leadership at the Depot the maximum flexibility and gives them the ability to hire good folks they have already trained. I am proud this year’s bill included a 2.4 percent pay raise for our military. This would be the biggest pay raise in eight years. These brave Americans protect our freedoms and liberties every day and we owe them so much. The NDAA still has to go to conference committee with the Senate, but I am pleased with the legislation that passed the House and will continue to fight to make sure America’s military is robust and fully equipped. I want to hear from you. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and you can also subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
06.29.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3003, the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act, and H.R. 3004, Kate’s Law. The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act helps keep Sanctuary Cities from protecting illegal immigrants who have committed crime from the federal immigration enforcement. The legislation also contains Sarah and Grant’s Law, which ensures any illegal immigrant convicted of a dangerous crime will be detained for the duration of his or her removal proceedings. This provision is named for Sarah Root who was killed in a drunk driving accident by an illegal immigrant who is still at large and for Grant Ronnebeck who was murdered at a convenience store by a convicted felon who was free on bond before he was deported. Kate’s Law is named for Kate Steinle who was murdered by an illegal immigrant who was convicted of several felonies and had been deported five times. “I am honored to have voted for these two bills to recognize the lives of these three innocent individuals. Our broken immigration system can have deadly consequences. We must enforce our immigration laws to help keep the citizens of America safe and protect our sovereignty. Criminal illegal immigrants pose a threat to our country and must be dealt with,” Rogers said. Rogers is a senior member of the Homeland Security Committee, the Agriculture Committee and Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee. -###-
06.29.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) passed out of committee the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The bill passed last night authorizes funds for base budget requirements of $631.5 billion, including a $28.5 billion increase for essential readiness recovery above the initial budget request. The bill passed with Rogers’ full support. The legislation included language important for the Third Congressional District that affects the Civilian Marksmanship Program (CMP) and the Anniston Army Depot (ANAD). The amendment would compel the Army to release M1911A1 pistols to the CMP. Transferring these vintage pistols to the CMP would allow them to inspect, grade, prepare for sale and sell these pistols. The CMP would reimburse the Army for costs associated with the transferring of the pistols. CMP South, headquartered in Anniston, Alabama, oversees sales. Similar language has been in the last two NDAAs, but the previous Obama Administration would not allow the Army to deliver the pistols to the CMP for political reasons. Rogers’ amendment, supported by the NRA, authorizes and directs the Army to complete the delivery. “I am thrilled my amendment on 1911 pistols passed the committee. The fight for this is still not over, but I will continue to push this issue as the legislation moves to the House floor. The real battle will be in Conference with the Senate,” Rogers said. The NDAA also included language that would further strengthen ANAD. One provision extends the authority of the Department of Defense to pay depot employees deployed to combat zones additional allowances and benefits because of the dangerous nature of their locations. A second provision extends authority for another year to make it easier for the depot to consider temporary and term employees for permanent positions. Language was also included to study some of the funding mechanisms of the depot in hopes of using the information to make workload planning more dependable and consistent. “The men and women and the Anniston Army Depot work very hard to support our nation’s warfighter and I want to ensure we are doing everything we can in Congress to support them,” Rogers said. Rogers is a senior member of HASC and Chairman of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee. -###-
06.29.2017	As most folks across East Alabama know, the Supreme Court recently struck down in part the preliminary injunction against President Trump’s terrorist travel ban and will hear the case when the Supreme Court picks back up in October. This comes as great news in helping keep America safe after the repeated terrorist attacks across Europe. Many in the media elite are made uncomfortable when we call this form of terrorism what it is: Radical Islam. I am not. We cannot afford to give this hateful and totalitarian ideology an opportunity to further infiltrate and attack America. The Supreme Court’s decision was a victory for President Trump by allowing the plan to go into effect. I strongly support President Trump’s extreme vetting policy and believe it will help keep Islamic extremists out of the United States. However, it is still possible the Supreme Court will try to strike down the ban after hearing the case in October. If this happens, I plan to introduce legislation to expressly give the president legal authority to keep potential terrorists out of our country. Congress is also working on protecting Americans from another angle by tightening immigration enforcement and punishing sanctuary cities. This week, the House of Representatives is voting on two bills that I fully support. The first bill, H.R. 3003, the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act, helps keep these Sanctuary Cities from protecting illegal immigrants who have committed crime from federal immigration enforcement, and contains Sarah and Grant’s Law, which ensures any illegal immigrant convicted of a dangerous crime will be detained for the duration of his or her removal proceedings. The second bill, H.R. 3004, Kate’s Law, further strengthens penalties for any illegal immigrant felon who has been deported and returns to the U.S. And as part of President Trump’s agenda, our country still needs to build a wall along our porous Southwest border with Mexico. My bill, H.R. 1813, would help pay for this wall to be built by imposing a fee on remittance transactions to South and Central America to be set aside to help pay for the wall. We must continue to do everything we can to keep America safe.
06.29.2017	As most folks across East Alabama know, the Supreme Court recently struck down in part the preliminary injunction against President Trump’s terrorist travel ban and will hear the case when the Supreme Court picks back up in October. This comes as great news in helping keep America safe after the repeated terrorist attacks across Europe. Many in the media elite are made uncomfortable when we call this form of terrorism what it is: Radical Islam. I am not. We cannot afford to give this hateful and totalitarian ideology an opportunity to further infiltrate and attack America. The Supreme Court’s decision was a victory for President Trump by allowing the plan to go into effect. I strongly support President Trump’s extreme vetting policy and believe it will help keep Islamic extremists out of the United States. However, it is still possible the Supreme Court will try to strike down the ban after hearing the case in October. If this happens, I plan to introduce legislation to expressly give the president legal authority to keep potential terrorists out of our country. Congress is also working on protecting Americans from another angle by tightening immigration enforcement and punishing sanctuary cities. This week, the House of Representatives is voting on two bills that I fully support. The first bill, H.R. 3003, the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act, helps keep these Sanctuary Cities from protecting illegal immigrants who have committed crime from federal immigration enforcement, and contains Sarah and Grant’s Law, which ensures any illegal immigrant convicted of a dangerous crime will be detained for the duration of his or her removal proceedings. The second bill, H.R. 3004, Kate’s Law, further strengthens penalties for any illegal immigrant felon who has been deported and returns to the U.S. And as part of President Trump’s agenda, our country still needs to build a wall along our porous Southwest border with Mexico. My bill, H.R. 1813, would help pay for this wall to be built by imposing a fee on remittance transactions to South and Central America to be set aside to help pay for the wall. We must continue to do everything we can to keep America safe.
06.26.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement after the Supreme Court struck down in part the preliminary injunction against President Trump’s Terrorist Travel Ban. “Today the Supreme Court rightly allowed most of President Trump’s plan to secure America from Islamic extremists to go into effect. I am confident President Trump will prevail on the merits of the case when it is heard in the high court’s October term. “However, there's a possibility our judicial system will fail to fully defend American sovereignty. In that case, I am working on legislation that would give the president broad authority to bar any person or group of people that could be members of or infiltrated by a terrorist organization. If the courts do not uphold the law, the Congress must act to protect American citizens.” -###-
06.15.2017	There are some good things happening in Washington that most folks don’t know about because the media elite just won’t cover it. The enthusiasm surrounding the election of President Trump has renewed the spirit of the American worker and entrepreneur alike. Confidence in our economy’s growth is spreading. Unemployment is at its lowest point in over a decade. Over 700,000 new jobs have been created and the stock market is at record highs. President Trump has overturned with Congress’ help over a dozen harmful regulations put in place by the Obama Administration like the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule that went as far as naming puddles bodies of water and yielding control to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Last week, with my strong support, the House passed legislation to roll back parts of the Dodd-Frank legislation to level the playing field for local banks, help small businesses get back to work and rein in the unconstitutional power of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). In fact, as of this writing, the House of Representatives has passed over 150 bills and President Trump has signed over 35 bills into law, placing his current accomplishments ahead of the past four administrations. According to the U.S. Border Patrol, apprehensions of illegals on the Southwest border are dropping dramatically. Agents on the border report that traffic has fallen over 70 percent from the end of 2016. My bill H.R 1813, the Border Wall Funding Act would make this trend permanent. Congress is also working with the president to rebuild the military, repeal and replace the flawed Obamacare legislation and reform our tax code. And for all of us that care about our deeply held values like the protecting the unborn and the Second Amendment, the confirmation of Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch was a tremendous victory. He’ll serve as a continued conservative voice on the high court as he replaces the late Antonin Scalia. The fake news has many across America thinking that nothing is going on in Washington, but the truth is, Congress and President Trump are working tirelessly to get our country back on track. I will continue to support President Trump and fight to bring back and preserve our conservative values.
06.14.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today in reaction to the shooting this morning at the Congressional baseball practice in Virginia. “The news of this morning’s shooting is horrific. I am not part of the baseball team and was not there, but my heartfelt prayers go out to everyone involved and especially to my good buddy, Steve Scalise. I echo what President Trump said today – ‘we are strongest when we are unified and when we work together for the common good.’ May God bless America.” -###-
06.13.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement after Attorney General Jeff Sessions testified before the Senate Intelligence Committee today. “Thank goodness for Jeff Sessions. He is a man of the highest integrity and honesty. “The American people heard the truth today. Now it's time for the liberal media elite and the Democrats to stop their frivolous attacks on President Trump so we can start the people's work.” -###-
06.08.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 10, The Creating Hope and Opportunity for Investors, Consumers and Entrepreneurs (CHOICE) Act today. The CHOICE Act should repeal parts of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act that have hurt our community banks and our small businesses. The legislation would end taxpayer-funded bailouts for good, hold Wall Street accountable and rein in the unconstitutional and unchecked power of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). “I was pleased to support the CHOICE Act today and hope it will help both the community banks across East Alabama by lifting unfair regulations as well as give a break to our small businesses. “For the past few years, small business owners could no longer go to their friend from church that also worked at the community bank to apply for a small loan for their business. Dodd-Frank really tied the hands of our local banks and how we do business in East Alabama. The Obama Administration treated small banks like they were responsible for the financial crisis of 2008 instead of Wall Street. “This bill makes sure no company can be designated as ‘too big to fail’ and should help level the playing field as well as rein in the CFPB,” Rogers said. Regulating the financial industry is also a priority for the Trump Administration. “The one-size-fits-all approach by the Dodd-Frank legislation only hurt our local banks and our small businesses. I am just glad to see some relief for our community banks and hope President Trump will continue getting America on the right track,” Rogers added. -###-
06.08.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement after James Comey testified before the Senate Intelligence Committee today. “In November, the American people rejected the liberal media elite and the politics of personal destruction to elect Donald Trump president. Despite this, the Democrats and liberal media elite are relentless in attacking the president with false allegations in an attempt to stop his agenda. They cannot come to grips with the fact that they lost the election and will resort to any tactic to hurt President Trump and thus America. “To date, there is no evidence of collusion between President Trump and the Russian government during the November election. Mr. Comey’s testimony only reinforced that the president did nothing wrong. Further, Mr. Comey admitted he and his associates are the source of damaging leaks. Mr. Comey has no credibility given the leaks and his past performance investigating Hillary Clinton. “The American people are sick and tired of fake news and attempts to stop our nation from moving forward. Washington needs to concentrate on the people’s business like repealing and replacing Obamacare, reforming the tax code, creating jobs and rebuilding the military. I strongly support President Trump and his agenda for America.” -###-
06.05.2017	The House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, chaired by Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), will hold a hearing on Wednesday, June 07, 2017 at 2:00 p.m. in 2112 Rayburn House Office Building on “FY2018 Priorities and Posture of Missile Defeat Programs and Activities.” Chairman Rogers said: “Our ballistic missile defenses have never been so self-evidently important as they are today as we watch Kim Jong Un’s unceasing ballistic missile test and development. In 2017 alone, we have seen a breakneck pace of new, successful North Korean ballistic missile development. “Our missile defenses are key to America’s ability to defend itself, and its allies, from North Korean belligerence. But, America’s ballistic missile defense has suffered a shameful neglect from eight years of the previous Administration. “My subcommittee did the best it could over the past five years to add resources and prioritize new ballistic missile defense development, but we did not have partners in the White House or Pentagon. That has now changed—we now have a President who made developing a ‘state-of-the-art’ missile defense a key plank in his platform to rebuild America’s defenses. Now is the time to seize the initiative, and this hearing will help us figure out how to do that in this year’s NDAA.” WHAT: HASC Strategic Forces Subcommittee Hearing: “FY2018 Priorities and Posture of Missile Defeat Programs and Activities” WHEN: Wednesday, June 07, 2017 at 2:00 p.m. WHERE: 2112 Rayburn House Office Building -###-
05.26.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement in honor of our fallen service men and women ahead of Memorial Day, May 29, 2017. “Memorial Day serves as a day to remember those brave men and women in uniform who served our country and paid the ultimate sacrifice for our freedoms. “Our heartfelt prayers are with all the families who have lost loved ones as we honor their sacrifice today and every day. God Bless the United States of America.” -###-
05.23.2017	The House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, chaired by Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), will hold a hearing on Thursday, May 25, 2017 at 10:00 a.m. in 2118 Rayburn House Office Building on “FY2018 Priorities for Nuclear Forces and Atomic Energy Defense Activities.” Chairman Rogers said: “This committee played a key role in building the current broad, bipartisan agreement on the importance of the U.S. nuclear deterrent and the urgent need to carry out the full nuclear modernization and recapitalization program. As the Trump Administration embarks on its Nuclear Posture Review, this hearing will again take stock of the priorities, policies and programs related to this highest priority defense mission. We will ensure the Department of Defense and the Department of Energy remain in lockstep on their shared responsibilities for nuclear deterrence as we collectively look towards a changing and increasingly dangerous nuclear future.” WHAT: HASC Strategic Forces Subcommittee Hearing: “FY2018 Priorities for Nuclear Forces and Atomic Energy Defense Activities" WHEN: Thursday, May 25, 2017 at 10:00 a.m. WHERE: 2118 Rayburn House Office Building -###-
05.18.2017	Across East Alabama, brave men and women serve every day as law enforcement officers. They sacrifice daily to help protect our communities and help keep us safe. This year, May 14th – 20th is recognized as National Police Week. In Washington, I was pleased to see President Trump light the White House in blue to recognize this important week. Here in the House of Representatives, Members will vote on several bills to honor the lives of the fallen and recognize those currently serving. The Honoring Hometown Heroes Act would permit the American flag to be flown at half-staff for any local law enforcement officer killed in the line of duty. The Thin Blue Line Act would add the murder of a police officer as an aggravating factor for a jury to decide on the death penalty. Congress also is striving to ensure that law enforcement has all of the tools they need to continue to serve and protect. For example, The Rapid DNA Act of 2017 would help expedite DNA analysis results to help law enforcement identify a suspect much quicker, The Strengthening State and Local Cyber Crime Fighting Act of 2017 would help train local officers in cyber and electronic crimes, The American Law Enforcement Heroes Act of 2017 would help prioritize hiring of our Veterans and The Probation Officer Protection Act of 2017 would allow probation officers to arrest an individual if there is probable cause. These pieces of legislation should go a long way to helping law enforcement do their jobs to keep us safe. As of writing, since I have served in Congress, the State of Alabama has lost 60 law enforcement officers – both in the line of duty and off the clock - according to the Officer Down Memorial Page (ODMP). According to the ODMP page which lists all fallen law enforcement by state, in East Alabama since 2003, we lost: Officer Keith Edwin Houts, Lieutenant Dexter Holcomb, Detective Corporal Kenneth Armstrong, Police Officer Kenneth “Greg” Surles, Correctional Officer Elizabeth Franklin, Conservation Officer Nathan Benjamin Mims, Correctional Officer Rodney Kelley, Trooper Ervin Michael Hawk Johnston, II, Police Officer Joshuah Patrick Broadway, Inspector David Howell Jennings, Conservation Officer James Lansford “Lance” Horner, Jr., Deputy Sheriff James W. Anderson, Police Officer Justin David Sollohub, Sergeant Daniel Verle Davis, Investigator Jeffrey Hugh Bryant, Police Officer David Lee Colley, Correctional Officer Kenneth Levella Bettis and Lieutenant Richard Glenn Woods. Our hearts go out to the families across Alabama who have lost their loved ones. We will never forget those who have paid the ultimate sacrifice and have served their communities. I salute our local law enforcement today and every day. Thank you for all you do. I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and you can also subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
05.15.2017	The House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, chaired by Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), will hold a hearing on Friday, May 19, 2017 at 9:00 a.m. in 2118 Rayburn House Office Building on “FY2018 Priorities and Posture of the National Security Space Enterprise.” Chairman Rogers said: “We have a growing crisis to confront in outer space, especially because of our reliance on space for national security. Our military leaders have been clear in their warnings, some going back many years, that our use of space may be taken away from us in the next military conflict. “We should have realized this 10 years ago, when China destroyed one of its satellites in a successful test of an anti-satellite weapon. Unfortunately we have very little to show for our efforts to counter this threat over the past 10 years. We must now prioritize the national security space domain, and move with conviction and urgency to address this issue. “We are hobbled by a hyper-fragmented organization of national security space and we have a national security space acquisition system that is constrained by a galaxy’s worth of red tape. Ranking Member Cooper and I will start to fix that this year. “I look forward to hearing from our distinguished panel of leading national security space officials on their perspectives on the priorities and challenges in Fiscal Year 2018.” WHAT: HASC Strategic Forces Subcommittee Hearing: “FY2018 Priorities and Posture of the National Security Space Enterprise” WHEN: Friday, May 19, 2017 at 9:00 a.m. WHERE: 2118 Rayburn House Office Building -###-
05.04.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the American Health Care Act (AHCA) passed the House of Representatives. “With President Trump’s strong support, the House of Representatives is keeping its promise to the American people to repeal and replace Obamacare,” Rogers said. “Since its implementation, the effects of Obamacare on Alabamians have been devastating. Folks across East Alabama have seen their premiums and deductibles skyrocket over the past seven years or worse have lost their insurance altogether. Obamacare created an unworkable regulatory environment for doctors and hospitals, and small businesses were crippled by increased regulations and taxes. It’s very simple to understand – Obamacare didn’t work, and it wasn’t going to get better. As promised, we repealed and replaced this flawed piece of legislation,” Rogers said. Rogers added, “This bill begins the process to put families in charge of their health care. And as important, it ensures that people with pre-existing conditions cannot be denied coverage. Make no mistake, these Obama-era regulations and taxes will take more time to undo. The AHCA will increase choices for consumers and allow the free market to take hold of the insurance market. I am proud to have supported this measure and the Trump Administration has my full support as it works to implement it.” - ### -
05.03.2017	Most folks know that small businesses are the backbone of our local economies. These small businesses provide good-paying jobs for families across East Alabama. The week of April 30-May 6 is recognized as Small Business Week where Congress takes time to take a look at the small businesses across the United States and the role they play in our economy and lives. Did you know there are 29 million small businesses across the United States? In Alabama, according to the United States Small Business Administration (SBA), we are home to over 380,000 small businesses that make up 99.4 percent of Alabama businesses. These small businesses provide over 700,000 jobs across our state. That is 48 percent of Alabama employees – so almost half of our state is employed by a small business. Before President Trump was in office, I regularly heard from our small business owners that unnecessary government red tape and regulations were hurting their bottom line and forcing them to cut down on employees. Now, with a strong advocate in the White House, Congress can move from defense to offense in working to help make the lives of these job creators better. For example, in January, I voted for H.R. 5, the Regulatory Accountability Act of 2017, which included a provision that would focus on how regulations impact our small businesses and ways to reduce burdensome rules. This bill and our use of the Congressional Review Act are just common-sense solutions to undo some of the hardships that our small business owners dealt with. I will continue to work with President Trump on supporting actions that help build up our small businesses and makes them stronger. I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and you can also subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
05.01.2017	Artistic high school students from the Third District were honored last weekend in Sylacauga, as Congressman Mike Rogers announced the winners of the 2017 Third District Congressional Art Competition. Alex Howard, a junior at Opelika High School, took First Place for her artwork in pencil titled “MOM.” Howard came in first place this year out of over 28 contestants. Howard’s artwork will be displayed for one year in the walkway leading to the U.S. Capitol. All artwork submitted for the contest was on view at the Comer Museum in Sylacauga. - ### -
04.06.2017	Great nations throughout history are those that control their own sovereignty. Sovereignty can be defined in different ways, but starts with the freedom to act in the nation’s best interest and controlling who crosses their borders. President Trump has made putting America first a priority for his Administration. I fully support him in this effort and am working hard in Congress to make it a reality. President Trump promised to build a wall on our southern border. I recently introduced legislation that will help make the wall a reality without any additional costs to America’s taxpayer. Each year the countries south of our border benefit from an estimated $50 billion windfall from the U.S. in the form of remittances. In 2015, Mexico received over $24 billion in remittances sent from the United States. My bill, H.R. 1813, the Border Wall Funding Act of 2017, would impose a fee on remittance transactions to South and Central America. The fee revenue would go to an account dedicated to building the wall. The legislation is endorsed by FAIR (Federation for American Immigration Reform) and NumbersUSA. It is time to finally have some real action on securing our borders. I have also introduced the American Sovereignty Restoration Act of 2017, which would end the United States’ involvement in the United Nations (UN). The American taxpayer should not have to bankroll an organization that tries to infringe on our Constitutional rights and supports terrorists over our great ally Israel. The United States does not need the permission of the UN to defend our values and freedoms. I believe we should put America first and get out of the UN. I stand with President Trump on these issues and will continue to push these bills forward. I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and you can also subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
03.30.2017	Today, Congressman Mike Rogers introduced HR 1813, the Border Wall Funding Act of 2017. This bill, which is supported and endorsed by FAIR, the Federation for American Immigration Reform, would impose a 2% fee on all remittances headed south of the US border. Remittances, or wire transfers, are commonly used by illegal immigrants to move money from the US to their home countries. In 2014, Mexico alone received over $24 billion in remittances sent from the US, while other South and Central American countries received over 15% of their GDPs in the form of remittances. “President Trump has made it very clear that he intends to complete a wall along our Southern border. As a senior member of the Homeland Security committee, I have long supported the border wall, which will protect Americans.” Rogers said. “In order to jumpstart the funding of the wall, I have introduced a bill to impose a 2% fee on remittances sent south of the border. This bill is simple – anyone who sends their money to countries that benefit from our porous borders and illegal immigration should be responsible for providing some of the funds needed to complete the wall. This bill keeps money in the American economy, and most importantly, it creates a funding stream to build the wall,” Rogers said. - ### -
03.24.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the vote on the American Health Care Act (AHCA,) was postponed in the House of Representatives. “I continue to proudly stand with President Trump and fully support his efforts to deliver on the simple promise we made to the American people – to repeal Obamacare. I also applaud Speaker Ryan for his incredible leadership in trying to repeal Obamacare and for crafting a bill that would bring real relief, more choice, and higher quality of care.” Rogers said. “This vote was very simple to understand – Obamacare does not work, and it will never get better. The choice was clear – support President Trump and this bill to repeal and replace the disastrous law or support keeping Obamacare,” Rogers said. “Americans are sick and tired of the dysfunction in Washington when far right-wing factions put their narrow interests above the will of the people that elected them,” Rogers continued. - ### -
03.08.2017	As Alabama’s only member on the House Agriculture Committee, I take my role in protecting our farmer’s best interests very seriously. Alabama’s agricultural industry has quite a large impact on our state economy. Agriculture provides over 580,000 jobs in the state of Alabama, and agriculture and related industries bring in over $70 billion dollars to our great state. Just this week, I had the honor of hosting folks from the Alabama Farmers Federation (ALFA) here in Washington, DC. It’s always good to hear from farmers what programs are working for them and what issues are most important to them. With the new Trump administration, farmers feel more promise than ever that the government is working on their behalf rather than against them. Under President Obama, farmers were under assault from overregulation from the EPA and USDA. President Trump has already kept his promise to cut unnecessary government red tape by signing his disapproval of the Waters of the United States rule. This rule was one of the worst examples of bureaucratic overreach by Obama’s EPA. One issue on the front of the minds of everyone in the Agriculture Committee and farmers alike is the upcoming Farm Bill. The Farm Bill authorizes into law all farm programs for five years, and the current one expires in 2018. The House Agriculture Committee has started hearing from the agriculture industry about what programs in the Farm Bill work for them, and most importantly, what programs do not work for them. As these hearings continue, I remain dedicated to protecting and providing for East Alabama’s farmers. Everyone’s lives are impacted by America’s farmers, and it’s important we provide farmers with the tools they need to remain strong and successful.
02.28.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after President Trump made his first address to a Joint Session of Congress. “I was thrilled to hear President Trump lay out his optimistic vision for America’s future. We now have a president that is determined to work on the behalf of the American people first,” Rogers said. “President Trump’s dedication to enforcing our country’s immigration laws is critical to our safety and economy. For far too long, the executive branch has turned a blind eye to folks who are here in the country illegally and therefore, breaking the law. With Attorney General Sessions, the laws on the books will be enforced and the safety of our communities will be the highest priority,” Rogers said. Rogers added, “I am extremely grateful for President Trump’s pledge to increase investment in our national defense. To fully rebuild our military from the neglect of the Obama administration will require an extraordinary commitment. We must invest the amount of funding necessary to make our military the greatest force on Earth. This massive investment is a national priority and must be viewed as a unique effort outside of the annual grind of the appropriations process. Providing for our national defense is a constitutional requirement. Unfortunately, initial reports of the 2018 defense budget numbers from the Office of Management and Budget will not ensure military readiness. But as a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I look forward to working closely with Secretary Mattis to increase the budget commitment to our national defense, and help achieve President Trump’s goal of making our military great again.” - ### -
02.08.2017	Most folks across East Alabama watched with excitement on January 25th as President Donald Trump signed an executive order to strengthen our country’s immigration laws. I, too, applauded our new president’s action to take seriously our nation’s immigration crisis. As a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee, I have long been an advocate for protecting American taxpayers from the enormous costs of illegal immigration. President Trump’s action stated his intent to build a wall along our southern border. The Secure Fence Act of 2006 authorized the building of a fence along our southern border. I am proud to say that I was a cosponsor of that legislation then, and I remain a strong supporter of that law now. Though President Obama ignored this public law, we in the Congress will work with our new president to build the wall once and for all. Recently, in a House Homeland Security Committee hearing I was able to speak with Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kelly about our shared efforts. I believe border wall construction is a time-sensitive issue and should start as soon as possible. In order to jumpstart construction of the wall, I will sponsor a bill, the Border Security Funding Act of 2017, which will require illegal workers to pay a fee on money they send away to their home countries. This bill will also strengthen penalties for any country benefitting from illegal immigrant work in America. Thankfully, with Jeff Sessions becoming our Attorney General, we will finally have a strong supporter of the rule of law at the DOJ. By building a border wall and enforcing the laws on the books, American can start to reclaim its sovereignty. I am looking forward to working closely with the Trump administration to curb America’s illegal immigration problem. I want to hear from you. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov.
01.30.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after President Trump signed an executive order temporarily pausing immigration admissions from seven countries that have been designated as areas of terror concern. “I strongly support President Trump’s executive order that puts the security of American citizens first. Make no mistake –Americans’ safety is at stake if we continue to allow people in from countries with known terror activity. Specifically regarding refugee admissions, I have questioned the FBI Director and Department of Homeland Security officials, and they admit there is a crisis of confidence in the vetting process. Until there is a new and effective refugee vetting process in place, this executive order is necessary.” Rogers serves as a senior member of the House of Representatives Homeland Security Committee. - ### -
01.26.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after reports that President Trump plans to issue an Executive Order to reduce voluntary U.S. support for the United Nations by 40 percent. “I applaud President Trump as he starts to address our role in the United Nations. I strongly believe that the U.N. is a wasteful bureaucracy that actively works against American values and does not deserve to be subsidized by the U.S. taxpayer. This proposed funding cut is a great first step. I look forward to working closely with the Trump administration on this important issue” Rogers’ first act in the 115th Congress was to reintroduce his bill, the American Sovereignty Restoration Act of 2017, which would end the United States’ involvement in the United Nations. “The U.S. bankrolls nearly 22 percent of the U.N.'s annual budget. Still, the U.N. continues to promote many ideals that attack American sovereignty. Most recently, the UN Security Council sided with Palestine and passed a resolution condemning Israel’s settlements in Jerusalem. Attacks against one of the United States’ greatest allies are just the most recent chapter in the UN’s dangerous agenda. Other alarming U.N. initiatives have included The Law of the Sea Treaty, The U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change’s recent move to re-establish an international regulation regime to end global warming, which would heavily target fossil fuels, and the potential Arms Trade Treaty, which would threaten our Second Amendment rights.” - ### -
01.25.2017	On January 20th, along with millions of Americans, I was honored to watch President Donald J. Trump take his oath of office. Even before that, starting on November 8th, a wave of hope and promise swept over the nation. With the new Trump administration, Congress now has the unique opportunity to pass into law meaningful legislation that will positively impact American lives. There is much to do to roll back the onerous big government policies of the last eight years. Our priorities will be repealing and replacing Obamacare, restoring Constitutional balance, securing our borders, creating jobs, and rebuilding our military. The unaffordable and unworkable legislation known as Obamacare must be repealed and replaced. Folks across East Alabama have told me time and time again how hurtful this law has been to them. Replacement legislation will provide much-needed relief for the working families and small businesses. Under President Obama, our Second Amendment rights were constantly under siege. Now our Second Amendment rights will be safe and protected, just as the Constitution outlines. Finally, as a senior member of the Homeland Security Committee, I will work to insure President Trump’s border wall is built along our southern border. I have long fought for this wall to be built to protect our country’s taxpayers’ jobs. We have a real opportunity to have the wall completed during this administration. The time is now to rebuild our military. President Obama whittled away at our national defense and allowed America’s prestige in the world to decline. With the appointment of General Mattis as Secretary of Defense, we are well on our way. These are just a few of the issues we plan to get to work on in the 115th Congress. I’m looking forward to it more than ever.
01.20.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the official swearing-in of President Donald J. Trump. “I was excited to attend the 58th Presidential Inauguration. President Trump’s inauguration was a truly historic event. With President Trump in office, the Congress has a unique opportunity to cut spending, repeal Obamacare, protect the rights of the unborn, and rebuild our military. The Inauguration was made especially great by the presence of Talladega’s own Talladega College Great Tornado band in the parade. I am looking forward to the president’s cabinet, including Alabama’s own Senator Sessions, being confirmed so we can get to work making America great again.”
01.11.2017	As most folks in East Alabama know, January 22nd will mark the 44th Anniversary of the Roe v. Wade decision by the Supreme Court. This anniversary marks a dark day in our country’s history, and I salute all of the folks back home who travel to Washington to march in honor and remembrance of the lives lost to abortion. You may remember the news of videos surfacing of Planned Parenthood officials discussing abortion procedures used to obtain body parts of unborn babies for research in exchange for profits. Those videos are as criminal and sickening. As a Christian and a father of three beautiful children, I understand how precious the gift of life is. I have always and will always continue to make it my mission to be a voice for the unborn. Last year, President Obama demonstrated how out of touch he was with East Alabama and all of America when he vetoed legislation that would have defunded Planned Parenthood. Fortunately, we can now look forward to working with the incoming Trump administration that also shares our East Alabama values and respect for the unborn. Nowhere will that be more important than choosing the next Supreme Court justice. And with a Republican-controlled Congress, we can get back to passing laws that are in line with the American people's wishes. This year, pro-life advocates in the 115th Congress have already introduced bills to help protect these rights - all of which I strongly support. The bills include the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2017, and the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act, and I am proud to say I will be a cosponsor of each one. I will never stop fighting for the rights of the most innocent in our society – unborn children.
01.10.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after Senator Jeff Sessions’ first day of confirmation hearings as President-elect Donald J. Trump’s nominee for Attorney General. “Today, the country saw what we in Alabama have known for many years - Jeff Sessions is a man of great character. Jeff’s steady and honest performance in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee is exactly what I’d expect from him. His knowledge of the law is unmatched. He respects the rule of law, and as Attorney General he will bring integrity to the Department of Justice. I am proud to call Jeff a colleague and friend.”
01.03.2017	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the official swearing-in of the 115th Congress. “I am excited to work with my colleagues in the House of Representatives in the new 115th Congress. With President-elect Donald J. Trump coming into office later this month, we have the exciting opportunity to shape an agenda that repeals Obamacare, cuts regulations, provides real tax relief for hard working families, and protects the rights of the unborn.” Rogers said. Rogers’ first act in the 115th Congress was to reintroduce his bill, the American Sovereignty Restoration Act of 2017, which would end the United States’ involvement in the United Nations. “The U.N. has attempted a number of actions which aimed to encroach on the rights granted to U.S. citizens under our Constitution. Most recently, the UN Security Council sided with Palestine and passed a resolution condemning Israel’s settlements in Jerusalem. Attacks against one of the United States’ greatest allies are just the most recent chapter in the UN’s dangerous agenda. I believe our involvement in the UN is a waste of taxpayer dollars,” Rogers said.
12.13.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers announced today that his Washington, D.C. office has moved to a new location and is now open at: 2184 Rayburn House Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20515. “I have always said my door is open to the people of the Third Congressional District,” Rogers said. “I am excited about our new location in Washington and hope local citizens will continue to come by and visit when they are in our nation’s capital.” - ### -
12.02.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers reminds any graduating high school seniors for 2017 interested in receiving a Congressional nomination to attend one of the U.S. Service Academies to complete an application, which is available at http://mikerogers.house.gov/constituent-services/academy-nominations, and mail it to one of his district offices soon. To be considered for a nomination for appointment to any of the service academies, including the U.S. Military Academy, the Naval Academy, the Air Force Academy and the Merchant Marines Academy, seniors must complete Rogers’ application material and mail the completed packets to one of Rogers’ district offices. The applications can be sent to: Congressman Mike Rogers Attn: Service Academy Application 1129 Noble Street, Suite 104 Anniston, Alabama 36207 or Congressman Mike Rogers Attn: Service Academy Application 701 Avenue A, Suite 300 Opelika, Alabama 36801 The deadline for receipt of these applications is December 15, 2016. Please visit www.mikerogers.house.gov/constituent-services/academy-nominations with any questions, or call Rogers’ Washington, D.C. office at 202.225.3261. -###-
12.02.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of Fiscal Year 2017 passed the House of Representatives. “I am pleased the NDAA passed the House today with my strong support. This is a critical piece of legislation that helps take care of our brave men and women in uniform. This bill will strengthen our military, provide for vital installations like the Anniston Army Depot and authorize the funding needed to keep America safe. It will also give our service members the pay raise they deserve that they have not gotten in the past four years,” Rogers said. Rogers served as a Conferee for the NDAA, is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) and Chairman of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee. - ### -
12.01.2016	The Christmas season has begun and folks across the Third District are giving of themselves and their time for their fellow Alabamians. Each year around the holidays, I like to take the opportunity to highlight a few of the great works going on across our area. The following examples are just a sampling of people giving of their time and gifts this year. On December 10th in Clay County, the Inter Se Club of Lineville and Modern Culture Club of Ashland will host the annual Soup Luncheon for DHR to raise money for local children in need. In Randolph County, the Pilot Club and the Roanoke Police Department both participated in Toys for Tots. In April, Piedmont High School seniors in Calhoun County participated in a community service day called “Seniors Helping Seniors.” They spent the day helping with yard work, household tasks and minor repairs of homes belonging to the elderly in the community. In Tallapoosa County, members of Volunteer Connections of Central Alabama worked weekly throughout the year at the Alexander City Recycling Center, donating every dollar earned from the recyclables to local nonprofit organizations. The physically demanding work created the need for a hydraulic lift, which two Alexander City Councilmen purchased for the recycling center as a thank you to the volunteers for their dedication to the community. In Macon County, the Tuskegee Housing Authority and Macon County Ministerial Alliance both hosted a food bank. In Chambers County, the Christian Service Center held a food bank and a drive for clothing and toys. These are just a few of many generous acts happening right now across East Alabama. The spirit of giving is definitely alive in our great state. As always, my office and staff are here to serve you. Please contact my office with any concerns or thoughts you may have or take advantage of my Mobile Office Hours in your county each month. For more information visit my website at www.mikerogers.house.gov. You can also sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting my website. To stay up to date on social media, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com, on Medium at RepMikeRogersAL03 and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
11.30.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after being elected to the Republican Steering Committee this week by his colleagues. The Steering Committee recommends Members of Congress to serve as Full Committee Chairmen based on their background, level of expertise and seniority as well as each Member’s committee assignments. This is Rogers’ second term on the Steering Committee. He is the first Alabamian to serve on the prestigious committee in over a decade. “I am honored to have been elected to this committee again. As the Steering Committee representative for the Alabama and Tennessee delegations, I look forward to advocating on their behalf before the House Republican Conference. And as one of the representatives of Southern states, I look forward to working on bringing regional balance to chairs and committee assignments,” Rogers said. Rogers was selected as the Region V representative. Region V encompasses Alabama and Tennessee. The appointment is for the upcoming 115th Congress. - ### -
11.18.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after President-elect Trump announced Senator Jeff Sessions as his choice for U.S. Attorney General. “Jeff Sessions is a man of the greatest integrity and character. He will do an outstanding job as the Attorney General of the United States. He has served Alabama with the utmost distinction, boundless vigor and endless determination. He will bring those same qualities and more to the Department of Justice to enforce the law. “Alabama has every right to be extremely proud. I also want to congratulate President-elect Trump on this exceptional choice.” -###-
11.17.2016	After enduring what seemed to be a never-ending election season, I am hopeful for what is in store for America as President-elect Donald Trump gets ready to take office and Republicans will be in the majority in both chambers of Congress for next year. We can also rest assured that a conservative voice will soon be appointed to the Supreme Court to replace the late Justice Antonin Scalia. The people of East Alabama and across the United States made sure their message be heard loud and clear on the direction they want our country to be headed. As the current Congress comes to a close and we get ready to start the 115th Congress in January, much work will need to be done. Now it is up to Congress to get busy. I believe repealing and replacing Obamacare will be one of the first items on the agenda as Congress works to find quality and affordable healthcare options that will help hardworking families instead of hurting them. Strengthening our national defense and making sure our country remains a superpower will also be on the table. On the homeland security front, securing our border will remain at the forefront of our priorities as we deal with our illegal immigration situation. During this Thanksgiving season, I hope all of us across East Alabama will take time out of our busy lives to reflect on how fortunate we are to live in the United States and pray for the future of our great country and our new leaders as we move forward. As always, my office and staff are here to serve you. Please contact my office with any concerns or thoughts you may have or take advantage of my Mobile Office Hours in your county each month. For more information visit my website at www.mikerogers.house.gov. You can also sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting my website. To stay up to date on social media, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com, on Medium at RepMikeRogersAL03 and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
09.28.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement after he voted in support of the veto message to accompany S. 2040, “Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act” (JASTA). “Today I am proud to have voted to override President Obama’s veto of JASTA. This bill is narrowly drafted to apply only to foreign governments that support terrorist acts within the United States. Most importantly, this bill is about justice for the brave families who lost loved ones during the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. Fifteen years is too long to wait for justice and it is shocking President Obama would put the government of Saudi Arabia ahead of American families still hurting here at home.” -###-
09.23.2016	The House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, chaired by Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), will hold a hearing on Tuesday, September 27, 2016 at 3:30 p.m. in 2118 Rayburn House Office Building on “National Security Space: 21st Century Challenges, 20th Century Organization.” Chairman Rogers said: “Recently, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) released a new assessment on the state of DOD national security space acquisition management. The GAO detailed the 60 different stakeholders who are involved in decision making about space programs. No system can function well when so many actors have the ability to say ‘no’ and no one is truly accountable for doing so. As we see serious foreign space threats increasing and a pattern of significantly delayed and over budget national security space programs, we cannot permit this status quo to continue. “Modern warfare is moving to new heights and it is all-too-clear that our military is not organized and prepared to fight and win a war in space. This hearing is the first step in what I anticipate will be a major reform effort leading to the FY18 National Defense Authorization Act.” WHAT: HASC Strategic Forces Subcommittee Hearing: “National Security Space: 21st Century Challenges, 20th Century Organization” WHEN: Tuesday, September 27, 2016 at 3:30 p.m. WHERE: 2118 Rayburn House Office Building -###
09.22.2016	These days you cannot turn on your television without hearing about the very dangerous world we live in today. Here in the United States, this past weekend, the Chelsea neighborhood in New York City was rattled by a bomb that sent 29 people to the hospital and undetonated bombs were found by a train stop in New Jersey. A young adult of Afghan descent was arrested for this terrorist act as of writing. He was captured carrying a journal praising Osama bin Laden and fantasizing about Jihad. It is unclear how his travels to Afghanistan and Pakistan went unnoticed by intelligence and law enforcement officials. Across the globe, there is unrest in Syria, a continued situation in Ukraine and Kim Jong-un in North Korea testing both nuclear weapons and his neighbors. As a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee, I attended a Full Committee Hearing this week titled, “Stopping the Next Attack: How to Keep Our City Streets from Becoming the Battleground” and asked state and local law enforcement officers what tools they need to combat the rise of home-grown radical Islamic terrorists. I’m glad that law enforcement officers from across the country had an opportunity to make the case for what they need on the front-lines against terrorism in the United States. And as Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) Strategic Forces subcommittee and a conferee for the 55th consecutive NDAA, we’ve been working through differences in the House and Senate-passed versions over the past few weeks. It has become abundantly clear that now more than ever we must ensure our men and women in uniform have all of the tools needed to combat the variety of threats we as a country face from the brutal, but sophisticated ISIS to the next generation threats of China and Russia. Our warfighters must be focused on these fights, not the budget fights in Washington. As a member of the conference committee I’m doing everything I can to make sure they have those resources. I will always put the needs of our brave service members first. I want to hear from you on this or any issue. To take advantage of my Mobile Office Hours in your county each month, visit my website at www.mikerogers.house.gov for details. You can also sign up for my e-Newsletter on my website. To stay up to date, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com, on Medium at RepMikeRogersAL03 and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
09.09.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today in advance of the 15th anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks and the fourth anniversary of the deadly attack on Americans in Benghazi, Libya. “This year marks the 15th anniversary of the September 11th attacks on our country and the fourth anniversary of the attack in Benghazi. I still remember exactly where I was and what I was doing when I first got the news in 2001. Across East Alabama, we will never forget the lives of those innocent Americans that were lost and the countless acts of bravery. And we will continue to pray for those families who lost loved ones and still struggle with those losses today from both tragic events. “May God continue to bless the United States of America.” -###-
09.09.2016	Recently, I had the chance to make my way across East Alabama during the District Work Period. I always enjoy taking a break from Washington to visit with folks and spend time back in our great state. During this work period, I had the opportunity to tour several facilities in the Third District including DaVita Dialysis in Opelika and General Electric in Auburn. These companies are both great examples of growing areas of the economy: health care and aviation. I also was pleased to tour the new Weaver Community Center and visit with some seniors in their new senior center. This community center important to maintaining community ties in the small, but vital towns in our area. I held a meeting of my Third Congressional District Veterans Advisory Committee to hear what was on the minds of our Veterans and we got to learn about the Veterans Upward Bound Program that aids Veterans in their pursuit of higher education. Anniston Middle School allowed me speak to their students and present a flag to the school. While in Calhoun County, I also toured the impressive Oxford Career Technical Center at Oxford High School. It was great to see students get the chance to train in these technical fields. Farmers from across East Alabama gathered to discuss what agriculture issues were on the forefront for our state which is always helpful for me to hear firsthand. At Auburn University, I toured the Auburn Canine Breeding Facility and enjoyed seeing the great things Auburn is doing with that program. I had the distinct honor of attending the Anniston Army Depot’s 75th Anniversary celebration and presented a Congressional Record statement recognizing this exciting time for that important facility. Besides these scheduled events, I attended my church, went to the grocery store and held meetings in the Anniston District Office. Just being out and about gave me the chance to hear from many of you. For those of you I didn’t get to see or talk to, please contact me office with any concerns or thoughts you may have or take advantage of my Mobile Office Hours in your county each month. More information visit my website at www.mikerogers.house.gov. You can also sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting my website. To stay up to date, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com, on Medium at RepMikeRogersAL03 and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
09.06.2016	The House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, chaired by Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), will hold a hearing on Wednesday, September 07, 2016 at 3:30 p.m. in 2118 Rayburn House Office Building on “Deferred Maintenance in the Nuclear Security Enterprise: Safety and Mission Risks.” Chairman Rogers said: “Our nuclear weapons complex is the foundation upon which the U.S. nuclear deterrent is built. Unfortunately, that foundation is cracking—many of the buildings and facilities that comprise this critical national security enterprise are quite literally falling apart. With a $3.7 billion backlog in deferred maintenance and 30 percent of its facilities more than 60 years old, we need to do better. This hearing will highlight these problems and discuss both near- and long-term solutions that can get this infrastructure back to a state of readiness and responsiveness. The dedicated workers in our nuclear enterprise deserve it—and the credibility of our nuclear deterrent demands it.” WHAT: HASC Strategic Forces Subcommittee Hearing: “Deferred Maintenance in the Nuclear Security Enterprise: Safety and Mission Risks” WHEN: Wednesday, September 07, 2016 at 3:30 p.m. WHERE: 2118 Rayburn House Office Building -###-
07.13.2016	The Federal Bureau of Investigation’s (FBI) decision not to recommend prosecution of Secretary Clinton over her mishandling of classified information raises more questions than it answers. FBI Director James Comey said that Secretary Clinton displayed “extreme carelessness” in the handling of classified information with her use of an unauthorized private email server. Yet he determined she did not show “gross negligence” that would have required prosecution. That just doesn’t pass the smell test. And I believe most of you across East Alabama share my outrage and demand to simply know why. It is hard not to think there aren’t different standards for justice at work here. My colleagues in the House of Representatives also share that outrage because just this week, I joined 200 other Members of Congress and signed on to a letter to Director Comey. The letter demands answers on the FBI’s decision to let Secretary Clinton off scot-free and includes additional questioning to help explain how the FBI could even come to a decision that does not hold Clinton accountable. The letter states, “Secretary Clinton clearly placed our nation’s secrets in peril and your decision not to refer the case for prosecution has created a cloud over our nation’s justice system. No one is above the law and the American people deserve a more robust explanation for your decision to not recommend criminal charges against the former Secretary.” I truly believe Hillary Clinton broke the law and showed complete disregard for America’s national security. I expect everyone to be treated equally under the law. It is clear Secretary Clinton was being held to a different standard. I think most folks would agree that this is unacceptable. I will continue to fight for answers and accountability in this situation. I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com, on Medium at RepMikeRogersAL03 and can subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
07.08.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the tragic events last night in Dallas, Texas. “What happened last night in Dallas was senseless and devastating for our country. My thoughts and prayers are with the people of Dallas and all of the families who were affected by this tragedy,” Rogers said. - ### -
07.08.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), the Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, made the following statement on the joint decision by the Republic of Korea and the United States to deploy Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) to Korea. “I am proud of the decision our two countries have made to deploy a U.S. THAAD battery in South Korea. This is a vital move to deter and defend against the reckless conduct of the Kim regime in the North. I believe our alliance should look for additional opportunities to enhance our cooperation to promote regional security and deter regional aggression.” -###-
07.08.2016	The House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, chaired by Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), will hold a hearing on Thursday, July 14, 2016 at 3:30 p.m. in 2118 Rayburn House Office Building on the “President Obama’s Nuclear Deterrent Modernization Plans and Budgets: The Military.” Chairman Rogers said: “Over the course of this Administration, President Obama and Congress have forged a broad, bipartisan consensus on the direction of U.S. nuclear deterrence policy and posture—and that nuclear deterrence is the military’s “highest priority mission.” The Administration’s policies, based on military advice, have been remarkably consistent from the 2010 Nuclear Posture Review, the President’s commitments during the New START treaty ratification, the 2013 nuclear employment guidance review, and six years of budget requests, and have formed the basis of a remarkable and unexpected consensus. If anything, recent events with Russia and China, and their increasing belligerence and military capability development, have shown that our nuclear forces are more relevant in this less stable world. “With the small, but vocal nuclear disarmament echo chamber encouraging the President to renege on these commitments and upend this consensus, we will hear from senior military officers and Obama Administration officials regarding the military requirements and threat environment driving this nuclear modernization plan.” WHAT: HASC Strategic Forces Subcommittee Hearing: “President Obama’s Nuclear Deterrent Modernization Plans and Budgets: The Military” WHEN: Thursday, July 14, 2016 at 3:30 p.m. WHERE: 2118 Rayburn House Office Building -###-
06.28.2016	The House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee Chairman Mike Rogers (R-AL) made the following statement today after the United States, Japan and South Korea engaged in their first joint ballistic missile defense exercise in Hawaii. "These drills are an important demonstration of the strength of America's bilateral alliances with the Republic of Korea and with Japan. They are also a prelude to the possibility of what our three countries could do together, through step-by-step integration, to create a powerful defensive shield to counter North Korea's provocations and a deterrent against others who may threaten our peoples," Chairman Rogers said. -###-
06.23.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the Democrats’ disruptive sit-in publicity stunt. “President Obama’s plan to defeat ISIS and protect our homeland has been a failure. This has been demonstrated by the recent terrorist attacks in Orlando and San Bernardino. President Obama ignores his failures by threatening our Second Amendment rights. He can’t even say the words “radical Islam," but he never hesitates to attack the rights of law abiding, taxpaying citizens who own guns. It time for President Obama and Nancy Pelosi to stop the made-for-TV stunts and get serious about fighting Islamic terrorism,” Rogers said. - ### -
06.23.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the Supreme Court ruling in United States v. Texas. “Today’s decision to halt President Obama’s executive amnesty is an important victory for the rule of law and Constitutional government. I was proud to sign on to amicus briefs throughout this case and to give the House an official voice in the Supreme Court by voting for H. Res. 639 in March. I firmly believe the President’s unilateral act to grant legal status to millions of illegal immigrants clearly undermines the power of Congress and the Constitution’s system of checks and balances. Congress must move forward with legislation to secure our borders and create real consequences for people who openly flaunt our immigration laws,” Rogers said. - ### -
06.15.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after H.R. 5053, the preventing IRS Abuse and Protecting Free Speech Act, passed the House of Representatives this week, with his strong support. This legislation would prevent the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) from collecting donor lists, including names and addresses from many non-profit organizations. The IRS has used donor information to target conservative non-profit groups for abusive audits and investigations. The IRS will still be able to enforce tax laws without targeting taxpayers or organizations based on their political views. “This legislation is a common sense approach in preventing the IRS from targeting non-profit groups based on their beliefs and I was pleased to support it,” Rogers said. -#-#-#-
06.15.2016	As most folks across East Alabama know, the Agricultural industry is a money maker and job creator in our state. The Agriculture industry boasts over 500,000 jobs and brings in more than $70 billion total a year to Alabama. Because of this, I know firsthand how important agriculture is to all of us. As a senior member on the House Agriculture Committee, I make it a priority each year to hear back from folks across the state so I can best represent them in Congress. Since I was first elected, I have held meetings with the Third Congressional District Agriculture Advisory Committee which is made up of farmers and producers from each of the thirteen counties that make up the district. When I am in Washington, I meet regularly with agriculture groups from Alabama about issues important to them. Just in the past few months, I have met with Golden Flake Snack Foods and George Atwood, an egg producer from Alexandria, Alabama, about GMO labeling standards. I met with representatives from the Southern Crop Production Association on issues important to their organization. I also met with Alabama Cattlemen’s Association regarding the overreaching EPA and trade issues important to them as well as the American Association of Crop Insurers about President Obama’s dangerous proposed cuts to Crop Insurance in his budget. In May, I attended an Agriculture Full Committee Hearing titled, “Past, Present and Future of SNAP: The Retailer Perspective.” Opelika’s own Jimmy Wright, owner of Wright’s Market, testified at that hearing. This year I supported H.Res. 591 which commends cooperative owners and employees of the Farm Credit System, which was signed into law through the Farm Loan Act of 1916, for their continued service in meeting the credit and financial services needs of rural communities and agriculture. Today, the Farm Credit System plays a vital role in the success of rural communities in all 50 states and provides over $237 billion in loans to more than 500,000 customers. I also signed onto to letters which are important to our state’s agriculture industry. One was a letter to House Leadership opposing a Senate Resolution of disapproval of the Catfish Rule. The catfish inspection rule provides important oversight for American consumers when they buy catfish. It guarantees they are buying American-raised, properly inspected catfish. Another was sent to the Secretary of the USDA, Tom Vilsack, to express concern regarding the Food and Nutrition Service’s (FNS) recently proposed rule to modify retailer eligibility requirements in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). These are just a few examples of what is going on in Washington when it comes to Alabama’s Agriculture industry. I will continue to fight for our hard-working farmers and all individuals in that industry. I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com, on Medium at RepMikeRogersAL03 and can subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
06.08.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after H.R. 4775, the Ozone Standards Implementation Act of 2016, passed the House of Representatives today, with his strong support. This legislation would extend the implementation deadlines for the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) costly ozone standards. Studies by the EPA have shown ozone levels have dramatically declined since 1980. “The legislation passed today would delay more EPA regulatory burdens placed on our job creators. This bill also would require EPA Administrator McCarthy to consider feasibility when revising any National Ambient Air Quality Standards, a requirement that will halt out-of-control rule making by the EPA. This bill is a common sense way to fight against the President’s costly environmental agenda and I was pleased to support it,” Rogers said. - ### -
05.25.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the Homeland Security Full Committee hearing titled, “Long Lines, Short Patience: The TSA Airport Screening Experience.” Rogers had the opportunity to press Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Administrator Peter Neffenger on the bloated bureaucracy the TSA has become. “With Memorial Day approaching, one of the busiest travel times of the year, and the recent news reports of the never-ending lines at TSA screening points at airports across the country, it is past time another option is on the table to take the place of the current TSA screeners. “As I told Administrator Neffenger in the hearing today, I will soon be introducing legislation that will allow airports to end the Federal screening work force replacing them with qualified private contractors. This will allow TSA to work directly with its stakeholders on technology and information-sharing while being focused on the real threats to our transportation systems. We have dealt with the ‘Thousands Standing Around’ worker attitude for far too long and we must make the screening process more efficient and customer-focused. My legislation should help make the TSA smarter and leaner,” Rogers said. Rogers is a senior member of the Homeland Security Committee. - ### -
05.19.2016	As you may have seen, the House of Representatives just passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2017. This is the 55th consecutive NDAA, legislation that authorizes funding for the Department of Defense and ensures that Congress fulfills its constitutional duty to make sure that our warfighters have the training and equipment that they need. In addition to setting the priorities for our national defense, this legislation also has language that could be important to folks across East Alabama. For example, an amendment was included that would help installations like the Anniston Army Depot in Calhoun County retain a skilled and knowledgeable workforce. The amendment would make it easier for the Depot to hire temporary and term employees for permanent positions as they became available. This authority will allow the Depot to be as agile and nimble as possible in their support of the Army as they confront the ever changing security threats from ISIS to Russia. Another example of how the legislation could impact East Alabama is by forcing the Secretary of the Army to transfer its surplus vintage firearms to the Civilian Marksmanship Program (CMP). From there the CMP would take these vintage pistols and inspect, grade and prepare them for sale. If this sounds familiar it’s because last year in the same bill we ask that the Army turn over the pistols. Unfortunately, in what has become an all too common occurrence, the Obama Administration has chosen not to follow directives that Congress passes. With the language included in this year’s House bill the Army will have no choice but to turn over the pistols to the CMP. The NDAA also included full funding of the missile defense request of our great allies in Israel for co-development and coproduction of Iron Dome, David’s Sling and Arrow 3. This funding is even more important now with Iran developing its missile technology at an alarming rate as a result of the President’s ill-conceived deal. This legislation will help fund our brave men and women in uniform, keep our country safe from harm and will include these common sense solutions. I am pleased to have worked on this important legislation. I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com, on Medium at RepMikeRogersAL03 and can subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
05.18.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after Obama’s recent announcement on public school transgender bathroom policy. “As a father of three children, I am outraged over Obama’s recent directive on transgender bathroom policy in public schools. This is another example of his illegal executive overreach in an area where he has no legal authority. “I would never want any of my children exposed to the possibility of being forced to change clothes or shower as an adolescent in front of the opposite sex. I cannot believe President Obama could imagine putting his own children through that either. I never want any child to feel unloved or discriminated against, but forcing a blanket policy that is this dangerous to our children is irrational,” Rogers said. - ### -
05.03.2016	Artistic high school students from the Third District were honored last weekend in Sylacauga, as Congressman Mike Rogers announced the winners of the 2016 Third District Congressional Art Competition. Keanu McMurrey, a student at Pell City High School, took First Place for his photograph titled “Natures Drink.” McMurrey came in first place this year out of over 90 contestants. McMurrey’s artwork will be displayed for one year in the walkway leading to the U.S. Capitol. All artwork submitted for the contest was on view at the Comer Museum in Sylacauga. - ### -
04.28.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks after passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2017 out of the House Armed Services Committee (HASC), which included his amendment to force the Army to transfer its surplus vintage firearms to the Civilian Marksmanship Program (CMP). A similar amendment was offered and passed in last year’s NDAA, but the Obama Administration has done nothing but block the military from releasing these vintage firearms to the CMP. This year’s language forces the Secretary of the Army to move forward with this transfer. “I am a proud gun owner and strong supporter of our Second Amendment. I am pleased this common-sense proposal may finally become a reality. It will eliminate the unnecessary costs the Federal government is paying for storage of these 1911s while allowing the very capable CMP to handle the sale of these vintage firearms. This amendment is a win – win for the taxpayer. I was pleased the amendment passed the committee and appreciate the support my colleagues, the CMP and the NRA on this proposal,” Rogers said. Currently, the Army stores excess M1911A1 pistols, which used to be the standard U.S. Armed Forces sidearm, until it was replace by the Berretta 9mm pistol. Besides the 8,300 pistols that have been sold to law enforcement and transferred to foreign countries for a small price, the rest of the M1911A1 pistols are now being held in storage costing the taxpayer around $200,000 a year. Transferring these vintage pistols to the CMP would allow them to inspect, grade, prepare for sale and sell these pistols. The CMP would reimburse the Army for costs associated with the transferring of the pistols. CMP South, headquartered in Anniston, Alabama, oversees sales. CMP North is headquartered in Camp Perry, Ohio. CMP COO Mark Johnson said, “The CMP is most grateful for Congressman Rogers' support of this fine program. We are honored to be entrusted with offering the historic 1911A1s to our affiliated club members. All transfers of the 1911A1s will be handled in accordance with Local, State, and Federal laws so as to ensure legal responsible ownership. CMP thanks Congressman Rogers for his support of safety training, marksmanship activity, and responsible firearm ownership.” The NRA sent a letter of appreciation for Rogers’ efforts. The letter states, “Allowing the U.S. Army to transfer surplus M1911A1 pistols to the CMP for resale would help ensure the CMP’s funding for the future. Thank you for your leadership on this important issue.” The NDAA is expected to come to the House Floor in May. Rogers serves as the Chairman of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee on HASC. - ### -
04.28.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks after passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2017 out of the House Armed Services Committee (HASC), which included his amendment that adds a technical correction to the language included in the Readiness Mark at his request. The amendment was included in an en bloc package during the Readiness section of the Full Committee Mark. “I am pleased to have this important language included in the NDAA that would help installations like the Anniston Army Depot retain a skilled and knowledgeable workforce. The provision would make it easier for the Anniston Army Depot to hire temporary and term employees for permanent positions as they become available. Besides just being a smart use of resources, these hard working folks have the prior expertise that could help the Depot better respond to the pressing needs of our warfighters,” Rogers said. The NDAA is expected to come to the House Floor in May. Rogers serves as the Chairman of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee on HASC. - ### -
04.22.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers joined 144 of his colleagues today and signed a bipartisan letter to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Gina McCarthy regarding the agency misusing Federal funding to pay for a campaign used to attack farmers and ranchers in Washington. This is the second time in months that the EPA has misused Federal funds. “In my opinion, the EPA declared war on farmers and hard working families. The agency seems to hurt the agriculture industry and kill jobs instead of helping protect anything. Their recent campaign attacking our hard-working farmers and ranchers in the state of Washington is just down right appalling. I am disappointed in the EPA and hope they will cooperate with an investigation into the matter,” Rogers said. The letter stated, “While we appreciate EPA’s recent admission that wrongdoing occurred and that the campaign should never have been federally funded, we are still confused why EPA would have approved an award clearly violating a number of federal laws pertaining to funding propaganda, advocacy, and lobbying efforts. We find this revelation particularly disturbing, as it follows closely to both the EPA Office of Inspector General (OIG) questioning of Region 10’s award monitoring and a December 2015 Government Accountability Office (GAO) report that found EPA had committed similar violations on social media advocacy campaigns supporting EPA’s Water of the United State (WOTUS) regulation (also known as the “Clean Water Rule”).” Rogers is a senior member of the House Agriculture Committee. - ### -
04.20.2016	On the heels of Tax Day 2016, the House of Representatives brought several bills to the Floor this week dealing with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). With such a complicated tax code, most folks across East Alabama dread mid-April. The IRS hasn’t helped its credibility in recent years by choosing to target citizens based on their political beliefs while wasting money on conventions and bonuses. This week’s legislation represents just a few of the common-sense improvements we can make to the IRS. H.R. 4903 permanently bars the IRS from using any of its budget to target U.S. citizens for exercising their constitutional rights. It is very revealing about the motives of the Obama Administration that Congress would have to pass such a bill. The IRS Oversight While Eliminating Spending (OWES) Act, H.R. 4885, eliminates fee driven slush funds in the IRS’ budget and makes them subject to Congressional oversight. This change will stop the IRS from using fees on taxpayers to avoid restrictions on their budget. To deal with rogue employees of the IRS were two bills including H.R. 1206, the No Hires for the Delinquent IRS Act and H.R. 3724, the Ensuring Integrity in the IRS Workforce Act. The first piece of legislation prohibits the IRS from hiring new employees until the Treasury Department certifies that no IRS worker has serious tax delinquencies. The second bill prohibits the IRS from rehiring former employees who had been terminated from the IRS for misconduct. The IRS should hold its workers to the same standards it expects from taxpayers. Anyone who has had the misfortune of having to contact the IRS knows firsthand that customer service is not their forte. H.R. 4890, the Ban IRS Bonuses Until Customer Service Strategy is Developed Act, does just what the title says. The bill prohibits bonuses be paid to any IRS employees until the agency develops a comprehensive customer service strategy. I supported all of these bills because Americans deserve better than the bloated bureaucracy the IRS has become and I will continue to support legislation that forces the agency to do a better job. I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com, on Medium at RepMikeRogersAL03 and can subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
04.19.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the Supreme Court oral arguments began this week in United States v. Texas. “Over the past seven years, it has become clear that President Obama has little regard for the word “no.” President Obama’s executive amnesty joins Obamacare, anti-growth environmental rules and other executive overreaches in the Supreme Court. I firmly believe the President’s unilateral act to grant legal status to millions of illegal immigrants clearly undermines the power of Congress and the Constitution’s system of checks and balances. I have signed on to amicus briefs to courts throughout this case and was proud to give the House an official voice in the Supreme Court by voting for H. Res. 639 in March. What President Obama is attempting to do with our broken illegal immigration system goes against our Constitution, and I will continue to fight against it and defend our rights,” Rogers said. - ### -
04.08.2016	The House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, chaired by Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), will hold a hearing on Thursday, April 14, 2016 at 2:00 p.m. in 2118 Rayburn House Office Building on “The Missile Defeat Posture and Strategy of the United States – the FY17 President’s Budget Request.” Chairman Rogers said: “In President Obama’s eighth year in office, our nation’s security is in more jeopardy than any time in recent memory. North Korea, Iran, Pakistan, Russia and China are all advancing their ballistic and cruise missile programs, along with weapons of mass destruction programs, to put our military, our allies and our homeland at risk. North Korea and Iran continue to proliferate related technology and capability as a matter of state policy. And, China’s leadership, which controls the Internet on a whim, is clearly choosing not to stop the proliferation of WMD-sensitive technologies to many of the world’s most dangerous regimes. At the same time, President Obama has cut missile defense practically every year he’s been in office. America’s enemies know an opportunity when they see one; our allies see they are on their own. And the President proposed a nearly 10 percent reduction in missile defense compared to last year’s budget request. What does he think, the Iranians have a Simorgh ICBM on the launch pad because the mullahs want to go to the moon? My subcommittee will continue to fight the President’s priorities and policies until we get some relief next year.” WHAT: HASC Strategic Forces Subcommittee Hearing: “The Missile Defeat Posture and Strategy of the United States – the FY17 President’s Budget Request.” WHEN: Thursday, April 14, 2016 at 2:00 p.m. WHERE: 2118 Rayburn House Office Building -###-
03.23.2016	As both an American and a Christian, I believe in defending freedom - especially when it comes to Israel. It is critical the U.S. stands up for Israel, supporting our greatest ally in the conflicted Middle East. Israel’s national security should be a top concern since we are linked to them culturally, politically and historically. The Obama Administration’s relationship with Israel over the past seven years has been strained close to the breaking point. President Obama has neglected Israel and left them without many of the resources they need. This is evident by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu cancelling his trip to the U.S. earlier this month. Rather than President Obama’s position of apologizing for American values, I believe we should actively stand strong with Israel and protect her interests. Those interests are especially in jeopardy because of Obama’s highly questionable deal with Iran. When talking to folks across East Alabama, the importance of Israel is one issue I consistently hear about for religious, historic and defense-related reasons. I am working hard to make sure that this important issue remains a priority in Washington. As Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee, I have the great honor to directly work with Israel on their defense capabilities. This subcommittee amongst other things oversees the U.S. Missile Defense Agency, which leads our cooperative development efforts, co-production and procurement programs with Israel. For instance, I have worked closely on their Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system. This system serves as one of Israel’s main defenses against hostile rocket and mortar attacks along with several other missile systems. I am also proud to note that Alabama will take part in helping protect Israel as production of Iron Dome parts will take place in our great state. Earlier this week, I was given the opportunity to speak on two panels at the AIPAC Policy Conference—the largest conference for policy minds and Members of Congress to discuss ideas solely focused on improving relations between the United States and Israel. The focus of my remarks at the conference centered on U.S.-Israel missile defense cooperation and that our strong relationship with Israel should never be in question. I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL,on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com, on Medium at RepMikeRogersAL03 and can subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
03.14.2016	The House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, chaired by Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), will hold a hearing on Tuesday, March 15, 2016 at 3:30 p.m. in 2118 Rayburn House Office Building on the “Fiscal Year 2017 Budget Request for National Security Space.” Chairman Rogers said: “We can no longer rely on space to be a peaceful sanctuary. We must be prepared for conflicts that extend into space, and ensure our warfighters have the capabilities they need to fight and win wars in space. We must have the equipment, capability, organization and chain of command in place to assure U.S. command of space. “Additionally, while the Air Force has provided an unprecedented level of reliable assured access to space for national security payloads, it is unfortunately now planning to head down a costly and risky path that would repeat many of the mistakes of the 1990s. Aside from the cost and risk, their plan is against the law. I will not support efforts which jeopardize assured access to space or unwisely risk taxpayer resources.” WHAT: HASC Strategic Forces Subcommittee Hearing: “Fiscal Year 2017 Budget Request for National Security Space” WHEN: Tuesday, March 15, 2016 at 3:30 p.m. WHERE: 2118 Rayburn House Office Building -###-
02.29.2016	The House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, chaired by Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), will hold a hearing on Wednesday, March 2, 2016 at 2:00 p.m. in 2118 Rayburn House Office Building on the “Fiscal Year 2017 Budget Request for Department of Defense Nuclear Forces.” Chairman Rogers said: “Seven years ago, the Obama Administration came in with grand and misguided plans to drastically cut U.S. nuclear forces. And just like the Carter Administration before it, those fantasies have been hit hard by the reality of the dangerous world we live in. Having seen the administration change course significantly, today there is strong, bipartisan agreement that our nuclear forces are the nation’s highest priority defense mission and that they must be fully funded. This hearing will give us an opportunity to ensure that they are.” WHAT: HASC Strategic Forces Subcommittee Hearing: “Fiscal Year 2017 Budget Request for Department of Defense Nuclear Forces” WHEN: Wednesday, March 2, 2016 at 2:00 p.m. WHERE: 2118 Rayburn House Office Building -###-
02.24.2016	When I am back home in Alabama, I make my way around the Third District to hear what concerns folks may have. The things I hear the most about are national security, protecting our Second Amendment rights, standing up for the rights’ of the unborn and shrinking the size of our growing Federal government. Unfortunately Barack Obama’s tenure as president has failed each one of these important issues. When it comes to national security and protecting our homeland, it is no small task. President Obama has failed to develop a coherent national security policy and instead has taken to slashing the defense budget at a dangerous time in our history. Over the last year, between the barbaric actions and attacks by ISIS, Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and North Korea’s rocket launches, the world is a very scary place. As chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee, our national security is one of my top issues. Just this week, I held a committee hearing to look at the current posture of the United States when it comes to missile defenses, national security space systems and capabilities and the nuclear deterrent. When it comes to our national defense, we must always stay vigilant. Just as President Obama has failed to lead on the world stage, he has been overzealous in attacking our Constitutional rights. As an Alabamian and a gun owner myself, I know firsthand how important our Second Amendment right to bear arms is. Just this week, I supported H.R. 2406, the Sportsmen's Heritage and Recreational Enhancement Act of 2015 (SHARE) Act which “revises a variety of existing programs to expand access to, and opportunities for, hunting, fishing, and recreational shooting.” I am a staunch defender of the Second Amendment and will fight against Obama’s liberal gun control proposals. With the end of January marking the 43rd anniversary of the Roe v. Wade decision, protecting the lives of our most innocent has been on my mind a lot. Most folks know I am the father of three children and standing up for the lives of our most innocent is something I will never stop fighting for. And defunding Planned Parenthood remains one of my top priorities. I recently signed on to an amicus brief to the Supreme Court in support of Little Sisters of the Poor as well other organizations challenging the Obama Administration’s contraceptive mandate. Over the last eight years, the power and reach of government has continued to grow. Like Ronald Reagan, I have always believed the smaller the Federal government, the better. In Washington, we have been fighting the EPA on their silly rules like Waters of the United States which gives this oversized agency control over bodies of water including puddles. The EPA is killing jobs and hurting hard working families across East Alabama and America and I will continue the fight against their liberal agenda. I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com, on Medium at RepMikeRogersAL03 and can subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
02.23.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after President Obama announced his intentions to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. “President Obama’s plan to transfer many of the remaining detainees at Gitmo to U.S. soil is nothing more than nonsensical lip service to fulfill a campaign promise. While we are still waiting for a comprehensive strategy to defeat and destroy ISIL, Obama continues to push for 10,000 Syrian refugees to be resettled in the U.S. These examples demonstrate to me that he is not serious about the very real and dangerous threats posed by terrorists to our homeland. I will continue to strongly oppose any plan by Obama to close Gitmo or allow Syrian refugees on our soil,” Rogers said. - # # # -
02.22.2016	The House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, chaired by Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), will hold a hearing on Wednesday, February 24, 2016 at 3:30 p.m. in 2118 Rayburn House Office Building on the “U.S. Strategic Forces Posture.” The hearing will focus on the current policies and posture of the United States with respect to its missile defenses, national security space systems and capabilities and the nuclear deterrent. Chairman Rogers said: “The Strategic Forces Subcommittee oversees some of the most important military capabilities that the United States possesses. This hearing is an important part of Congress’ oversight role to ensure the FY17 National Defense Authorization Act includes the correct policies and the appropriate level of authorized funding to keep the United States and its allies safe in an increasingly dangerous world.” WHAT: HASC Strategic Forces Subcommittee Hearing: “U.S. Strategic Forces Posture” WHEN: Wednesday, February 24, 2016 at 3:30 p.m. WHERE: 2118 Rayburn House Office Building -###-
02.11.2016	As most of you across East Alabama know, I have always been a critic of big government. I think the bigger the Federal government gets, the more it intrudes in the daily lives of Americans. A perfect example of this is the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). I believe the EPA has greatly over stepped its authority. States should be allowed to handle most of their own regulations just like the Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) does for our state. The EPA also consistently oversteps its boundaries with silly rules like Waters of the United States (WOTUS) known as “Clean Water Rule: Definition of ‘Waters of the United State.’” This rule actually gives the EPA control of bodies of water as small as puddles. Yes, it’s just as ridiculous as it sounds. It hurts East Alabama farmers and just doesn’t make sense. In mid-January, I joined my colleagues in the House of Representatives to support and pass S.J. Res. 22, a joint resolution with the Senate to disapprove of this rule. Because of rules like the Clean Water Rule and many other issues, I joined 25 of my colleagues and cosponsored H. Res. 417, a resolution calling on Gina McCarthy, Administrator of the EPA, to step down. This week in the House Agriculture Committee, a hearing was held titled, “To consider the impacts of the EPA’s actions on the rural economy.” This hearing examined the EPA’s excessive regulatory decisions. Our farmers are America’s original conservationists, and they care more about our natural resources than most. However, the EPA continues to impose costly and burdensome regulations on them, forcing many out of business. The EPA’s overreach is unacceptable, and I will continue to push back and fight against their harmful agenda every chance I get. I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com, on Medium at RepMikeRogersAL03 and can subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
02.09.2016	The House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, chaired by Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL) will hold a hearing on Thursday, February 11, 2016 at 2:00 p.m. in 2118 Rayburn House Office Building titled, “Fiscal Year 2017 Budget Request for Atomic Energy Defense Activities.” The hearing will focus on the just-released budget request for defense activities at the Department of Energy’s National Nuclear Security Administration and Office of Environmental Management. Chairman Rogers said: “Nuclear deterrence is the nation’s highest priority defense mission. And while the Department of Defense provides the missiles, bombers and submarines for this mission, it is the Department of Energy that provides the warheads. This relationship is unique within government and the coupling between the departments must be strong. The subcommittee will once again this year take a comprehensive look at the budget request to ensure the Department of Energy’s defense-related programs will meet the military’s requirements for nuclear deterrence. We will strive to ensure these programs are efficient, well-managed and that they deliver for the military.” WHAT: HASC Strategic Forces Subcommittee Hearing: “Fiscal Year 2017 Budget Request for Atomic Energy Defense Activities ” WHEN: Thursday, February 11, 2016 at 2:00 p.m. WHERE: 2118 Rayburn House Office Building -###-
02.07.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers, Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, made the following statement today after learning from news reports that North Korea had launched a long-range rocket. “North Korea's latest apparently successful test of a ballistic missile is disturbing given President Obama's seven years of a slash-and-burn approach to missile defense. “Obama's assumption that if we stop developing missile defense for the homeland, others would stop working to hold us at risk with the world's most dangerous weapons was always foolish. It has now been proven dangerous. “The FY17 NDAA my subcommittee will draft will be an important opportunity to rebuild our missile defenses and to set-up the next Administration to rebuild after eight years of Obama's leading from behind,” Chairman Rogers said. -###-
02.03.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers welcomed Lee Vanoy of Opelika today as the newest member to his staff in Alabama. Vanoy will work in his Opelika district office as a Constituent Service Representative. “I have known Lee for many years and she always has a smile on her face and a positive attitude. Lee has a special energy about her and I am delighted she has chosen to join my staff,” Rogers said. Vanoy lives in Opelika with her husband of 50 years, Jim. She previously worked for the Lee County Board of Registrars’ Office. “I have known Mike for over 15 years and appreciate all he does for the Third District. The transition into the Opelika District office has not only been easy, but has proven to be the best decision for my family and me. I am thankful for this opportunity of service,” Vanoy said. Vanoy began her employment on January 25th. “Everyone in Opelika knows Lee and her dedication to serving others. I know she will be a great addition and will work hard for the folks of East Alabama,” Rogers concluded. -###-
02.03.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers questioned Francis X. Taylor, Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis at the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, today in the House Homeland Security Committee Hearing titled, “Crisis of Confidence: Preventing Terrorist Infiltration Through U.S. Refugee and Visa Programs.” Rogers pressed Taylor on the Syrian refugee crisis reminding him that we are no closer to being able to safely vet these refugees and asking why there is still an insistence on bringing them to the United States. “The stakes are too high. Americans are compassionate people, but the refugees from the Syrian conflict should stay closer to their home countries in refugee camps. In October 2015, I asked FBI Director James Comey if he had the resources to monitor Islamic extremists already in our country. He responded, “The honest answer is ‘I don’t know’ for this reason: If what we experienced in May, June and into the early part of July were to become the new normal, it would really stretch the FBI.” This answer did not give me much confidence. “We cannot risk the safety of American citizens for the refuge of non-Americans. Violent Islamic extremists are actively trying to get into our country to kill Americans. It defies common sense that President Obama is still considering his refugee plan. I will continue to fight to stop any Syrian refugees from entering our country,” Rogers said. - ### -
02.02.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today following the vote on the Veto Override on H.R. 3762. “Obamacare is a burdensome and very flawed law that is hurting hard-working families and small businesses alike, and Planned Parenthood’s abhorrent procedures are an affront to our deeply held values. Both the House and Senate followed the will of the American people and sent a bill to repeal and defund to President Obama’s desk. It is frustrating that President Obama continues to demonstrate his complete disdain for the American people by vetoing this legislation. Instead of listening to what Americans want, he has once again shown his lack of respect for the will of the people,” Rogers said. - ### -
01.29.2016	Rep. Mike Rogers (R-AL), Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee, made the following statement today regarding the successful Ground-based Midcourse Defense (GMD) flight test this week. “Yesterday's test is an important validation of our national missile defense capability and I congratulate Vice Admiral Syring and his team at MDA for their success. “It is fitting that this test occurred as North Korea goes unpunished for its most recent probable nuclear test and as it prepares for a potential ballistic missile test. It is clear that the threat to the homeland is growing. “I continue to be concerned by the Administration's failure to properly resource missile defense. For example, we must begin to make significant progress in developing boost phase missile defense - the Administration's decision to kill these capabilities in 2009 has effectively afforded North Korean ballistic missiles sanctuary for the most vulnerable phases of their flight. That is just not acceptable. We know our enemies will take advantage of any weakness this president shows,” Rogers said. -###-
01.27.2016	As most of you across East Alabama may have seen, January 22nd marked the 43rd Anniversary of the Roe v. Wade decision by the Supreme Court. Still today, this anniversary marks a dark day in our country’s history. Last year most folks remember the news of videos surfacing of Planned Parenthood officials discussing abortion procedures used to obtain body parts of unborn babies for research in exchange for profits. Those videos are as criminal as they are sickening. As a Christian and a father of three beautiful children, I know how precious the gift of life is and I will continue to stand up for the rights of the unborn. Congress recently passed legislation that would defund Planned Parenthood. I am proud to have voted to protect the most innocent in our society – unborn children. This bill also would repeal the very flawed Affordable Care Act also known as Obamacare. Back in Alabama, Obamacare is one of the issues I hear about from folks the most. It is hurting hardworking families and small businesses alike. The repeal legislation went straight to President Obama’s desk, but unfortunately, instead of standing with the wishes of the American people, President Obama vetoed the bill. Soon Congress will have the chance to vote to override the president’s veto. Because of the high threshold of votes needed, even with the majority Republicans hold in both the House of Representatives and the Senate, there just won’t be enough votes to override the veto. With his veto, President Obama clearly demonstrates how out of touch he is with East Alabama and all of America. I will also continue the fight against Obamacare. And I will never stop fighting for the rights of unborn children and our deeply held values. I want to hear from you. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com, on Medium at RepMikeRogersAL03 and can subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
01.21.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today ahead of the 43rd anniversary of the Roe v. Wade decision on January 22nd. “On this 43rd anniversary of Roe v. Wade, my pro-life stance is stronger than ever. As a Christian and a father of three, I know how sacred life is. Last year’s news of Planned Parenthood’s abortion procedures to obtain body parts of the unborn for research in exchange for money is further evidence of the dark legacy of Roe v. Wade. I will continue to fight for the rights of the unborn and our values,” Rogers said. - ### -
01.13.2016	The Second Amendment is one of our most deeply held rights as Americans especially here in East Alabama. President Obama is infringing upon our cherished right by recently announcing executive action to tighten gun control laws. In response to his unlawful action, I joined my colleagues on a bill of disapproval. During his time in office, the president has shown blatant disregard for the Constitutional rights of Americans and has continuously overstepped his power by circumventing Congress and our lawmaking process to do whatever he wants. As a gun owner myself, I am strongly opposed to any action that places any type of restrictions on our right to bear arms. Just last week, I signed onto H.R. 4321, the Separation of Powers Restoration and Second Amendment Protection Act. This legislation would make any executive action that infringes on the power of Congress or on the Second Amendment be null and void while prohibiting funds for it. I am one of the most ardent defenders of our Second Amendment rights in the House. This Congress I have cosponsored five bills that help protect our gun rights. One of them that has gained much attention is H.R. 3126. This legislation would prohibit the Commissioner of Social Security from furnishing the name of any individual in a report to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System unless a Federal court has determined the individual to be mentally defective. This administrative action is another attempt by the anti-gun left to chip away at our rights. Remember their strategy, just like with President Obama’s executive orders, is to whittle away at our rights until the government gets in control of everything in our lives. That’s why we must stay vigilant and fight. I will continue to stand up for the United States Constitution and fight for our Second Amendment rights. I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter by visiting www.mikerogers.house.gov. To stay up to date, you can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com, on Medium at RepMikeRogersAL03 and can subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
01.13.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed S.J. Res. 22, a joint resolution with the Senate to disapprove of an Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and Corps of Engineers rule governing Waters of the United States (WOTUS) known as “Clean Water Rule: Definition of ‘Waters of the United States.’” “I was pleased to have the chance to support the disapproval of the rule today. If this rule didn’t hurt East Alabama’s landowners and farmers, it would be laughable. The rule actually gives the EPA control of puddles. It’s a perfect example of President Obama and the massive Federal government’s overreach into our everyday lives,” Rogers said. - ### -
01.12.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today prior to President Obama delivering his final State of the Union Speech tonight. “Tonight’s speech will be more of the same. Over the past seven years, we have seen our country’s economy struggle, watched our national debt grow to astronomical numbers and lost our spot as a defense superpower in this world. We have watched the Federal government grow and become more intrusive in our day to day lives at the expense of our Constitutional rights. I am relieved President Obama’s time in office is coming to an end because no matter how much ‘hope and change’ was promised, our country is weaker and more polarized than ever,” Rogers said. - ### -
01.08.2016	The House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, chaired by Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL) will hold a hearing on Tuesday, January 12, 2016 at 3:30 p.m. in 2118 Rayburn House Office Building titled, “National Academies Study on Peer Review and Design Competition in the NNSA National Security Laboratories.” Chairman Rogers said: “The subcommittee tasked the National Academies with this study to get an objective, non-partisan panel of experts to review two important foundations of the U.S. nuclear weapons program. Robust peer review and design competitions for nuclear weapons are absolutely essential to the long-term health and reliability of the U.S. nuclear deterrent. The National Academies’ conclusion that it is ‘deeply concerned about the state of design competition’ at the nuclear weapons laboratories should be a wakeup call. This committee will continue to take action, as it did in the FY2015 and 2016 defense authorization acts and ensure the Administration corrects this glaring deficiency." WHAT: HASC Strategic Forces Subcommittee Hearing: “National Academies Study on Peer Review and Design Competition in the NNSA National Security Laboratories” WHEN: Tuesday, January 12, 2016 at 3:30 p.m. WHERE: 2118 Rayburn House Office Building -###-
01.07.2016	Today Congressman Mike Rogers and Congressman Kevin Cramer (R-ND) made a friendly wager on the outcome of the FCS National Championship Football game in Frisco, Texas on Saturday between Jacksonville State University and North Dakota State University. If the Gamecocks win, Congressman Cramer will treat Rogers’ staff to lunch and if somehow the Bisons win, Rogers will treat Cramer’s staff to lunch. “My wife Beth and I both went to JSU and are very proud alumni. I am looking forward to the game Saturday and my staff is looking forward to lunch next week provided by Congressman Cramer. Go Gamecocks,” Rogers said. -#-#-#-
01.06.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed legislation to repeal Obamacare that had previously passed the Senate. The bill, H.R. 3762, Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act, passed with Rogers’ strong support. “After voting to repeal Obamacare numerous times in the House without the legislation going anywhere in the Senate, I am thrilled that today this bill has passed both chambers and will finally go to President Obama’s desk. H.R. 3762 not only repeals Obamacare, it defunds Planned Parenthood and reduces Federal deficits by an estimated $78.1 billion by 2025. The American people have been very clear in their priorities that this flawed health care law just does not work for them, that Planned Parenthood must not be a wholesale provider of abortions and government spending must be kept in check. Now, President Obama will have the opportunity to make a choice, stand with the priorities of Americans or stand against them by vetoing the repeal bill,” Rogers said. - ### -
01.06.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers, Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, made the following statement today after learning from news reports that North Korea said it had conducted a successful hydrogen bomb test. “We are watching seven years of President Obama’s failures play out – this is what ‘leading from behind’ has wrought. While the President has wasted his two terms in office, North Korea has continued to develop its ballistic missile and nuclear weapons capabilities. “Now is the time for the president to ask South Korea’s President Park to accept the deployment of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system. The United States must also dramatically enhance trilateral missile defense and intelligence sharing – I urge the president to promptly send the Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary of Defense to Japan and South Korea to accomplish this,” Chairman Rogers said. -###-
01.04.2016	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after learning from news reports that President Obama plans to use an Executive Order this week to implement new gun control measures. “President Obama has spent his time in office expanding the size of government and infringing on our Constitutional rights. This is just another example of his blatant disregard for the Constitution. I remain completely opposed to any action that puts any level of restrictions on our right to bear arms. As a gun owner myself, I will continue to fight for our Second Amendment rights,” Rogers said. - ### -
12.18.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed the Consolidated Appropriations Act. Rogers strongly opposed the bill because funding for Obama’s Syrian Refugee plan was included in the legislation. “I am outraged that the bill that passed today did not prohibit funding for President Obama to bring refugees from the Syrian conflict to America. What happened in California demonstrates that Islamic terrorists are ready and willing to use our lax immigration system to enter our country to do us harm. Now, President Obama will be able to carry out his plan to let thousands of refugees from the Syrian conflict into the U.S. I have no confidence that these refugees can be properly vetted by this Administration. President Obama’s plan is dangerous and I will continue to fight against it.” Rogers said. - ### -
12.14.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after being elected to the Republican Steering Committee last week by his colleagues. The Steering Committee recommends Members of Congress to serve as Full Committee Chairmen based on their background, level of expertise and seniority as well as each Member’s committee assignments. Rogers is the first Alabamian in the last decade to serve on the prestigious committee. Over the last couple of years Rogers has become increasingly concerned that regions and the South particularly, weren’t being fairly represented. – for example, Southeastern states only have 4 Full Committee Chairmanships out of 20 Standing House Full Committees despite making up almost one-third of the House Republican Conference. “I am honored to have been elected to this committee, and am thrilled to have the opportunity to help ensure there is a regional balance across the board when it comes to committee chairmanships and committee assignments. Alabama and the South make up a significant portion of the House Republican Conference and deserve their fair share of assignments. I have been working with my Southern colleagues on the importance of making sure each region has a seat at the table and will bring this important initiative with me when our work begins on the committee,” Rogers said. Rogers was selected for one of six slots on the Republican Steering Committee out of 11 candidates running for the slots. - ### -
12.07.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers announced today that the deadline for applying for summer internships in his offices will be February 12, 2016. The internship program is designed to offer select college students a hands-on opportunity to learn about the legislative process, as well as the day-to-day operations of a Congressional office. To be considered for an internship, students must submit a current resume, cover letter and short writing sample to the Congressman’s intern coordinator. Please visit http://mike-rogers.house.gov/constituent-services/internships for more information, or call Rogers’ Washington, D.C. office at 202.225.3261. -###-
12.07.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after President Obama gave a national address Sunday to discuss his strategy on ISIS and call for stricter gun control after last week’s terrorist attack in San Bernardino, California. “President Obama’s address Sunday night was nothing more than him taking advantage of an opportunity to mask his failed strategy against ISIS. He used the San Bernardino terrorist attack as a plea for tighter gun control measures rather than announcing a real strategy to destroy ISIS. I will fight against any effort by the Obama Administration to restrict our Second Amendment rights. President Obama must realize the true threat of violent Islamic extremism and create a strategy to destroy it at its source. The American people deserve nothing less,” Rogers said. -###-
12.07.2015	The House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, chaired by Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL) will hold a hearing on Tuesday, December 08, 2015 at 2:00 p.m. in 2212 Rayburn House Office Building titled, “Prompt Global Strike: American and Foreign Development.” There will be a classified briefing at the conclusion of the hearing. Chairman Rogers said: “We have seen Russia and China move ahead quickly on developing and testing hypersonic strike capability. Yet, U.S. programs - for which we have had requirements since 2002 - are languishing in a poorly-resourced test program. Congress and the American people must understand the implications of losing this new arms race.” WHAT: HASC Strategic Forces Subcommittee Hearing: “Prompt Global Strike: American and Foreign Development” WHEN: Tuesday, December 08, 2015 at 2:00 p.m. WHERE: 2212 Rayburn House Office Building -###-
12.04.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after learning more about the alleged shooters in the mass shooting in San Bernardino, California. Recent news reports have stated the female shooting suspect, Tashfeen Malik, pledged allegiance to ISIS. According to press reports, Malik applied for a K-1 visa in Pakistan in 2014 and entered the U.S. through Saudi Arabia later the same year after going through proper channels undetected by U.S. intelligence officials. “The cowardly terrorist attack in California was a horrific tragedy. It is terrifying that Malik, who had ISIS loyalties, made it through the U.S. Visa process undetected. Knowing this, how in the world can we trust the Obama Administration’s ability to properly vet thousands of Syrian refugees? With such apparent gaps in the screening process, this demonstrates that President Obama’s plan to allow refugees from the Syrian conflict in to our country is dangerous and flawed. These terrorists are finding their way into our country without our help. We just cannot further risk our national security with President Obama’s plan. I will continue to fight it at every step,” Rogers said. Last week, Rogers sent a letter to President Obama demanding no Syrian refugees be allowed in the United States after learning from media reports that a group of refugees from Syria crossed the U.S.-Mexican border into Texas and had turned themselves in to Customs and Border Protection (CBP) seeking asylum. -###-
12.02.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the House passed Conference Report S. 1177, the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA). Rogers opposed the legislation because it does not shrink the size and scope of the Federal government’s involvement in primary and secondary education. ESSA allows the Federal government to interfere with our local educators using testing requirements, mandating approval of state plans and allowing bureaucratic coercion to influence how and what our children will be taught. “An education is the most valuable gift a child can receive, but placing mandates and regulations as a national one-size-fits-all approach, just does not work. Parents, teachers and local officials in East Alabama should be able to determine the best way to approach the learning process and learning pace. The Federal government has no business in the primary and secondary education system and I am disappointed the legislation passed the House of Representatives today,” Rogers said. - ### -
12.02.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after sending a letter to House Leadership with 119 of his colleagues to include several pro-life initiatives in the end of the year spending bill. The letter states, “As the end of the year spending bill is crafted, we respectfully ask for the inclusion of policies that will protect unborn children from the violence of abortion. In addition to retaining all existing pro-life riders (such as the Hyde amendment, Smith amendment and Helms amendment) pending House Appropriations bills contain many new and desperately needed pro-life initiatives which we encourage you to include in the end of the year package.” “As a Christian and a father of three, life is very precious to me. After hearing about the horrific actions of Planned Parenthood earlier this year, we need to ensure we are doing all we can to protect the lives of the unborn. I will continue to fight for this important cause,” Rogers said. -#-#-#-
12.02.2015	Each year before Christmas, I like to take the opportunity to highlight some of the great things the folks across East Alabama are doing for each other. Our state is filled with people who give back to their communities and towns by helping those who need it the most. The Tuskegee Fire Department collects Toys for Tots, Tuskegee municipal employees adopt families through DHR for Christmas and the Macon County Ministers Council provides for needy families. In Randolph County, the Pilot Club provides toys for the less fortunate. The Christian Service Center in Chambers County provides food, clothing and gifts for the needy. In St. Clair County, a mom who was having a bad day was slipped a $100 bill and a Bible verse. She shared the story on social media in hopes of finding the good Samaritan, but has promised to pay it forward. Pell City police officers have been working hard to help raise money and have toys donated for families in their area. Alabama Childhood Food Solutions which covers Talladega County, helps provide food for children from low income families. These children receive free breakfasts and lunches at school, but don’t know where their next meal will come from on weekends or holidays. In Lincoln, the Toys for Tykes program is underway to ensure needy children in the area have gifts. The Cleburne County Toys for Tots Program has been collecting toys since before Halloween, so there should be some very happy faces Christmas morning. In Pike Road, the town is hosting a supplies drive for Veterans for the sixth year in a row. The items will be delivered to Veterans in the Central Alabama Veterans Health Care System (CAVHCS) at both Montgomery and Tuskegee. In Anniston, at the Regional Medical Center (RMC), employees at the hospital are purchasing toys and gifts for the children of needy employees of RMC. This is just a small sampling of some of the wonderful ways East Alabamians are giving back to those less fortunate during the holidays. I wish you all a blessed and Merry Christmas season. I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mikerogers.house.gov, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
11.30.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following comments in honor of the 60th anniversary of the beginning of the Montgomery Bus Boycott. On December 1, 1955, Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat on a Montgomery city bus. “It has been 60 years since a woman named Rosa Parks sat in quiet protest on a Montgomery city bus instead of giving up her seat. Little did she know that her quiet act of defiance would help spark the Civil Rights movement. She was a great Alabamian and helped change the state for the better. I join Montgomery and Alabama in celebrating Rosa Parks and her legacy today,” Rogers said. -###-
11.30.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers sent a letter to Jeh Johnson, Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) last week after learning from media reports that a group of refugees from Syria crossed the U.S.-Mexican border into Texas and had turned themselves in to Customs and Border Protection (CBP) seeking asylum. Refugees who are arrested or turn themselves in to Customs officials may be able to file an asylum claim and remain in the U.S. pending deportation proceedings. Because of this, Rogers has serious concerns that any refugees able to make it to the United States will bypass the refugee vetting process and instead use the asylum process to stay in the country. Not thoroughly vetting each individual could put our homeland and Americans in serious danger. The letter states, “This message must be reinforced by the immediate return of all refugees to their most recent country of residence by any means possible after a thorough security screening. Refugees should be returned to the country from which they tried to enter the US, such as Mexico, if they cannot be returned to their home country. It is imperative that our neighbors know they cannot be complicit in the flow of refugees to America’s doorstep. The notion of the US border as a goal line for refugees will only create a broader humanitarian problem and endanger our national security. The asylum process often releases asylum seekers into the country on their own recognizance and that will only serve to intensify concerns that the refugee population is being introduced into the United States without proper vetting.” Rogers added, “After the recent terrorist attacks and warnings of more, the United States must be diligent in ensuring we keep out those who wish us harm and do our best to protect our national security. President Obama’s reckless plan to allow thousands of Syrian refugees into our country could put us in danger. We must make sure we are very watchful of any manner in which these refugees may try to enter the U.S.” -###-
11.30.2015	The House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, chaired by Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), and the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade will hold a joint hearing on Tuesday, December 01, 2015 at 3:30 p.m. in 2118 Rayburn House Office Building titled, “Russian Arms Control Cheating: Violation of the INF Treaty and the Administration’s Responses One Year Later.” Chairman Rogers said: “Almost one year since the Administration testified that it was considering military options to respond to Russia’s violation of the INF treaty, we have seen little action. The recently enacted National Defense Authorization Act will compel such responses, which the White House has been holding up. It is imperative that Putin understands his aggression will be met with a strong American response, even in the face of the President’s reluctance.” WHAT: HASC-HFAC Joint Subcommittee Hearing: “Russian Arms Control Cheating: Violation of the INF Treaty and the Administration’s Responses One Year Later” WHEN: Tuesday, December 01, 2015 at 3:30 p.m. WHERE: 2118 Rayburn House Office Building -###-
11.19.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed legislation in response to the Syrian refugee crisis. “I strongly oppose President Obama’s reckless plan to allow thousands of refugees from Syria and regions controlled by ISIS into the U.S. ISIS is currently using the refugee crisis as a pipeline to move Islamic terrorists into Europe. Especially after the attacks in Paris, we cannot and will not risk our national security for the sake of misplaced compassion and allow this Islamic terrorist pipeline to reach the United States. “This bill is the first step in the process to halt the Administration’s actions. Additionally, I plan to oppose any funding for President Obama’s refugee program when Congress considers the year’s final appropriations bill in December,” Rogers said. H.R. 4038 passed the House by a vote of 289 to 137, a veto proof majority of members voting today, and supported by the entire Alabama Delegation. -###-
11.17.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers sent a letter to President Obama today after learning the Calhoun County Sheriff’s office will lose their two armored vehicles known as M113s. Under Obama’s Executive Order, the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) must reclaim some surplus military equipment provided under the 1033 program to law enforcement, including the armored vehicles in Calhoun County. The letter states, “Your action will do nothing but make our law enforcement officials more vulnerable during the performance of their duties at a time when violent crime and terrorism present a clear threat to public safety.” Rogers added, “Less than a week after the horrific attacks on civilians in Paris, it seems more urgent than ever to ensure our law enforcement have the best equipment we can provide to counter any attack. It is just baffling to me that the president would weaken the possible security and safety of our local citizens.” -###-
11.16.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today on the Obama Administration’s Syrian refugee plan after Friday’s terrorist attacks in Paris. “I am very concerned about President Obama's plan. Bringing any Syrian refugees to the United States could potentially put Americans and our homeland in serious danger. The Paris attacks suggest that ISIL is using the refugee situation as an opportunity to move around locations to spread terror. I am not willing to put compassion over our national security in this instance.” -###-
11.13.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after a Federal court’s ruling this week against the Obama Administration’s plan to defer deportation and grant amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants currently in the U.S. “President Obama has no respect for the law, and his amnesty plan is just another blatant example of how he tries to circumvent the Constitution and Congress to get what he wants. I am pleased the court ruled against the Obama Administration’s plan and will continue to fight to protect our Constitution and keep the balance of power for the Executive branch in check.” -###-
11.06.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after President Obama rejected the proposed Keystone XL Pipeline. “With the rejection of the Keystone XL Pipeline, the Obama Administration once again stands in the way of job creation. With instability in the Middle East, North American energy is exactly what this country needs, but instead Obama’s policy agenda includes rejection of both reliable energy and American jobs. I am extremely disappointed, but not surprised, that this Administration is playing politics with our country’s economy.” -###-
11.05.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after being honored at The U.S.-Israeli Security Alliance Congressional Tribute. The award was recognizing legislative efforts to authorize and fund Israel’s defense systems including Iron Dome, David’s Sling and Arrow Defense Systems. Rogers was one of 12 Members of Congress recognized at the event. “Israel is one of our greatest allies. As a Christian, I will always support Israel, but as a Member of Congress and Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee, I actually have privilege of working for what is in America’s and Israel’s best interest. I am proud to have received this recognition, but must say it is truly an honor to have the opportunity to work together to help defend one of our strongest allies.” -###-
11.05.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after cosponsoring H.Res. 494, titled “Impeaching John Andrew Koskinen, Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), for high crimes and misdemeanors.” “The IRS has been overstepping its boundaries for far too long and it is past time that folks across East Alabama know if the IRS officials were trying to target opponents of the Obama Administration. Current IRS Commissioner Koskinen misled investigators on the Lois Lerner debacle and Koskinen gave contradictory statements under oath. This type of behavior should not be tolerated, and I will continue to fight to have the head of the IRS impeached.” -###-
11.05.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) again today after the original NDAA was vetoed by President Obama for not including funding for domestic programs. “Although this bill was not perfect, I was pleased it passed the House with my strong support after President Obama chose to play political games by vetoing the original NDAA. It is imperative our military have assurance of funding, and I hope this bill will move quickly through the Senate and President Obama will sign it into law.” -###-
11.04.2015	Each year on November 11th, we honor those brave men and women who have served our country in uniform and those who have paid the ultimate sacrifice for the freedoms we enjoy today. As many of you across East Alabama may know, I have a Veterans Advisory Council that includes Veterans from each of the thirteen counties that make up the Third District. These council meetings allow me the opportunity to hear directly what is on the minds of our Veterans and take their concerns back to Washington. This year our meeting is scheduled during the week of Veterans Day and will include a very special guest, Mr. Bennie Adkins of Opelika. Mr. Adkins was awarded the Medal of Honor in September of 2014 for his acts of bravery on the battlefield during Vietnam. Mr. Adkins, like all of our Veterans, is a true American hero and we look forward to having him at our meeting. Over the past couple of years, most folks may have seen on the news the different scandals that have occurred within our VA System, including the Central Alabama Veterans Healthcare System (CAVHS) in Montgomery. I think we all can agree our Veterans deserve the best care we can offer them. It is the least we can do to thank them for their selfless service. One of the changes implemented was the Veterans Choice Program that allows Veterans to get health care from non-VA doctors. Unfortunately some of our Veterans still haven’t been able to get the help they need. That is why I’ve joined Congressman Byrne in cosponsoring H.R. 1096 which would make the choice program work better by changing the criteria to closest medical service instead of medical facility. While this is just one fix to one issue it is an example of what we as a Congress have to continue to do to make sure we keep the Veteran’s Administration accountable and responsive to the needs of our Veterans. In addition, my office always stands ready to assist any Veteran from the Third District when it comes to dealing with the VA. Not just on Veterans Day, but every day, I encourage all of us across East Alabama to remember the men and women in uniform that have lost their lives and to keep those still serving and their families in our thoughts and prayers. God Bless America. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mikerogers.house.gov, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03. You can also sign up for my next Tele-town Hall event, which will be held later this month, by visiting my Vekeo page at vekeo.com/channels/congressman-mike-rogers/.
11.03.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers reminds any graduating high school seniors for 2016 interested in receiving a Congressional nomination to attend one of the U.S. Service Academies to complete applications, which are available at http://mikerogers.house.gov/constituent-services/academy-nominations, and mail them to one of his district offices soon. To be considered for a nomination for appointment to any of the service academies, including the U.S. Military Academy, the Naval Academy, the Air Force Academy and the Merchant Marines Academy, seniors must complete Rogers’ application material and mail the completed packets to one of Rogers’ district offices. The applications can be sent to: Congressman Mike Rogers Congressman Mike Rogers Attn: Service Academy Application Attn: Service Academy Application 1129 Noble Street, Suite 104 701 Avenue A, Suite 300 Anniston, AL 36201 Opelika, AL 36801 The deadline for receipt of these applications is December 15, 2015. Please visit www.mikerogers.house.gov/constituent-services/academy-nominations with any questions, or call Rogers’ Washington, D.C. office at 202.225.3261. -###-
10.30.2015	The House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, chaired by Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), will hold a hearing on Tuesday, November 03, 2015 at 3:30 p.m. in 2212 Rayburn House Office Building titled, “Future Options for the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent – Views from Project Atom.” Chairman Rogers said: “Project Atom is a remarkable study that is finally bringing fresh, “clean slate” thinking to U.S. nuclear strategy and posture. The study shines a light on what it calls ‘the current deficit in national security attention paid to the continued relevance and importance of U.S. nuclear strategy and force posture.’ More importantly, it offers clear-headed, logical recommendations for a future U.S. nuclear strategy that is not based on the fallacies of the past or the fantasy of a world without nuclear weapons.” WHAT: HASC Strategic Forces Subcommittee Hearing: “Future Options for the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent – Views from Project Atom” WHEN: Tuesday, November 03, 2015 at 3:30 p.m. WHERE: 2212 Rayburn House Office Building -###-
10.28.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after a Federal judge in Alabama ruled the state must restore their Medicaid payments to Planned Parenthood despite their recent barbaric abortion procedures to obtain body parts for money was discussed on video. “I was very disappointed today to hear the Federal judge’s ruling in favor of restoring state funding to Planned Parenthood. I remain shocked and disgusted by the content on the videos and believe it should be up to states to decide if funding should go to providers who offer abortions. That is why I am a strong supporter of H.R. 3495, legislation that would put the states in charge, not Planned Parenthood. I will continue to fight for the rights of the unborn.” -###-
10.22.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after President Obama vetoed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). “I am deeply disappointed, but not surprised that President Obama vetoed this bipartisan and critical piece of legislation, not for what was in it, but for what was not in it. The NDAA funds our troops and our national security, and the president should be ashamed of himself for playing political games with our brave men and women in uniform and our country’s safety.” Rogers served as a Conferee for this year’s NDAA. -###-
10.22.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after cosponsoring legislation to remove the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) head for her poor performance as Administrator. The bill is H.Res. 417 and is titled: “Impeaching Regina McCarthy, Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency, for high crimes and misdemeanors.” It was introduced by Rep. Paul Gosar (R-AZ). “Under the Obama Administration, the EPA has really overstepped its boundaries. Their continuous nonsense regulations have proven to be not only unlawful, but have put a heavy burden on Alabama’s farmers and have stifled job creation across the country. “Administrator McCarthy must go. She has lied under oath to support the Administration’s radical agenda which is hurting America.” -###-
10.21.2015	The gift of life is a precious thing, as I have learned firsthand during the past 21 years from my experience as a father of three children. My kids are my world and the reason for everything I do in life. Since coming to Washington, the news of what Planned Parenthood’s been doing has been some of the most disturbing and disgusting information I have ever heard. Recently, folks in East Alabama may have seen on the news videos of Planned Parenthood employees discussing the gruesome abortion procedures they have used to obtain body parts of unborn children to be used in research in exchange for money. These outrageous practices by Planned Parenthood are unconscionable to me as both a Christian and as a strong defender of the rights of the unborn. When these videos came to light a couple months ago, I voted to halt all Federal funding to Planned Parenthood, but that legislation failed in the Senate. A few states have also tried to cut funding to Planned Parenthood, just like Governor Bentley did right here in Alabama. Unfortunately, the Obama Administration has continued to block states’ efforts with costly lawsuits. Because of this, I cosponsored H.R. 3495, the Women's Public Health and Safety Act. This bill would amend the Medicaid law to allow states to exclude any provider who offered abortions, including Planned Parenthood, from receiving any state funding. States should be able to decide on their own, without the interference of the Federal government. In addition, H.Res.461, that passed the House with my strong support, establishes a Select Investigative Panel to look further into the cruel practices of Planned Parenthood. Ultimately, I believe that the leaders of Planned Parenthood should end up in a courtroom to answer for their barbaric actions. I will never stop fighting for our values and the rights of the unborn. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mikerogers.house.gov, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
10.07.2015	As you may have seen in the news, the Conference Report to accompany H.R. 1735 – National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016 passed the House of Representatives. We can all agree that providing for the common defense is our government’s most important duty. Each year Congress passes the defense bill to make sure that the Pentagon has the resources and flexibility they need to fulfill that mission. I was appointed to serve on the conference committee and worked with a bi-partisan and bi-cameral group of Members to iron out all the details of this crucial piece of legislation. Besides authorizing funding for the Pentagon to fund our military and help keep our nation safe, this bill included language that could directly affect folks across the Third District. One piece of the bill I was thrilled about was language similar to my amendment to allow the Army to transfer its surplus vintage firearms to the Civilian Marksmanship Program (CMP) to sell. Although the final language was not perfect, I am pleased it was included. This means the excess M1911A1 pistols, better known as 1911s, which used to be the standard U.S. Armed Forces sidearm, will be transferred to the CMP for them to inspect, grade and prepare to sell. Currently these excess 1911s are sitting in storage costing the taxpayer roughly $200,000 a year. So in the near future, the public will have the chance to purchase this vintage collectible firearm. The second inclusion that could impact East Alabamians is the language that would prohibit furloughs at Working Capital facilities as long as there was funded workload. Working Capital Fund facilities include the Anniston Army Depot, one of the largest employers in the area, so I am pleased this language will help offer those employees a little more security for the vital work they do for our brave warfighters. Although the NDAA has passed the House of Representatives, at the time of this writing, it still must pass the Senate and then be sent to the President for his signature. President Obama has threatened to veto this bill. I urge him not to play games with our national security and to sign this important bill. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mikerogers.house.gov, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
10.02.2015	The House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, chaired by Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), will hold a hearing on Wednesday, October 07, 2015 at 3:30 p.m. in 2118 Rayburn House Office Building titled, “Plutonium Disposition and the MOX Project.” Chairman Rogers said: “This hearing will examine one of the Department of Energy’s largest and highest profile construction projects. In view of several recent reviews that have examined alternative approaches to disposition of U.S. weapons grade plutonium, this hearing will offer Members an important opportunity to oversee the Department’s current approach and to determine what is in the best interests of the taxpayer and national security. ” WHAT: HASC Strategic Forces Subcommittee Hearing: “Plutonium Disposition and the MOX Project ” WHEN: Wednesday, October 07, 2015 at 3:30 p.m. WHERE: 2118 Rayburn House Office Building -###-
10.01.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers was pleased the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 1735 – National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016 passed the House of Representatives today. Congressman Rogers served as a Conferee. Besides authorizing additional funding for the Department of Defense, which Rogers strongly supports, the bill included provisions that would be good for East Alabama. Language similar to Rogers’ amendment to allow the Army to transfer its surplus vintage firearms, the excess M1911A1 pistols, to the Civilian Marksmanship Program (CMP) to sale was included in the Conference Report. The final language was not perfect, but will began to get these vintage weapons into the hands of collectors. Also included was language that would prohibit furloughs at Working Capital Fund facilities as long as there was funded workload. The Anniston Army Depot, one of the largest employers in East Alabama, is a Working Capital Fund facility. “We worked long and hard on this crucial piece of legislation. I am proud it passed the House with my strong support and am pleased our military is funded to help keep our nation safe. I am very pleased with the CMP amendment and the inclusion of the language to take care of the Depot. I hope the Senate will quickly pass this legislation so it can go to President Obama to be signed into law,” Rogers said. -###-
09.16.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks in advance of the 228th anniversary of the adoption of the United States Constitution. “September 17th marks the 228th anniversary of the United States Constitution. Together with all Americans, today I celebrate this document which was written over two centuries ago by our Founding Fathers. “As a member of the United States Congress, it is my duty to uphold and defend our Constitution. Americans expect their government to adhere to the principles in this important document and I will continue to fight for it. The Constitution still serves as a blueprint for our country and I am proud to celebrate it today,” Rogers said. -###-
09.10.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today in advance of the 14th anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks and the third anniversary of the deadly attack on Americans in Benghazi, Libya. “On this anniversary of the 9/11 attacks 14 years ago on our country and the third anniversary of the Benghazi attacks, I hope we all will continue to keep the families of those who lost loved ones on these tragic days in our thoughts and prayers. “We will never forget September 11, 2001 – from the cowardly terrorist attacks to the innocent men and women who lost their lives and the way Americans came together as one. May God continue to bless our great country.” -###-
09.09.2015	Like every August since being elected to Congress, my schedule during this August District Work Period was no different. My days were filled with events from visiting senior centers, touring plants, spending time with constituents and holding town hall-style meetings across East Alabama. One thing I love about having this time in East Alabama is that throughout the month, I got to directly hear what was on the minds of folks in the Third District. The issue I heard most about was concern over our national security and the continued executive overreach by the President. As Congress now returns to Washington, the Iran deal takes center stage. As you may know, since the beginning, I have been adamantly opposed to this deal with Iran and I heard the same opposition from many of you this last month. Iran has proven time and time again that they cannot be trusted and have done nothing but fund terror across the Middle East against those like our closest ally Israel. This deal will simply reward their bad behavior. This deal is bad for our global security because it ends the embargo on Iran’s ballistic missile program and will impact U.S. and allied missile defense capabilities. As Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee, I am holding a hearing on these negative implications in addition to the impact to nonproliferation. President Obama continues to roll out executive orders impacting our jobs and families. As Congress gets back to work, I will keep in mind the concerns I heard while back in East Alabama and will continue to fight for the folks across the Third District. Putting the brakes on this executive overreach is paramount. On the 14th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks and 3rd anniversary of the Benghazi attacks, let’s also keep the families of those who lost loved ones on that tragic days in our prayers. May God bless America. As always, I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mikerogers.house.gov, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03. You can also sign up for my next Tele-town Hall event by visiting my Vekeo page at vekeo.com/channels/congressman-mike-rogers/.
09.09.2015	The House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, chaired by Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), will hold a hearing on Thursday, September 10, 2015 at 2:00 p.m. in 2118 Rayburn House Office Building titled, “The Obama Administration’s Deal with Iran: Implications for Missile Defense and Nonproliferation.” Chairman Rogers said: “While I remain adamantly opposed to this misguided deal with Iran, it is imperative Members understand it before they vote on it. It is critical Members understand, for example, how the President’s decision to agree to end the embargo on Iran’s ballistic missile program will impact U.S. and allied ballistic missile defense capabilities. Additionally, we must understand the impacts in the Middle East on U.S. efforts to prevent the spread of uranium enrichment and plutonium reprocessing, which we have denied our allies, but are conceding to Iran.” WHAT: HASC Strategic Forces Subcommittee Hearing: “The Obama Administration’s Deal with Iran: Implications for Missile Defense and Nonproliferation” WHEN: Thursday September 10, 2015 at 2:00 p.m. WHERE: 2118 Rayburn House Office Building -###-
09.08.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers reiterated today how pleased he was to have Pope Francis visit the United States, including Washington, D.C., for the first time when he comes to America later this month. While in Washington, the Pope will address a Joint Meeting of Congress on September 24th at 10:00 a.m. EDT. “Having the Pope of the Roman Catholic Church visit our country, especially for his very first time, is exciting and historic,” Rogers said. “I am looking forward to having Pope Francis here.” A limited number of tickets are available to each congressional office to watch the Joint Meeting of Congress telecasted on the West Lawn of the United States Capitol on September 24th. These tickets are available on a first-come, first-serve basis. For more information, please contact the Washington, D.C. office at 202.225.3261. The deadline to request tickets is September 16th. -###-
08.21.2015	Maxwell Air Force Base is taking its reputation as the “Intellectual and Leadership Center of the Air Force” to the next level as it expands into the realm of cyber warfare. U.S. Representatives Mike Rogers and Martha Roby, whose districts include parts of Montgomery, visited Maxwell on Friday for a briefing from Lt. Gen. Steve Kwast, Commander and President of Air University, on plans to establish the Air Force Cyber College on campus. Gen. Kwast’s vision for the new college is bringing the best and brightest minds in cyber technology and strategy to Air University to offer instruction in this emerging front of global warfare. By connecting the region’s existing data infrastructure and significant intellectual resources, the Air Force Cyber College could soon be a catalyst for major economic development opportunities as well. Congressman Rogers was impressed by the collaboration taking place to make this cyber initiative a reality. “I was pleased to see the Cyber College collaborating with different entities across the state to allow the sharing of data and information at rapid speeds. It's a dangerous world and our war fighters need the best tools available. I am proud to see this cutting edge initiative taking place in Alabama." Rep. Roby said this exciting new venture was critical for the future of the Air Force. “The cyber war is here, and many believe we are already struggling to keep up,” Rep. Roby said. “It seems like every day you hear about new attacks or breaches, and our adversaries are growing bolder. If Russia or China built a new fleet of bombers, we would absolutely make sure our military had the proper resources to deter that new threat. So why wouldn’t we now do everything possible to combat the growing cyber threat? “I appreciate Gen. Kwast’s vision and leadership on this issue. It is clear we have a tremendous asset for Maxwell in Gen. Kwast, and I look forward to supporting his efforts in Congress.” For more information on Air University and the Air Force Cyber College, visit http://www.au.af.mil. -###-
08.04.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today following President Obama’s clean power plan announcement this week. “This Administration and the EPA continue their pattern of overreach into our lives and pockets with President Obama’s clean power plan announcement. In June, the Supreme Court ruled against parts of President Obama’s radical agenda, yet he continues to push forward with his faulty environmental plans. This clean power plan will do nothing more than pass on additional costs to consumers and raise energy prices for hard-working families across East Alabama already struggling to make it paycheck to paycheck. I will continue to fight against this very flawed proposal.” - ### -
08.04.2015	Today Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement after the Senate failed to pass legislation to halt Federal funding for Planned Parenthood. “I am very disappointed the Senate failed to pass legislation to stop Federal funding for Planned Parenthood. The Senate Democrats have chosen to stand with these outrageous practices. I remain disgusted and outraged by recent videos discussing alterations of their abortion procedures to obtain certain organs to sell for research. As a Christian and pro-life Member of Congress, I will continue to fight for the rights of the unborn.” - ### -
07.29.2015	Each August, Congress recesses for the August District Work Period to allow Members of Congress the chance to get back and spend some time in their home state. I am looking forward to this upcoming work period so I can start making my way across the Third District. Having the opportunity to visit with folks and hear what’s on their minds helps me better represent their interests in Washington. Throughout the month, I will be holding “Congress on Your Corner” events which are like town hall meetings. I will hold these events in different areas of East Alabama to give folks a chance for a face-to-face update on what’s been going on in Congress. It also gives people the chance to ask questions and let me know about issues that are on their minds. Keep checking your local papers and radio stations to learn more. I hope to see you at one. I will be making several stops to tour different industries in East Alabama. These companies are vital to creating good paying jobs. I will also be making a few visits to some of our senior centers from Heflin to Odenville. Some of the best conversations occur there. Additionally, I’m looking forward to speaking at a couple of different Rotary clubs. Later on, I will get an update on first responder training while visiting the Center for Domestic Preparedness in Anniston. As well as touring Maxwell Gunter Air Force Base in Montgomery with Congressman Martha Roby. In Auburn, I’ll attend a Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) demonstration and get to see first-hand the training they are doing with their canine program. With so much going on in Congress and across the globe, this month will provide a good opportunity to ensure I keep working to represent each of you. I look forward to seeing you in August! As always, I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mikerogers.house.gov, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03. You can also sign up for my next Tele-town Hall event in September by visiting my Vekkeo page at vekeo.com/channels/congressman-mike-rogers/.
07.24.2015	Today Congressman Mike Rogers announced a change in his Washington, D.C. staff. Christopher R. Brinson, who has served as the Deputy Chief of Staff since Rogers came to Washington has been promoted to the Chief of Staff position. He will replace Marshall Macomber who served as Chief of Staff for over 10 years. Mr. Macomber will be starting his own consulting firm in Washington, D.C. “First, I would like to thank Marshall for all his hard work and dedication. I know he will bring that same determination and skill to his new career. I wish him all the best. Chris has been on the Hill for over 17 years and brings a wealth of knowledge and managerial skills to the position. He is very familiar with East Alabama and I know he will be a great asset to me and my staff in this new role,” Rogers said. The staff change will be effective on August 1st. -###-
07.21.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today urging President Obama to order flags be flown at half-staff to honor the victims in the Chattanooga shooting. “Five American service members lost their lives in Chattanooga last week. President Obama should do the right thing to honor these fallen Americans by ordering the American flag be lowered. We’ve done it at the Capitol and it should be done across the country.” - ### -
07.15.2015	Today Congressman Mike Rogers, a senior member of the House Agriculture Committee, participated in a full committee hearing titled, “Recognizing the continuing contributions of the 1890s Land-Grant Universities on the 125th Anniversary of the passage of the Second Morrill Act.” The hearing took place at 10:00 a.m. in 1300 Longworth House Office Building. The President of Tuskegee University, Dr. Brian Johnson, testified at the hearing. After the hearing Rogers said, “I am pleased Members of the Agriculture Committee got to hear firsthand from Dr. Johnson. Tuskegee University is an outstanding educational institution and I am proud it is located in the Third District.” -###-
07.15.2015	Properly funding our military is one of Congress’ most important jobs and critical in keeping our homeland safe and ensuring our country’s readiness. People across the globe look to the United States for leadership when it comes to our military. But our prestige as the world’s most dominant military will be in danger if Congress doesn’t do more to ensure our military remains strong. On the Armed Services Committee, my focus continues to be strengthening our national defense. Recently, I was selected to serve as a key negotiator on discussions between the House and Senate versions of the National Defense Authorization Act. From my perspective, you can’t win a war if you don’t have the best equipment to fight a war. Back home, the Anniston Army Depot is one of the most efficient maintenance and repair facilities in the entire military. I was pleased about two amendments included in the House-passed version of the Defense bill that would help protect jobs at facilities like the Anniston Army Depot. You may have seen on the news recently the Army announced cuts in the active duty military due to the relentless defense budget cuts imposed by President Obama. From his first day in office, Obama has sought to cut funding for our national defense. From the push for sequestration to his current veto threats of defense authorization and appropriations, these actions are threatening the creation of a shell of a military to face our very real threats in this dangerous world. Another area we must focus on is new, non-traditional threats. Not all our enemies are on the land, air or sea. Space is the next battlefield. Assured access to space and the pressing national security issue of reliance on foreign rocket capabilities is one of my top priorities. We cannot ignore this because of the very important role space plays in our national security. As always, I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mikerogers.house.gov, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
07.14.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the announcement of the Iran deal. “I was very disappointed in today’s announcement of the Iran nuclear deal. Iran is a state that cannot be trusted and this deal rewards bad behavior while compromising our national and global security. I am completely opposed to this deal.” - ### -
06.23.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers announced his Opelika office has moved and is now open at: 701 Avenue A, Suite 300, G.W. Andrews Federal Building, Opelika, Alabama 36801. Rogers said his mobile office will continue in Smiths Station and will be open at City Hall the first Tuesday of each month from 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. EDT. “I have always said my door is open to the people of Lee County and the entire Third District,” Rogers said. “I am excited about our new location in Opelika and hope local citizens will continue to take advantage of my district office and our mobile office hours to express their concerns about the federal government directly to a member of my staff.” -#-#-#-
06.22.2015	The House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, chaired by Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), will hold a hearing on Friday, June 26, 2015 at 10:30 a.m. in 2212 Rayburn House Office Building titled, “Assuring National Security Space: Investing in American Industry to End Reliance on Russian Rocket Engines.” Chairman Rogers said: “The clock is ticking - our reliance on Russian rocket engines for national security space launches is ending. It is not the time to fund new launch vehicles, or new infrastructure, or rely on unproven technologies. It is the time for the Pentagon to harness the power of the American industrial base, and move with purpose and clarity in order to swiftly develop an American rocket propulsion system that ends our reliance on Russia as soon as possible. I will not allow the resources Congress has made available for this purpose to be wasted or misused.” WHAT: HASC Strategic Forces Subcommittee Hearing: “Assuring National Security Space: Investing in American Industry to End Reliance on Russian Rocket Engines” WHEN: Friday, June 26, 2015 at 10:30 a.m. WHERE: 2212 Rayburn House Office Building The House Armed Services Committee will also hold a hearing on Thursday, June 25, 2015 at 10:00 a.m. in 2118 Rayburn House Office Building titled, “Nuclear Deterrence in the 21st Century.” Chairman Rogers said: “I thank Chairman Thornberry for holding this important hearing and for conducting this entire Nuclear Deterrent Oversight Week at HASC. As a country, we’ve lost visibility on the fundamental role our nuclear deterrent plays in our national security and international stability. With Russia making increasingly aggressive nuclear threats to the U.S. and our allies, China’s increasingly belligerent activity against our allies, and the President’s apparent hellbent pursuit of a nuclear deal that guarantees Iran a nuclear weapons capability and a cascade of proliferation in the Middle East, this hearing will remind everyone why nuclear deterrence is the Pentagon’s highest priority defense mission.” WHAT: HASC Hearing: “Nuclear Deterrence in the 21st Century” WHEN: Thursday, June 25, 2015 at 10:00 a.m. WHERE: 2118 Rayburn House Office Building -###-
06.17.2015	Anyone across East Alabama who has taken a flight over the past few years knows what a long and frustrating event the passenger screening process can be as folks make their way with their belongings to their gate of departure. After the 9/11 terrorist attacks on U.S. soil, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) was created to help prevent any further attacks and strengthen the security of our aviation system. Unfortunately, TSA has become one of the most dysfunctional and despised agencies in the Federal government. I did not serve in Congress when TSA was created, but as a current member of the Committee on Homeland Security and former Chairman over Transportation Security subcommittee, I have been and remain an outspoken critic of the TSA. Jokingly, some folks say TSA stands for “Thousands Standing Around,” and we are all familiar with their famous mishaps like treating a 95-year-old cancer patient like a terrorist. But now, more troubling, we learn that TSA failed 67 out of 70 government tests to detect weapons or fake explosives. I believe TSA is a failure because it is a bloated bureaucracy that wastes millions of taxpayer dollars while trampling on the privacy of innocent Americans. This week, I was part of the Homeland Security Transportation Security Subcommittee Hearing titled, “How TSA Can Improve Aviation Worker Vetting.” The purpose of the hearing was to discuss the vetting of the TSA workers after it came to light that over 70 aviation workers across the country had some sort of ties to terrorism. Again, it is unfathomable to me that this is even happening. We cannot take risks when it comes to the safety of our traveling public and our homeland. TSA, as it is currently structured, is a massive failure that can’t even get its most basic task done right. It is time to clean house at TSA and reinvent it as a smarter, leaner organization that incorporates private sector ingenuity. As always, I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mikerogers.house.gov, sign up for my Tele-town Hall calls by subscribing to my Vekeo channel at https://vekeo.com/channels/congressman-mike-rogers/, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
06.04.2015	Across East Alabama, many of you may agree with me that the United States’ participation with the United Nations (U.N.) should end immediately. The U.N. continues to prove it’s an inefficient bureaucracy and a complete waste of American tax dollars. Although the United States makes up almost a quarter of the U.N.’s annual budget, the U.N. has attempted a number of actions that attack our rights as U.S. citizens. To name a few, these initiatives include actions like the Law of the Sea Treaty, which would subject our country to internationally-based environmental mandates, costing American businesses more money, or the U.N.’s work to re-establish an international regulation regime on global warming which would heavily target our fossil fuels. The U.N. has also offered a potential Arms Trade Treaty which would threaten our Second Amendment rights and impose regulations on our gun manufacturers, who are already facing regulations and pressure from the Obama Administration. Lastly, the U.N. does not support Israel and voted to grant the Palestinian Authority “non-member state” permanent observer status. Anyone who is not a friend to our ally Israel, is not a friend to the United States. Because of these actions among others, I introduced H.R. 1205, the American Sovereignty Restoration Act of 2015. My legislation would end our country’s participation in the U.N. and any organizations affiliated with them. Why should the American taxpayer bankroll an international organization that works against America’s interests around the world? The time is now to restore and protect American sovereignty and get out of the United Nations. As always, I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mikerogers.house.gov, sign up for my Tele-town Hall calls on my Vekeo channel at http://vekeo.buzz/f1a, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
05.21.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement in honor of our service men and women as we prepare to remember them on Memorial Day, May 25, 2015. “Memorial Day is a day we remember the brave men and women who have served our country in uniform and have paid the ultimate sacrifice in keeping our country safe and free. “We pray for those families who have lost their loved ones and we honor the sacrifice by each and every one of our service men and women, not only today, but every day. God Bless the United States of America.” -###-
05.20.2015	As many of you across East Alabama may have seen or heard in the news, the National Defense Authorization Act recently passed the House of Representatives with my strong support. This critical piece of legislation outlines how Congress will support our nation’s military. I was relieved to see that Congress increased the overall authorized funding for our nation’s military. Several key provisions important to East Alabama made it into the bill. The first was a commitment to help protect jobs at important military facilities like the Anniston Army Depot, one of the Army’s most productive and efficient facilities. Folks across East Alabama may remember a few years ago when the Depot had to furlough some workers because of the Pentagon’s poor budget management. This new provision would protect facilities like the Depot that operate under the Working Capital Fund from being forced to furlough workers in order to meet arbitrary budget demands from the Pentagon. Another was my amendment to allow the Army to transfer its surplus vintage firearms to the Civilian Marksmanship Program (CMP) which has its southern headquarters in Anniston and will soon have the CMP park open in June in Talladega County. If you’re a gun owner like I am, you may be familiar with the M1911A1. This iconic pistol used to serve as the standard U.S. Armed Forces sidearm, until it was replaced by the Berretta 9mm pistol. Although a few thousand of these pistols have been sold to foreign countries for a small fee, the remainder are being held in storage. That costs the taxpayer about $200,000 a year. As a strong supporter of Second Amendment rights, I believe this bill is a common-sense approach to not only save the taxpayer money, but allows gun collectors to add this vintage pistol to their collection. It is my hope that both provisions will stay in the bill as the process moves forward in the Senate. I also hope the Administration will ultimately support them. Providing for our national defense is a top priority to keep our country safe and our defenses strong. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mikerogers.house.gov, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
04.30.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks after passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2016 out of the House Armed Service Committee (HASC), which included language that would help protect jobs at the Anniston Army Depot. The language included in the NDAA would prohibit furloughs at Working Capital Fund facilities, such as the Depot, as long as there is funded workload. When sequestration first went into effect, a one-size-fits-all approach was used and unnecessary furloughs took place. This language will keep that from happening again. In addition, Rogers, along with his colleagues, offered an amendment with Congressman Rob Bishop (R-UT) that would exempt civilian jobs funded by the Working Capital Fund, like those jobs at the Depot, from the planned 20 percent reduction at headquarters such as the Pentagon. “The Anniston Army Depot is one of the largest employers in our area and is the most efficient production and maintenance facility the Army has. The Depot helps ensure our men and women in uniform have the best possible resources to support their missions. I was pleased with these inclusions in the NDAA this year. I will continue to fight for the jobs and long-term security of the Depot,” Rogers said. The NDAA is expected to come to the House Floor in May. -#-#-#-
04.30.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks after passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2016 out of the House Armed Services Committee (HASC), which included his amendment to allow the Army to transfer its surplus vintage firearms to the Civilian Marksmanship Program (CMP). “As a gun owner and strong believer in the Second Amendment, my proposal is a common-sense approach to eliminating an unnecessary cost to the Federal government while allowing the very capable CMP to handle the sale of these vintage firearms that otherwise would just sit in storage. This amendment is a win – win for the taxpayer. I was pleased the amendment passed the committee and appreciate the support my colleagues on this proposal,” Rogers said. Currently, the Army stores excess M1911A1 pistols, which used to be the standard U.S. Armed Forces sidearm, until it was replace by the Berretta 9mm pistol. Besides the 8,300 pistols that have been sold to law enforcement and transferred to foreign countries for a small price, the rest of the M1911A1 pistols are now being held in storage costing the taxpayer around $200,000 a year. Transferring these vintage pistols to the CMP would allow them to inspect, grade, prepare for sale and sell these pistols. The CMP would reimburse the Army for costs associated with transferring the pistols. CMP South, headquartered in Anniston, Alabama, oversees sales. CMP North is headquartered in Camp Perry, Ohio. The NDAA is expected to come to the House Floor in May. - ### -
04.22.2015	If there is one lesson I have learned in my time in Congress, it is that you cannot keep your finger on the pulse of those you represent if you don’t hear what’s on their minds. With that rule of thumb, the upcoming District Work Period in May has my schedule filling up quickly with “Congress on Your Corner” events, plant tours, interviews and constituent meetings, including a meeting of my Third District Veterans Advisory Council. Moving around East Alabama is such a great reminder to me of why I wanted to be a public servant. The “Congress on Your Corner” events are local gatherings I hold that are open to the public in each county. In these meetings, we discuss what’s going on in Congress and what is on the minds of those who attend. They are a great resource for me to take the concerns I hear at the event straight back to Washington. The plant tours offer a unique opportunity not only for me to see firsthand the great work done by the hardworking men and women in East Alabama, but also the hardships brought on by Federal regulations and Obamacare. The health care law has really hurt many of our local small businesses and I will continue to fight against this flawed piece of legislation. The Third District Veterans Advisory Council is made up of Veterans from each of the 13 counties that make up the Third Congressional District. I try to meet with this group at least twice a year. These Veterans keep me up to speed on what issues local Veterans are talking about so I can better represent those brave men and women who have served in uniform and their families. It is the least I can do for them. It has also been helpful to hear from them when it comes to their care and the situation at the Central Alabama Veterans Health Care System (CAVHCS). I hope as I make my way through the towns and small communities in early May that I will get to visit with each of you, but if we don’t have the chance, please contact my office if I can ever be of service to you or your families. As always, I’d like to hear from you. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mikerogers.house.gov, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
04.14.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today in response to the news of Russia lifting their ban of missile sales to Iran. “This news is disappointing, but should not come as a surprise. The Iran deal the President wanted so badly, he got badly. “This Russian action is further proof of why these negotiations are a dead end. Now, who can honestly say Russia would be there to respond to Iranian cheating when they are the ones who sold Iran the means to greatly complicate a military response to such cheating.” - ### -
04.09.2015	The House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, chaired by Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), will hold a hearing on Wednesday, April 15, 2015 at 3:30 p.m. in 2118 Rayburn House Office Building regarding the Department of Defense’s (DOD) Fiscal Year 2016 Budget Request for Nuclear Forces. Chairman Rogers said: “In the past year, senior leaders at the Department of Defense have made it clear that nuclear deterrence is the nation’s number one defense mission. That is the correct priority, and my subcommittee will ensure it is reflected in both policies and budgets. This hearing will take a hard look at the budget request to ensure it is fulfilling the Administration’s commitments to modernize and sustain our nuclear forces. The U.S. nuclear deterrent underpins our national security and international security. As Russia continues to rattle its nuclear saber at the U.S. and our allies, it is the strength of U.S. nuclear forces that makes sure we will never be intimidated or coerced.” WHAT: HASC Strategic Forces Subcommittee Hearing: “DOD’s FY16 Budget Request for Nuclear Forces” WHEN: Wednesday, April 15th at 3:30 p.m. WHERE: 2118 Rayburn House Office Building -###-
03.25.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today after the House of Representatives passed the House Budget Committee’s proposal with the Price substitute #2 that included $20 billion for defense. This substitute created sufficient funding levels for the Department of Defense funding Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) at $96 billion. “Across East Alabama, hard-working families live on a budget – even when it means making some tough spending decisions. The Federal government should do the same thing. This bill will balance the budget over the next ten years while cutting spending. But it ensures the spending levels are in place to fund our military, readiness and keep our homeland safe. In this dangerous world we live in today, we must not risk our national security. I was pleased to see this legislation pass the House today with my support,” Rogers said. - ### -
03.25.2015	Since coming to Congress, I’ve had the honor to serve as a member of the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) – which has given me the opportunity to see firsthand the importance of our national defense, and a never-ending source of pride for our brave men and women in uniform. Since 9/11, I think folks across East Alabama can agree that we live in a very dangerous world. The best way we can keep our nation safe from harm is by ensuring the Pentagon’s funding levels are sufficient. But budget cuts are having a devastating impact on our military readiness and ability to defend our nation. Being a member of HASC affords me the opportunity to see the important work folks in the Third District are doing to support our nation’s defense. We are home to and close to several military installations like the Anniston Army Depot (ANAD), Ft. Benning and Maxwell Air Force Base. These installations play a crucial role for our national security. ANAD, for instance, is one of the largest employers in East Alabama and the leading depot in the DOD system. In a hearing recently, I had the opportunity to question the Secretary of Defense, Ashton Carter, on what the next steps would be in securing future workloads at the Depot, including the future maintenance and overhaul of the Armored Multi-Purpose Vehicle (AMPV). I will continue to press Secretary Carter on how and when the decision will be made for the Depot Source of Repair (DSOR) for the AMPV, which will replace the M113 class of vehicles currently maintained at ANAD. As Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee, I’ve had the chance to deal directly with many of our most important defense programs meant to defend us against some of our worst enemies’ attacks on our homeland like Iran, Russia and North Korea. My subcommittee has held many hearings recently on funding for programs like our missile defense. During a recent hearing, Vice Admiral Jim Syring, Director, Missile Defense Agency, responded to a question regarding what funding cuts mean for the Department of Defense when it comes to defending our homeland. Part of Syring’s response warned, “…with the development and testing that I see going on with North Korea – very specifically – and the pace and progress that they’re making, I’m in serious jeopardy without those improvements going to NORTHCOM Commander and advising him that the system is over-matched.” ‘Over-matched’ is not a word I ever want associated with our military capabilities. And being outdone by a country that doesn’t play by the rules, like North Korea, is unacceptable. Whether you are in East Alabama, or anywhere in America, our country’s defense budget is not only important to the folks at these facilities but also to the health of our national defense. Rest assured that I will work tirelessly to ensure our defense budget is always sufficient to adequately fund our military so that no adversary on the planet will ever over-match our forces. Sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mikerogers.house.gov, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
03.23.2015	The House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, chaired by Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), will hold two hearings the week of March 23rd. The first hearing will take place Tuesday, March 24th at 3:30 p.m. in 2118 Rayburn House Office Building regarding nuclear-related defense activities at the Department of Energy. The second hearing will take place Wednesday, March 25th at 5:00 p.m. in 2212 Rayburn House Office Building regarding national security space activities. The March 24th hearing will focus on the Fiscal Year 2016 budget request for defense activities at the Department of Energy’s National Nuclear Security Administration and Office of Environmental Management. Chairman Rogers said: “Then-Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel said last November, ‘Our nuclear deterrent plays a critical role in assuring U.S. national security, and it is DOD’s highest priority mission. No other capability we have is more important.’ This is the correct priority, but we must remember that fulfilling the nuclear deterrence mission is the shared responsibility of both DOD and DOE. It is the people, programs and infrastructure in NNSA’s nuclear enterprise that provides our nation with that deterrent. The subcommittee will take a detailed look at NNSA’s budget request and scrub it hard to ensure it is meeting the military’s priorities. We will also strive to find efficiencies, ensure robust accountability and enable success.” WHAT: HASC Strategic Forces Subcommittee Hearing: “Fiscal Year 2016 Atomic Energy Defense Hearing” WHEN: Tuesday, March 24th at 3:30 p.m. WHERE: 2118 Rayburn House Office Building The March 25th hearing will focus on the Fiscal Year 2016 budget request for national security space activities in the Department of Defense. Chairman Rogers said: “Space is the ultimate high ground for our military forces. The Department has been clear that we are at risk of losing our advantage in space. Therefore, we need to strengthen national security space through capabilities development, organization, management, policy and funding. The subcommittee will be closely reviewing the President’s budget request, and will provide the authorization and direction to ensure that we maintain our military advantage in outer space, and, at the same time, looking for opportunities to use public-private partnerships to cost-effectively acquire capabilities the warfighter is relying on.” WHAT: HASC Strategic Forces Subcommittee Hearing: “Fiscal Year 2016 National Security Space Hearing” WHEN: Wednesday, March 25th at 5:00 p.m. WHERE: 2212 Rayburn House Office Building -###-
03.20.2015	The House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, chaired by Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), held a hearing this week on the fiscal year 2016 missile defense budget. The purpose of the hearing was to evaluate our country’s needs as we move forward to ensure we have the proper ballistic missile defense system in place and have the funding to ensure it is a reality. Rogers questioned Vice Admiral Jim Syring, Director, Missile Defense Agency on what the funding cuts for the Department of Defense really mean when it comes to defense of our homeland. Syring’s response is further proof that these irresponsible cuts pose a clear and present danger to the defense of the homeland. The Admiral warned, “[t]o me, now you’re starting to jeopardize our future capability in terms of what we’re able to say to the American people in our ability to defend the homeland. With the development and testing that I see going on with North Korea – very specifically – and the pace and the progress that they’re making, I’m in serious jeopardy without those improvements going to NORTHCOM Commander and advising him that the system is over-matched. That would be the path that we’re on if we don’t do these improvements between now and 2020. The system will be over-matched.” After the hearing, Rogers said he still has serious concerns regarding these funding levels. “This hearing reinforces why I feel so strongly about sufficiently funding the DoD and why I cannot support the House Budget Committee’s current budget proposal until it does just that. The United States of America is on its way to losing its military edge, not just in terms of the ability to project power, but to even defend the homeland. This situation is intolerable,” Rogers said. Witnesses at the hearing included: • Mr. Brian P. McKeon, Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy Department of Defense; • Admiral Bill Gortney, USN Commander North American Aerospace Defense Command and U.S. Northern Command; • Vice Admiral James Syring, USN Director Missile Defense Agency; • Lieutenant General David L. Mann, USA Commander, Joint Functional Component Command for Integrated Missile Defense. Rogers also serves as a senior member on the House Agriculture and House Homeland Security Committees. -###-
03.18.2015	During a House Armed Services Committee (HASC) hearing today titled, “The President’s proposed Authorization for the Use of Military Force against ISIL and the Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Budget Request from the Department of Defense,” Congressman Mike Rogers questioned Defense Secretary Ashton Carter on what the next steps would be in the Depot Source of Repair (DSOR) decision for the Armored Multi-Purpose Vehicle (AMPV). The AMPV is scheduled to replace the M113 class of vehicles that are currently maintained at the Anniston Army Depot. “The Anniston Army Depot is the most efficient and best-performing maintenance and repair facility in the DOD system. Its dedicated workforce provides our warfighters with the best equipment possible. It only makes sense for the AMPV sustainment maintenance and overhaul work to be done in Anniston, and I will continue to push for this to happen,” Rogers said. This week Congressman Rogers also questioned our nation’s readiness and maintenance after 190 layoffs were announced for temporary workers at the Depot earlier this year. Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee and is a senior member of both the Agriculture and Homeland Security Committees. - ### -
03.17.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today after the House Budget Committee introduced the details of their proposal to balance the budget over the next ten years while cutting $5.5 trillion in spending. “While folks across East Alabama are tightening their belts to live within their means, the Federal government should be following suit, but not at the expense of our national security. Recent cuts to our military are devastating readiness and the ability to defend ourselves. Further cuts will unacceptably lead us to take many unnecessary risks with the lives of our men and women in uniform. We live in a dangerous world and have many enemies who want nothing more than to destroy America. As a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, I know firsthand the funding the Pentagon needs to operate and keep our country safe from harm. Upon initial review, despite its many positive recommendations, this budget proposal does not effectively address defense spending and I hope through the legislative process on the House floor, that this proposal will be improved,” Rogers said. - ### -
03.16.2015	The House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, chaired by Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), will hold two hearings the week of March 16th. The first hearing will take place Tuesday, March 17th at 3:30 p.m. in 2118 Rayburn House Office Building regarding national security space launch. The second hearing will take place Thursday, March 19th at 9:00 a.m. in 2118 Rayburn House Office Building regarding the fiscal year 2016 budget for ballistic missile defense activities. The March 17th hearing will focus on ensuring the United States has the necessary national security space launch capabilities to maintain its advantage in space. The subcommittee will examine the current state and future strategy for the Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle program. Chairman Rogers said: “Our national security space capabilities provide tremendous advantage to our warfighters. Without an effective space launch program, and assured access to space, we lose this advantage. We must be smart in partnering with our domestic industry; but, we cannot just rely on them in hopes that they will take care of the national security needs. This is too important. This hearing will examine how the Department of Defense is assuring assured access to space. The hearing will also seek the perspectives of two leading firms in this field.” WHAT: HASC Strategic Forces Subcommittee Hearing: “Assuring Assured Access to Space” WHEN: Tuesday, March 17th at 3:30 p.m. WHERE: 2118 Rayburn House Office Building The purpose of the missile defense budget hearing is to evaluate the ballistic missile threat to the United States, its allies and deployed forces and to consider the ballistic missile defense posture we have and what we need going forward so that we are never playing “catch-up” to the threat. Chairman Rogers said: “North Korea’s recent ballistic missile tests, Iran’s successful space launch test – which is really just a cover for their ICBM program – and Russia and China’s increasingly belligerent behavior are all reminders of why we need a robust missile defense capability. “Unfortunately, since the beginning of this Administration, our missile defenses have at best been neglected, and at worst, given away like a pawn in President Obama’s strategy of appeasing Russia and China. “The only reason the U.S. has a ballistic missile defense system is that a Republican House and Senate forced it on a weak and vacillating President at the end of his term almost 20 years ago. If this President won’t work with us on missile defense, he won’t be allowed to stop us from doing what is needed to defend our nation, our allies and our deployed forces.” WHAT: HASC Strategic Forces Subcommittee Hearing: “Fiscal Year 2016 Missile Defense Hearing” WHEN: Thursday, March 19th at 9:00 a.m. WHERE: 2118 Rayburn House Office Building -###-
03.03.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today after the House of Representatives passed the Senate Amendment to H.R. 240, Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2015, to fund the Department of Homeland Security through the end of Fiscal Year 2015. “I am deeply disappointed the House passed a ‘clean funding bill’ today to fund the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) through the end of this Fiscal Year. The decision to surrender in the fight against President Obama’s illegal executive action further weakens our attempts to restore Constitutional balance to this country,” Rogers said. - ### -
02.26.2015	Today, members of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee led by Chairman Mike Rogers (R-AL), sent President Obama a letter urging him to stop using the United States’ missile defense system as a bargaining chip with countries that don’t play by the rules like China and Russia, and instead to make investments in our missile defense so it stays well-ahead of the ballistic missile threat. This letter comes on the heels of a House Armed Services Committee (HASC) full committee hearing this week titled, “How is DoD is Responding to Emerging Security Challenges in Europe?” Rogers said, “The world is more dangerous than ever, and under the President’s lead-from-behind policy, ballistic missile and nuclear weapons technology is spreading. Russia and China have also concluded the U.S. no longer has leaders interested in maintaining order, leading to aggression, provocation and bullying around the world. And here we find that, yet again, the President has given away our missile defenses to Vladimir Putin. “We now know exactly what the President meant when he offered then-Russian President Medvedev ‘flexibility’ after his ‘last election.’ But the President’s efforts will end this year. Together with the new Senate, we will reverse course on the President’s efforts to undo U.S. missile defenses, which he has clearly never really supported.” The Wall Street Journal recently wrote: “Within days of President Obama releasing his fiscal 2016 defense budget this month, Pakistan tested a nuclear-capable Ra’ad short-range missile, Russia announced plans to test a new RS-26 intercontinental ballistic missile, Iran launched a satellite into space and North Korea blasted five antiship missiles into the Sea of Japan. Each volley underscored the bad news that Mr. Obama’s budget again shortchanges U.S. missile defenses” and that missile defense will be “slashed 25% in real dollars over the Obama Presidency” based on his budget requests. The Journal’s Editorial also quoted from a recent book (National Insecurity, by David Rothkopf): “John Kerry had his first meeting as Secretary of State with a man who was to become one of the international leaders with whom he worked most closely, Sergei Lavrov. Both sides dutifully reported the discussions were constructive, and by March 15, 2013, in the latest twist in the schizophrenic U.S. approach to its missile defense plans, the Obama administration effectively cancelled the final phase of the European-based defense system. According to a senior NSC staffer, this was ‘due largely to the fact that it had become an impediment to every area of important cooperation [with Russia] we had going or might need, including both Iran and Syria.’” -###-
02.26.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers recently signed a letter condemning the Obama Administration's push for members of the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) to impose stringent conditions on the public financing on overseas coal-fired power plants, specifically the U.S-British proposal that would allow OECD countries to consider financing for nations with no other economically feasible alternatives. Congressman Rogers said, "Coal continues to prove itself as an affordable and reliable source of energy for both residential and industrial needs. The Administration's proposal would inhibit many nations from utilizing the best option to ensure continued growth and economic prosperity. This is another example of President Obama’s ongoing war on coal." The letter, led by Congressmen Harold Rogers (KY) and David McKinley (WV) cited a recent study from the University of Tokyo that reported China is the current leader in public financing in the developing work. It also noted that the Administration's actions would further impede OECD countries from aiding developing nations. Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
02.25.2015	As I made my way around East Alabama during the District Work Week, one of the issues I heard about the most at my “Congress on Your Corner” events was the threat from the group known as the Islamic State (ISIS, ISIL or IS). Folks were very concerned about the utter brutality shown by this radical terrorist group. I am very concerned as well. With the 24/7 news coverage, we are all too familiar with the barbaric actions of this group. They have executed Americans and other innocent individuals from around the world by beheading and even burned a Jordanian pilot alive. Most recently, we learned of the beheadings of 21 Egyptian Christians. The Islamic State killed them for one reason – because of their faith. The Islamic State does not play by any rules when it comes to the treatment of the individuals they hold captive. They are a terrorist group who must be stopped and stopped soon. The Obama Administration is finally starting to give more than lip service to the need for a more coherent strategy to confront the Islamic State. This week, the House Armed Services Committee (HASC), which I am a part of, will also hold a full committee hearing focused on the President’s request for Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF). While I believe this request for Authorization is a necessary step in the right direction, it does not outline a well thought out strategy for success. We can’t mistake action for a strategy. Arab allies like Jordan, Egypt and the UAE are starting to take the fight to the Islamic State. The U.S. should support our allies and deliver the unique brand of American justice to the terrorist group. What we as Americans must do for now is remain vigilant as we go about our daily routines and remember that we are dealing with a group like we have never dealt with before. The Islamic State is barbaric and radical, and eliminating this group will not be a short or simple task. I’d like to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mikerogers.house.gov, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
02.20.2015	During his visit to Lee County today, Congressman Mike Rogers held a “Congress on Your Corner” event in Opelika at City Hall to hear back from folks across Lee County and find out what is on their minds. At the “Congress on Your Corner” event, Rogers gave a Washington update discussing recent votes in the House and his excitement about the new Republican-led Senate. Rogers also talked about how burdensome Obamacare has been for the hard-working families across East Alabama, the next steps in fighting against President Obama’s illegal executive amnesty and highlighted some of his work on his three committees. “I love being back home in Alabama and visiting with folks across the district,” Rogers said. “I appreciate everyone who took the time to come and express their concerns and am looking forward to taking those concerns back to Washington.” Rogers serves as Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee and is a senior member of the House Agriculture and House Homeland Security Committees. -#-#-#-
02.20.2015	During his visit to Clay County this week, Congressman Mike Rogers spoke about the importance of creating and maintaining good paying jobs throughout Clay County and all of East Alabama. Rogers was in town to visit Integrity Cabinets in Ashland and speak to the Clay County Chamber Annual Meeting among a few other stops in the area. During his time spent at Integrity Cabinets, Rogers reiterated how important small businesses are to our local economies. “Small businesses are the heartbeat of our local economies and I was pleased to see the good work they are doing in Ashland,” Rogers said after the visit. At the Clay County Chamber Annual Meeting, Rogers gave a Washington update and spoke about the burden Obamacare has put on folks across East Alabama, next steps in fighting against President Obama’s illegal executive amnesty and highlighted some of his work on his three committees. “I love being back home in Alabama and visiting with folks across the district,” Rogers said. “I appreciate everyone who took the time to come and express their concerns.” Rogers serves as Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee and is a senior member of the House Agriculture and House Homeland Security Committees. -#-#-#-
02.19.2015	During his visit to Tallapoosa County this week, Congressman Mike Rogers spoke about the importance of creating and maintaining good paying jobs throughout Tallapoosa County and all of East Alabama. Rogers was in town to receive an update from the Alexander City Chamber of Commerce on their current campaign, held a “Congress on Your Corner” event in Dadeville and toured AES Mechanical in Tallassee. At the “Congress on Your Corner” event, Rogers gave a Washington update and spoke about the burden Obamacare has put on folks across East Alabama, next steps in fighting against President Obama’s illegal executive amnesty and highlighted some of his work on his three committees. At AES Mechanical, Rogers reiterated the importance of small businesses across East Alabama. “Small businesses make up the backbone of our local economies and I was pleased to see the good work they are doing in Tallassee,” Rogers said after the visit. “I love being back home in Alabama and visiting with folks across the district,” Rogers said. “I appreciate everyone who took the time to come and express their concerns.” Rogers serves as Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee and is a senior member of the House Agriculture and House Homeland Security Committees. -#-#-#-
02.19.2015	The House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee, chaired by Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), will hold a hearing regarding Fiscal Year 2016 budget request for House Armed Services Committee Strategic Forces (HASC-SF). It will take place Thursday, February 26th at 2:00 p.m. in 2118 Rayburn House Office Building. The purpose of this hearing is to conduct oversight on the Administration’s Fiscal Year 2016 budget request concerning United States strategic forces, including missile defenses, national security space systems and capabilities and Department of Defense and Department of Energy nuclear weapons programs. Chairman Rogers said: “The world is as dangerous as it ever has been. Russia and China are on the march. Our allies are worried and lack assurance that the United States is up to the task of maintaining peace and stability. Red line after red line has been crossed without consequence. “At the bedrock of United States strength is our nuclear deterrent. And if deterrence fails, we must have advanced and robust missile defenses to protect the American people and their allies and national security space systems that will allow U.S. service men and women to have information dominance in every circumstance. “The President’s budget request is just that: a request. This hearing kicks off the Congress’ work to decide what capabilities and policies should be in place for the United States military. For 53 years, the National Defense Authorization Act has provided for the armed forces of the United States; we start the process to deliver the 54th at a perilous time. We must do our duty and send the world’s dictators a message that the United States will never settle for a policy of “leading from behind.” WHAT: Subcommittee Hearing WHEN: Thursday, February 26, 2015 at 2:00 p.m. WHERE: 2118 Rayburn House Office Building -###-
02.18.2015	During his visit to Talladega County today, Congressman Mike Rogers held a “Congress on Your Corner” event at the Sylacauga Chamber of Commerce to hear directly from folks in the area and what is on their minds. Rogers was in town not only to host the “Congress on Your Corner” event but to tour the Sylacauga Municipal Airport among other stops in the county. At the “Congress on Your Corner” event, Rogers gave a Washington update and spoke about the burden Obamacare has put on folks across East Alabama, next steps in fighting against President Obama’s illegal executive amnesty and highlighted some of his work on his three committees. “I love being back home in Alabama and visiting with folks across the district,” Rogers said. “I appreciate everyone who took the time to come and express their concerns and I look forward to taking these concerns straight to Washington.” Rogers serves as Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee and is a senior member of the House Agriculture and House Homeland Security Committees. -#-#-#-
02.11.2015	Now that the 114th Congress is in full swing, the Republican-led House and Senate have been working hard to get America back on the right path. Along with my colleagues, I am continuing the fight against President Obama’s big government agenda. Last week, the House passed, with my support, another bill to repeal Obamacare, with the charge led by Alabama’s own Congressman Bradley Byrne. Obamacare continues to weigh heavy on hardworking folks across East Alabama, and we will continue to work to find a way to lighten the burden. The House will also pass the final version of the Keystone XL Pipeline Act so the bill can go to President Obama’s desk for his signature. This legislation will approve construction of the pipeline that will run from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico creating good-paying jobs along the way and helping America become more energy independent. Unfortunately, President Obama has threatened to veto this important, bipartisan bill. I hope instead he will see the merits in this legislation instead of playing politics with it, as he has done his entire Presidency. The end of this month will include the next step in the fight against President Obama’s effort to rewrite immigration law with the expiration of funding for the Department of Homeland Security. I will continue to fight against the president’s illegal executive amnesty and work to find a solution to our immigration crisis. This February is also a special one for our state because it not only marks Black History Month, but also is the 50th Anniversary of the march in Selma. Along with the entire Alabama Delegation, I am cosponsoring legislation to honor those who participated in the march in Selma, Alabama, 50 years ago with the Congressional Gold Medal. These brave men and women who marched that day should be honored for standing up for what was right. I am proud to have the opportunity to recognize them. I’d like to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mikerogers.house.gov, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
02.04.2015	Chairman Mike Rogers (R-AL), Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee, made the following statement today after Iran’s successful launch of an advanced missile that put a satellite in orbit this week. “In light of the President’s world view along with his almost $4 trillion in spending proposed this week, I am deeply concerned about his priorities. I cannot idly sit back and watch while he continues to recklessly weaken our military. “While rogue states like Iran develop sophisticated ballistic missile systems and space satellite programs, President Obama continues to turn his back on any type of long-term strategy for our military and national defense. Missile defense, in which Alabama plays a critical role, has been a particular target of this Administration and the current budget request reflects that the President – who famously once stated ‘I do not support a missile defense system’ – hasn’t changed his tune. “This is also a deeply disturbing development to our friend and ally Israel. Iran’s continued threats to destroy Israel along with their advances in missile technology should be of the utmost concern to the United States. Instead of making it a priority to defend one of our strongest allies, President Obama coddles Iran, cultivates a distant relationship with Israel and continues to recommend budgets to degrade our own missile defenses. “The past six years of damage the President has wrought to our missile defenses is breathtaking. From the arbitrary slashing-and-burning of the Missile Defense Agency budget to the multiple concessions to Russia that have left the U.S. and its allies more vulnerable to the opposition to an East Coast site for launching defensive weapons against our enemies even when the military has made clear its value to defense of the homeland. “The President may be in the White House for two more years, but, as far as I’m concerned, he’s already a lame duck when it comes to his defense budget requests. I will continue to fight to strengthen our military, and to support policies that protect our security and those of our closest allies like Israel, which remain in harm’s way of enemy states like Iran.” -###-
02.03.2015	Chairman Mike Rogers (R-AL), Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee, made the following statement today after questioning Lieutenant General Vincent R. Stewart, USMC, Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency on Russia’s ongoing lawlessness, including concerning the 2002 Open Skies Treaty. During the House Armed Services Full Committee Hearing on “World Wide Threats,” Rogers asked General Stewart, “Can you say anything about how Russia… is using their Open Skies flights over United States and as the principle intelligence officer for the Secretary of Defense, can you tell us if that concerns you and what are those concerns?” Lt. Gen Stewart responded, “The Open Skies construct was designed for a different era. I am very concerned about how it is applied today and I’d love to talk about in a closed hearing.” “The threat posed by Russia seems to be clear to everyone but the President. When Russia is invading its neighbors and cheating on arms control treaties left-and-right, it is a mystery to me why the President would continue to let the Russian Federation put U.S. security at risk as he is doing with the Open Skies Treaty. Congress will have to step in if the President will continue to turn a blind eye to Putin’s threats,” Rogers said. -###-
01.30.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers invited high school students across East Alabama today to participate in the 34th Annual Congressional Art Contest, which will be held at the Isabel Anderson Comer Museum and Art Center in Sylacauga in May. Over the past 33 years, the Congressional Art Contest has been held in 400 Congressional districts across the country for high school students. Visitors walking through the underground tunnel from the Cannon House Office Building to the United States Capitol can view the artwork from each winner of the participating Congressional districts on exhibit along the corridor. “The Third Congressional District Art Contest provides high school students the chance to showcase their artistic skills and have the exciting opportunity to have their artwork on display for a year in our nation’s capital. I always enjoy the art contest each year and I hope we have students from all 13 counties in the Third Congressional District participate,” Rogers said. This year the judges will select the top five pieces of artwork which will then be posted on Congressman Rogers’ official Facebook page so constituents can help vote on their favorite piece of art. The artwork with most "likes" will win First Place. The overall winner will win a trip to Washington, D.C., and all contestants with artwork in the top five will win a cash prize. To learn more, visit www.mikerogers.house.gov and click on the Art Contest icon or call the Washington office at (202)-225-3261. - ### -
01.28.2015	My faith is central to my existence – as it is to most of us across East Alabama. While I believe Israel’s defense and our steadfast support of its people is central to my faith as a Christian, I also believe it’s central to who we are as Americans. I consistently hear how important Israel is to East Alabamians for many reasons – religious, historic, defense-related. Most Americans share this powerful connection and it should not be denied by U.S. policy makers. These are incredibly tough times for our friend and ally in the Middle East, and it is vital that America does not turn its back on Israel in its ongoing hour of need. As most of us know, Israel is the only democracy in the volatile Middle East. The United States is connected both historically and culturally to Israel and her security is linked closely to our national security. From my view, the direction of U.S. foreign policy toward Israel in recent years has been terribly disheartening. Instead of treating Israel as a friend and ally, a colder and more distant relationship has been allowed to develop. A perfect example of this is the current U.S. policy toward Iran. Their radical regime is desperately trying to develop a nuclear weapon. The Ayatollah, Iran’s supreme leader, has stated that Israel should be destroyed. But in his State of the Union Speech recently, President Obama warned Congress not to get involved with his Administration’s negotiations with Iran and even threatened to veto a tough Iran sanctions bill working its way through Congress. I also was disappointed, but not surprised, to learn President Obama will not be meeting with Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu during his upcoming visit to the U.S. As Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee, I have had the unique opportunity to work closely with Israel on their Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system. This system serves as one of Israel’s main defenses against hostile rocket and mortar attacks like what they have faced most recently from terrorist groups like Hamas. I’m proud to note that production of Iron Dome parts, including on the Tamir interceptor, will begin to occur in Alabama because of bipartisan efforts I have led to begin co-production of this vital defense system. This is one of many important defense-related projects in our state, but I also believe it is particularly reflective of our support for Israel and our shared values. I look forward to hearing from Prime Minister Netanyahu when he addresses a joint session of Congress this spring, and will continue to fight for and stand with all Americans to defend our great ally Israel. As always, I’d like to hear from you on this or any issue. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mikerogers.house.gov, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
01.22.2015	Today, leaders of the House Armed Services Committee, Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL) and Congressman Mike Turner (R-OH), urged Secretary Hagel and Secretary Kerry to update the U.S. defense policy and force posture in Europe and respond assertively to President Putin’s ongoing threats to deploy nuclear weapons in Crimea. “We believe the U.S. must immediately take actions to respond to Russia’s threats to European security and to change President Putin’s calculus,” the lawmakers wrote. “In our opinion, the Administration must immediately move to update the U.S. defense policy and force posture in Europe. These policies, which have not been updated to reflect that Russia has no interest in being a partner to the West, and, in fact, views the West as a military threat, were naive at inception and are simply dangerous at present.” Congressman Mike Rogers, Chairman of the House Armed Service’s Strategic Forces Subcommittee: “You don’t deal with a thug like Vladimir Putin by asking nicely. He breaks treaties, he invades countries and then stations his nuclear forces on their soil, and he cozies up to terrorist regimes like Assad’s, North Korea’s Kim Jong Un, and the mullahs in Tehran. What’s next? Who’s next? Concessions on missile defense and arms control only emboldened the former KGB officer. We cannot continue to wait for the Administration to wake up and see that then- Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s ‘reset' was a failure from day one. I have said repeatedly that I will work with the Administration if they show me they are taking these matters seriously. For months I’ve been asking the Administration how they will prevent Putin from stationing his nuclear forces on Ukrainian soil in Crimea. The Administration has no plan; the security of our allies cannot afford a continued delay.” Congressman Mike Turner, Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces: “Despite the fact that the President’s ‘reset’ with Russia has been over for quite some time, the defense policy of the United States and our strategic capabilities in Europe still reflect an outdated and dangerously misguided view of Russia. Putin’s position that he has both the right and the intention to deploy nuclear weapons in the Ukrainian territory of Crimea has further escalated his ongoing pattern of aggression and proven his flagrant disregard for international agreements and treaties. In order to change the outcome, we must face the reality in front of us: Putin is an adversary of the United States. It is imperative that President Obama, Secretary Kerry, Secretary Hagel and the rest of the Administration abandon the false narrative of what they want Russia to be and shift their focus, strategy, and posture to what Putin's actions are.” -###-
01.20.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today in advance of President Obama’s State of the Union Address that will take place tonight. “Contrary to what President Obama wants to believe, across America and in rural economies like East Alabama, America’s economy is still not strong. Working Americans are worried about their jobs and families are concerned about their futures. They are also very concerned by President Obama’s use of illegal executive orders to go around Congress and rewrite laws. “I would like to think President Obama will stand before Congress and the nation tonight and say he is willing to work with Republican majorities in the House and Senate on policies that could help get our economy back on track to help put hard-working Americans back in good jobs and fix our broken immigration system. Unfortunately, I don’t think that’s what he’ll say. “Tonight’s speech is shaping up to be more of the same – President Obama’s continued push of an agenda that will keep government big, spending high and Washington meddling too much in our day to day lives. I just don’t believe that’s an agenda that working Americans want,” Rogers said. - ### -
01.16.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today in advance of Monday’s national day of remembrance recognizing the life and legacy of the late Civil Rights leader, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. “Dr. King had a dream so big that it would go on to inspire Americans today as much as it did back in 1963 when he first gave his ‘I Have a Dream’ speech. His vision of equality for all is a vision America still strives for. Let us all honor and remember Dr. King today and let the life he led be an example for us to follow,” Rogers said. - ### -
01.14.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today after the House of Representatives passed the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act. “Today, with my strong support, the House passed legislation to block President Obama’s executive amnesty plan. President Obama’s immigration plans are both unconstitutional and illegal, and I believe Congress must do all it can to stop them while also working to secure our borders. I hope the Republican-controlled Senate will also pass it and send it to the President’s desk,” Rogers said. - ### -
01.14.2015	With the beginning of the new year and the start of a new Congress, the work Washington faces is no small task. From helping create more jobs to making health care more affordable for working families to finding solutions to our illegal immigration crisis, Congress has its hands full. For the first time in eight years, the Senate is now controlled by Republicans, so conservative legislation passed by the House of Representatives will stop collecting dust on former Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid’s desk. Now, Majority Leader Mitch McConnell actually has a chance to pass these bills in the Senate and send them to the President. As Congress was sworn in in January, the first priority of the House was to address one of the many Obamacare problems: that it’s hurting workers’ take home pay by forcing employers to cut their hours. The Save American Workers Act would change that. Obamacare’s definition of a full-time employee is 30 hours a week and this bill would make it 40, reducing the chances that employers would cut employee hours just to comply with all of Obamacare’s burdensome mandates. But I remain absolutely convinced that the only way to truly fix Obamacare is to repeal it. Congress will try, again, to do that and I will support it. Next up, gas and energy prices. Every single one of us across East Alabama has welcomed the recent drop in gas prices. It’s been a boost in the wallet and a relief in times when wages have been stagnant. But gas won’t stay low forever – it never does. That’s why the House passed the Keystone XL Pipeline Act. This bill would get that pipeline started, which would run from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico and would help America become more energy independent while also creating more good-paying jobs. How President Obama could threaten to veto it is just beyond common sense. There is also President Obama’s executive amnesty order, which I believe is unconstitutional and illegal. The House is planning to pass a bill to stop it and help deal with sealing our borders. Let’s not forget threats overseas. Just look at the attack by terrorists in Paris. The slaughter of innocent people is tragic and our hearts ache for their losses. That’s why we must continue to stand strong in our national defense and security at home. I will continue my chairmanship of the House Armed Services subcommittee that oversees our nation’s nuclear weapons, missile defense and space programs. As Chairman, I plan to keep pressure on foreign leaders like Russia’s Vladimir Putin, who continues his aggressive push into European territory like Crimea and Ukraine. All that said, I am honored to fight for you. Let’s hope President Obama will work with Congress to help get our country back on track. I’d like to hear from you. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mikerogers.house.gov, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
01.09.2015	Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee, made the following statement today congratulating the U.S. Navy and Naval Reactors program on the 60th anniversary of the USS Nautilus being underway with nuclear power. “Today we celebrate the 60th anniversary of the USS Nautilus first being underway under nuclear power. That day marked the beginning of a new era for the U.S. Navy and we remember not only that historic achievement, but also the 60 years of unparalleled nuclear safety, technical brilliance and operational excellence in our Naval Reactors program and nuclear Navy. I extend my heartfelt congratulations to Admiral Greenert, Admiral Richardson and the many thousands of men and women who have contributed to this tremendous success.” -###-
12.15.2014	East Alabama Congressman Mike Rogers (R) announced today that he will continue in 2015 as Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee’s Strategic Forces subcommittee. Rogers says as Chairman he plans to keep up the pressure on foreign leaders like Russia’s president Vladimir Putin, who continues his aggressive push into European territory like Crimea and Ukraine, including illegally seizing the territory of Crimea. Rogers said the panel’s work is critical for keeping the nation’s defenses strong in a dangerous world. “I am honored to be continuing my work as Chairman of this subcommittee and plan to make sure we have the strategic capabilities in place and available to provide for our national security and that of our allies. It is Congress' responsibility under our Constitution to provide for the armed forces, and I intend to see that ours remain the best trained and equipped in the world,” Rogers said. The Strategic Forces subcommittee has jurisdiction over the nation’s nuclear weapons and missile defense and space programs, as well as Department of Energy national security programs. As the panel’s Chairman, Rogers says he has been the leading advocate in the House for the nation’s nuclear forces. Many of these space and missile programs, so critical to our national defense, are important elements to Alabama’s defense based economy. In addition, Rogers has been a strong critic of Russia’s violations with the INF Treaty and will continue to press on this issue in the next Congress. He has also been leading efforts to introduce public-private partnerships in areas such as commercial satellite communications acquisitions, which could achieve significant cost-savings for the Department of Defense and the U.S. taxpayer. -###-
12.05.2014	The House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee, chaired by Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), will hold a joint subcommittee hearing with Chairman Ted Poe (R-TX) of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade titled “Russian Arms Control Cheating and the Administration’s Response.” It will take place Wednesday, December 10th at 2:00p.m. in 2118 Rayburn House Office Building. The purpose of this hearing is to conduct oversight on Administration responses to Russia’s record of violation and noncompliance with its arms control obligations. Earlier this year, after years of pressure from Congress, including by Chairman Rogers, the Administration finally acknowledged Russia is violating the Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces Treaty. The FY15 National Defense Authorization Act, recently passed by the House of Representatives, included legislative provisions authored by Chairman Rogers to begin to deal with that violation and to ensure U.S. national security and to assure our allies. Chairman Rogers said: “For the Obama Administration, making agreements with Russia has been the easy part. Compelling Vladimir Putin to abide by these agreements has been a different matter altogether. “If the Administration seriously confronts Russia’s cheating on agreements like the INF treaty, Chemical and Biological Weapons Conventions and the agreements related to halting nuclear testing, they will have my support and the support of the Armed Services Committee. “If, however, the Administration continues to choose to ignore Putin’s dangerous and aggressive behavior, they’re going to have a very uncomfortable last two years.” Chairman Poe said: “Russia’s clear violation of the INF Treaty and blatant disregard for international norms is the new status quo. Putin cannot be allowed to continue to violate landmarkarms control treaties without severe consequences. I hope that we can move past the finger-wagging stage and finally show the Russians that their actions will have serious repercussions. I look forward to hearing what option this Administration has drawn up to punish Putin.” WHAT: Joint Subcommittee Hearing: “Russian Arms Control Cheating and the Administration’s Responses” WHEN: Wednesday, December 10th at 2:00 p.m. WHERE: 2118 Rayburn House Office Building Witness List: The Honorable Rose Gottemoeller Under Secretary for Arms Control and International Security U.S. Department of State The Honorable Brian McKeon Principal Deputy Under Secretary for Policy U.S. Department of Defense *Note: Witnesses may be added -###-
12.03.2014	Folks across East Alabama are in the Christmas spirit, giving both tangible gifts and the gifts of their time to those in need. During the Holiday season, I like to highlight some of the generosity of people across the Third District. The following examples are just a few of the inspiring people and organizations we have in East Alabama. For some families, the back to school season brings the financial stress of buying school supplies. In Ragland, Ms. Eleanor Clinkscales helps ease the pain for some students in need by partnering with local church groups to outfit 100 students with all of their school supplies. In Cleburne County, the Heflin-based group Helping Every Area Resident to Succeed along with Wedowee-based Reaching Out International provided 600 families with much-needed groceries – all in one day! Opelika’s Storybook Farm opened a new riding arena in October. The organization serves more than 800 special needs participants every year by allowing the children to participate in games and activities at no cost. The activities aren’t just fun for the children – they also build muscle strength, strengthen fine motor skills and teach compassion. One Saturday in October, over 500 volunteers from Way 2 Serve Ministries served Lee and Macon Counties through an event called My Jerusalem. My Jerusalem was composed of 31 different projects, including repairing front decks, building wheelchair ramps and throwing block parties. The event is held twice a year. In Montgomery and Macon Counties, HandsOn River Region, is gearing up for their 34th year of Christmas Clearinghouse. Christmas Clearinghouse allows individuals, businesses and organizations to adopt families in need. Through this program, area families are ensured they don’t have to go without at Christmas. Randolph Park Elementary students used the Iron Bowl as inspiration to collect canned food for the Anniston Soup Bowl. The students donated in the name of their favorite team, and the winning team got to wear regular clothes for a day! The students collected a total of 650 cans of food. May these examples remind us how we should live our lives every day. Merry Christmas to you and your families! Please sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
11.24.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers announced today that the deadline for applying for summer internships in his offices will be February 13, 2015. The internship program is designed to offer select college students a hands-on opportunity to learn about the legislative process, as well as the day-to-day operations of a Congressional office. To be considered for an internship, students must submit a current resume, cover letter and short writing sample to the Congressman’s intern coordinator. Please visit http://mike-rogers.house.gov/constituent-services/internships for more information, or call Rogers’ Washington, D.C. office at 202.225.3261. -###-
11.20.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks in response to President Obama’s primetime address to the nation on his plans for an Executive Order regarding amnesty. “President Obama’s decision to essentially legalize up to five million illegal immigrants by Executive Order is nothing short of an unprecedented presidential overreach. This immigration crisis is of the president’s own making, and in signing this order, he has significantly escalated it further. “President Obama blames Congress for allegedly forcing him to take this extreme step because Congress did not pass his proposed comprehensive immigration reform bill. This is nonsense. The American people want the president to work with Congress to solve our immigration crisis, first, by securing our borders – not to govern by executive action. “Our nation faces many challenges, including an economy that simply is not creating enough good paying jobs. With today’s executive action, the president has made finding common ground on so many of those issues all the more difficult.” Rogers serves as a senior member on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress, as well as the Armed Services Committee and Committee on Agriculture. -###-
11.14.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee, commented today on the Department of Defense’s release of the results of its Nuclear Enterprise Review, saying, “The commitments made today by Secretary Hagel to finally bring our nuclear forces the attention and resources they so sorely need is a very positive step. As other nuclear powers around the world have continued to grow and modernize their nuclear forces, the U.S. has taken a 25 year nuclear hiatus. I welcome Secretary Hagel's commitment to put U.S. nuclear forces—and the sailors and airmen who operate them—at the top of our defense priority list.” Rogers also expressed caution that the new focus must be reinforced with long-term action and investment, saying, “We’ve seen commitments to reinvigorate our nuclear forces before. Unfortunately, those efforts were not sustained or fully implemented. As Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee, I will ensure we do not lose focus again; my subcommittee will work with Secretary Hagel to make sure this review is different. Our airmen and sailors who work this mission everyday deserve nothing less.” Rogers also highlighted the continued dysfunction and deficiencies in the other part of the nation’s nuclear enterprise within the Department of Energy, saying, “While this is a welcome focus from the Secretary of Defense, the Department of Energy’s nuclear enterprise continues to suffer from chronic mismanagement, dysfunction and bureaucracy. We cannot fix the pointy-end of the spear and let the handle continue to rot. I hope the Administration will undertake a similar bottom-to-top review of the Department of Energy’s nuclear enterprise and develop a long-term plan to get it the attention and resources it needs to delivery for the military.” -###-
11.13.2014	As Congress works to wrap up its work for this year and prepares for Republican control of the House and Senate next year, you can guarantee there will be new and refreshed leadership on many of the issues folks are most concerned about. Over the past several years, so many important pieces of legislation that would have helped hard-working families just collected dust in the Senate, such as H.R. 3, the Northern Route Approval Act, which would approve construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline. Soon, it’s going to be time for conservatives to work to make things happen on issues folks care about. As I made my way across East Alabama late this fall, I kept hearing the same concerns: for example, folks are worried about Obamacare and how it will affect their small businesses and their families. I also heard a lot of folks ask about immigration reform. People are concerned that not enough good-paying jobs are being created. Many folks are also uncertain about America’s leadership around the world, including how the terrorist group known as the Islamic State or ISIL continues to threaten Americans and our allies. I also hear ongoing concerns about the constant threats toward Israel, one of our strongest allies. These issues, like so many others that weigh on the minds of folks across the Third District, have only been made worse by the lack of leadership. I don’t blame them for worrying one bit, but I am optimistic about our future. With renewed opportunities to bring about real change and a stronger than ever desire from Americans for a leaner, more efficient and effective Federal government, I plan to continue to fight for the interests of East Alabamians – all East Alabamians, even if we don’t agree, just as I always have. Earlier this month on November 11th, we honored our nation’s brave men and women who have served our country in uniform. Veterans Day is an example of what makes this country great – supporting and working on behalf of the Veterans across East Alabama is something we all believe in. We all want to ensure our Veterans receive the care they need and deserve. Making sure our Veterans receive that care, like so many of these other concerns, is about leadership. That’s what’s been lacking from the very top in Washington. And that’s why our Constitution guarantees our right to vote, so Americans can make their voices heard. America is the greatest country on earth and we are lucky to be its citizens. I am deeply grateful for the honor to continue to fight for your interests, and look forward as always to hearing from you. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
11.13.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today after the announcement of a deal to cut carbon emissions was made between President Obama and China’s President Xi Jingping. “President Obama’s plan could put thousands of jobs on the line in Alabama’s coal industry. The president’s latest agreement with China could further hurt our state’s economy, destroy more of these good-paying jobs and increase energy rates for working families and small businesses. This agreement forces the U.S. into draconian cuts while China is asked to do almost nothing for the next 16 years. President Obama needs to focus his efforts on policies that help create jobs and work with Republicans in the United States Congress instead of the Communist government in China. This recent agreement with China is just not good for Alabama,” Rogers said. -###-
11.12.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today in honor of November 11th - Veterans Day. “The brave men and women who have served our country in uniform are honored today. These Veterans have selflessly served and sacrificed for our everyday freedoms and our gratitude goes out to them and their families. “Today, as a country, we honor our Veterans, remembering those who’ve paid the ultimate sacrifice and praying for their families. God bless our Veterans and God bless America.” -###-
10.22.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers reminded any graduating high school seniors for 2015 interested in receiving a Congressional nomination to attend one of the U.S. Service Academies should be completing applications, which are available at http://mike-rogers.house.gov/constituent-services/academy-nominations, and mailing them to one of his district offices soon. To be considered for a nomination for appointment to any of the service academies, including the U.S. Military Academy, the Naval Academy, the Air Force Academy, the Coast Guard Academy and the Merchant Marines Academy, seniors must complete Rogers’ application materials and mail the completed packets to one of Rogers’ district offices. The applications can be sent to: Congressman Mike Rogers Attn: Service Academy Application 1129 Noble Street, Suite 104 Anniston, AL 36201 or Congressman Mike Rogers Attn: Service Academy Application 1819 Pepperell Parkway, Suite, 203 Opelika, AL 36801 The deadline for receipt of these applications is December 15, 2014. Please visit www.mike-rogers.house.gov/constituent-services/academy-nominations with any questions, or call Rogers’ Washington, D.C. office at 202.225.3261. -###-
10.17.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers visited Tallapoosa County today speaking to the Alexander City Kiwanis Club, touring the Edward Bell Career Tech Center and meeting with the Lake Martin Economic Development Alliance. Rogers also met with Dadeville Mayor Joe Smith. At Kiwanis, Rogers spoke about issues our country faces both here and abroad. These included the illegal immigration crisis at our Southwest border and the ongoing threats to Americans posed by the Islamic State terrorists, also known as ISIL. Rogers in particular advocated for a consistent, clear and long term plan to destroy ISIL. “We must defeat this evil terrorist group as they continue to extend their reach and threaten more Americans. What these terrorists have done thus far is unconscionable, and America must have a focused and long-term military strategy to annihilate this radical movement,” Rogers said after the Kiwanis meeting. Pivoting to issues like education and the economy, Rogers said he was pleased to tour the Edward Bell Tech Center and reiterated how important the training offered is for our young people. “Programs like those offered at Edward Bell keep our communities and young people focused on education and jobs and I was proud to see what a great job the faculty there does. This is another shining example of ways we can help prepare our young leaders of the future,” he said. Rogers also met with the Lake Martin Economic Development Alliance to get an update on Lake Martin’s role in driving the local economy. This afternoon, Rogers also visited with Dadeville Mayor Joe Smith and Clerk Mike Gardner to discuss issues facing the city. Rogers thanked Mayor Smith for hosting him and taking time out of his busy day to meet. Rogers serves as a senior member of the House Agriculture, Armed Services and Homeland Security Committees. -###-
10.14.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers visited Macon County today stopping by the Tuskegee Senior Citizen Center, touring Halla Climate Systems and meeting with Shorter Mayor Willie Mae Powell. At Tuskegee Senior Center, Rogers visited with local seniors about concerns they may have and reminded them about the upcoming Medicare open enrollment season which runs October 15th through December 7th. After leaving Tuskegee, Rogers traveled to Shorter to tour Halla Climate Systems of Alabama. Rogers said he was pleased to see the growing employment opportunities Halla provides to the folks in Macon County and what a great job its employees do in supporting East Alabama’s automotive economy. “The automotive industry in Alabama continues to grow and help drive our state’s economy. It is companies like Halla that help bring good-paying jobs to the state, which is a win-win for Macon County and Alabama,” Rogers said. During his tour Rogers also talked about Obamacare and the affect it is having on small businesses and hard-working families across East Alabama and the country. This afternoon, Rogers visited with Shorter Mayor Willie Mae Powell to discuss issues facing the town. Rogers thanked Mayor Powell for taking time out of her busy schedule to visit with him. Rogers serves as a senior member of the House Agriculture, Armed Services and Homeland Security Committees. ###
10.08.2014	East Alabama Congressman Mike Rogers visited Lee County Tuesday to speak with the Opelika Rotary Club and give folks an update on current legislative issues before Congress. Rogers addressed ongoing concerns including terrorism by the Islamic State or ISIL, Obamacare’s impact on jobs and the many House-passed jobs bills collecting dust as they now sit in the Senate. “Our nation is facing very challenging times both abroad and at home. We must defeat the evil terrorist group known as the Islamic State, even as it expands its reach and threatens more Americans. The horrors we’ve all witnessed by these terrorists is sickening, and we must have a long-term military strategy to ensure their destruction. In the coming years, it is critical that Congress provides our warfighters the resources needed to be successful while ensuring the Department of Defense spends limited taxpayer dollars as wisely as possible. “At home, the big government policies like Obamacare continue to intrude on our everyday lives and threaten jobs,” Rogers said shortly after the meeting. Rogers says he deeply appreciates the chance to speak with East Alabamians about the challenges they face and concerns they may have. “I would like to thank the Opelika Rotary Club for having meand deeply appreciate the chance to hear directly people’s concerns,” he said. “I will continue to do all I can to fight for the interests of Lee County and the rest of East Alabama,” Rogers added. Rogers serves as a senior member of the House Armed Services, Agriculture and Homeland Security committees. - ### -
09.30.2014	East Alabama Congressman Mike Rogers, who is Chairman of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee on the House Armed Services Committee, praised today’s announcement that component parts for Israel’s Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system – one of Israel’s primary defense systems against hostile rocket attacks from terrorist groups like Hamas – will soon begin in the United States, with a work site currently planned for Alabama. Work under the nearly $150 million contract was announced this morning and will produce parts for the Iron Dome interceptor rocket known as the Tamir. Rogers says significant work under the contract will occur in Huntsville, Alabama, among other locations in the United States, and will continue the long track record of U.S.-Israeli co-production of missile and rocket defense systems. “We must always work to help defend Israel and her people, and this announcement comes as further proof of our commitment to that mission, while also helping provide more good-paying jobs here in the U.S. Iron Dome is critical in combating enemy rockets and mortars fired into Israel. Today’s contract announcement shows just how closely the U.S. and Israel are joined in the bilateral security relationship. Deeper cooperation is in both nations’ advantage and I will continue to push to advance our mutual security.” Rogers says it’s no surprise that Iron Dome component parts will be made in Alabama. “Alabama’s defense industrial base is second to none. Our workforce is highly skilled and our citizens deeply support our military and our troops. Whether it’s building tanks at Anniston Army Depot or Iron Dome rocket parts for Israel’s defense in Huntsville, Alabama knows what it takes to help keep our military strong.” ###-
09.25.2014	Highlighting just one example of the innovation happening in East Alabama’s economy, Congressman Mike Rogers today visited Alexander City manufacturer Latva South to see how one of the Third District’s many small businesses compete and thrive amid a tough economy. Latva South machines specialize in parts for a wide range of industries. Rogers was in Tallapoosa County today in part to emphasize the ongoing need to support our small and medium-sized businesses, which help provide so many good-paying jobs for East Alabamians. During his visit, Rogers discussed issues ranging from the impact of Obamacare on job creation to the overreach of Federal regulations that make it hard for businesses to grow. Rogers said he was pleased to see firsthand their operations in Alexander City. "I appreciate the folks at Latva South taking time out of their day to visit with me and allow me to tour their facility," Rogers said. “They’ve got a great workforce and are providing good-paying jobs for folks in the area.” Rogers also spent time with Mayor Charles Shaw to discuss issues facing Alexander City. Rogers said he was delighted to be in Tallapoosa County and thanked Mayor Shaw for taking time out of his day to host him. Later that afternoon, Rogers visited the corporate headquarters of Russell Lands to hear how the local economy is doing from the perspective of Lake Martin, one of the region’s most important economic engines. Rogers serves as a senior member of the House Agriculture, Armed Services and Homeland Security Committees. -###-
09.18.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today after passage of an amendment that would help train and equip Syrian opposition. The amendment was offered by House Armed Services Chairman Buck McKeon (R-CA) to H.J. Res. 124 and would “provide assistance, including training, equipment, supplies, and sustainment, to appropriately vetted elements of the Syrian opposition and other appropriately vetted Syrian groups and individuals.” “While I voted for today’s limited resolution, President Obama must develop a more comprehensive military strategy to take strong and decisive action to degrade and destroy this vicious and cowardly enemy. ISIL is a barbaric, ruthless organization that must be confronted and it is essential that America provides that leadership,” Rogers said. Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
09.17.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks on the 227th anniversary of the adoption of the United States Constitution. “Today marks the 227th anniversary of the ratification of the United States Constitution. I join my fellow Americans in celebrating this important document which continues to serve as the blueprint for America written over two centuries ago by our Founding Fathers. “Like all East Alabamians, I will fight for and defend our Constitution. Americans expect their government to adhere to the principles laid out in this important document. As Americans, we cherish our freedoms and we must protect them,” Rogers said. -###-
09.15.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today after Mr. Bennie G. Adkins, of Opelika, was awarded the Medal of Honor from President Obama at a ceremony this afternoon at the White House. “Mr. Adkins is well deserving of this enormous honor. After every East Alabamian learned the true details of his amazing bravery in Vietnam, it seemed there was no high enough honor our nation could bestow upon him. I continue to be astounded by his story and his courage. Mr. Adkins is a true American hero and very deserving recipient of our nation’s highest honor.” The Medal of Honor is awarded to Veterans for uncommon valor in the service of our nation during previous military conflicts. It is traditionally awarded within three years of the act of bravery, but upon learning about Mr. Adkins’ amazing story on the battlefield, Rogers worked over the past year to help shepherd legislation through Congress to waive the time requirement for Mr. Adkins. “Again, I congratulate Mr. Adkins on this honor and on all our behalf, thank him for his selfless service to our country,” Rogers added. -###-
09.15.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers, Chairman of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee on House Armed Services, made the following remarks today regarding the importance of Poland purchasing an interoperable NATO missile defense system and preferably a U.S. system. "I believe missile defense is a critical tool for enhancing security in an uncertain world, just as it is a vital tool for enhancing bilateral relationships. Recently, the Department of Defense communicated to my subcommittee that it believes the missile defense procurement under consideration is a key opportunity for Poland. "In a response to a question for the record from my March 25th missile defense budget hearing, the Department stated: “It is important that the missile defense system Poland procures be interoperable with the NATO ballistic missile defense system. While we would naturally prefer that Poland procure a U.S. system, the United States recognizes Poland’s right to purchase whatever missile defense system it chooses to purchase. If they choose to procure a U.S. system, doing so would provide Poland the best state-of-the art missile.’” -###-
09.11.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today in remembrance of the 13th anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks and the second anniversary of the deadly attack on Americans in Benghazi, Libya. “Across the United States, September 11th is a day we remember our fellow Americans who lost their lives in two separate attacks. Of course most of us can recall exactly where we were when we got the news of the 9/11 terrorist attacks in 2001 on our homeland and then in 2012, in the attack on the U.S. Embassy in Benghazi, Libya. These cowardly terrorist attacks took the lives of so many innocent Americans – fathers, mothers, husbands, wives, brothers and sisters, but even through these tragedies, the American spirit could not be broken. “Thirteen years later, these threats remain and new threats are becoming more violent. The rise of the Islamic State serves as a stark reminder that Americans around the world are targets for hatred. America will not stand by as the forces of evil and hate try to destroy our way of life; we will pursue this evil to ensure that justice is served. “On this September 11th, I hope everyone will join me in remembering the families of those who lost their lives, and keep praying for our brave men and women in uniform and for our great country. God Bless America.” Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
09.10.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement in reaction to President Obama’s address this evening. “The world has rightly reacted with horror to the brutal rise of ISIL as they have slaughtered countless Christians and Muslims alike in their drive to create an Islamic State, including the ruthless murder of two American journalists. I’ve been disappointed by the Administration’s lack of strategy and leadership to confront this threat up to now, and as the House assesses this plan my goal first and foremost will be to disable and destroy this threat." -###-
09.10.2014	As Congress returns for another session after the August District Work Period, I plan to keep pushing the House to fight for many of the concerns and stories I heard from the hard-working, family-loving folks across the Third District. From people’s concerns about their jobs, to Veterans not getting the care they deserve, to the importance of our teachers and schools to our kids, to concerns about our national defense, it is clear East Alabamians remain very concerned about a wide number of issues. Our nation definitely has its challenges ahead and with Congress back in our nation’s Capital, there are many tough decisions that still need to be made. One issue I heard a lot about that continues to be a problem is our broken VA system. I held several meetings with local Veterans in different parts of East Alabama to hear directly from them their concerns with their own personal experiences with the VA. I am bringing their concerns back with me and will continue to press new VA Secretary Robert McDonald to ensure our Veterans are getting the care they deserve. Another discussion I had more times than I can count is about the recent flood of illegal immigrants across our southwest border with Mexico. Earlier this summer, I asked President Obama to deploy the National Guard to help deal with the crisis, and I pressed Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson to come up with answers to this crisis, fast. But the bottom line is that President Obama must enforce our country’s current immigration laws. Will the president grant executive amnesty? I certainly hope he won’t. Our borders must first be sealed and that should be the number one priority when discussing this illegal immigration crisis. I also heard from many East Alabamians about their jobs. Our economy just isn’t growing like it should be, and that’s bad for working families trying to make ends meet. Obamacare is also an ongoing threat. House Republicans have passed numerous bills to help boost our economy and stop Obamacare, but too many are just collecting dust in the Democrat-led Senate. The ability to help jump start our sluggish economy is literally stuck on Senator Reid’s desk. Looking forward, President Obama needs to be focused on several major defense threats: what happens next in the Ukraine and Russian conflict with Vladimir Putin; the ongoing conflict between Israel and Hamas and ensuring Israel knows America has her back; and the barbaric, evil ISIL that must be stopped. I plan to do what I can to ensure Congress focuses closely on these issues along with the pocketbook issues we face at home. We have a lot of work to do. Finally, let us all say a prayer on the 13th anniversary of 9/11 and the second anniversary of the Benghazi attack. The families of those who lost loved ones in those tragedies must always know we will never forget them. God Bless the U.S.A. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
08.29.2014	The question of how to improve the care and treatment of our nation’s Veterans has been an important debate recently, highlighted by new Veterans legislation recently passed by Congress and signed into law by the president. Congressman Mike Rogers continued his focus on Veterans issues by hosting Veterans' Roundtables in Oxford, Opelika and Roanoke to hear how that legislation and other assistance could help improve the overall care and treatment of East Alabama’s Veterans, especially at VA facilities. Rogers said the smaller Veterans Roundtable idea stemmed from a July meeting of his Third District Veterans Advisory Committee held in Sylacauga. Rogers said he asked committee members to seek out additional Veterans in their areas who had experienced problems in having their claims processed or who had other issues regarding customer care at VA facilities. "I am so pleased we were able to facilitate this meeting to again hear firsthand from our Veterans, as well as continue to help them individually," Rogers said. “We had a productive conversation on what needs to improve at the VA.” Rogers said he was sure there are other Veterans across East Alabama who may need assistance and urged them to contact one of his local offices in Anniston or Opelika. "I always tell folks, I cannot help fix a problem if I do not know about it. My staff and I are here to serve each of you across East Alabama," Rogers added. "The men and women who have bravely served our country in uniform deserve the best care and treatment we can offer them," Rogers said. “Our nation must live up to its promise for our nation’s Veterans.” Rogers serves as a senior member of the House Agriculture, Armed Services and Homeland Security Committees. -###-
08.28.2014	At a ceremony at the Anniston Army Depot (ANAD) today, Congressman Mike Rogers praised the Depot’s excellent work in rolling out the Stryker DVH (Double-V Hull) exchange vehicle. The Stryker DVH exchange vehicle applies the Double-V Hull technology and other improvements to existing Stryker vehicles to increase their combat survivability. The enhancements cost approximately 40 percent less than building a new vehicle from scratch thereby making it a solid investment for both the warfighter and taxpayer. In his remarks Rogers said, “The Stryker is a proven combat vehicle that has saved countless lives of our brave warfighters. I am proud of the role that the dedicated workforce at ANAD plays in this effort.” Rogers added, “As Congress works toward funding a 4th brigade set these vehicles, our nation’s enemies must understand that if they chose to step onto the battlefield with the United States, it will not be a fair fight.” Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee and a senior member of the House Agriculture and Homeland Security Committees. -###-
08.27.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers visited with constituents in St. Clair County today, stopping by to talk about health care and education at the Ashville Senior Center and Ragland High School. Rogers also met with Mayor Robert McKay of Ashville and Mayor Lanis White of Ragland. Rogers says he deeply appreciates the chance to hear directly from East Alabamians about the challenges they face and concerns they may have. “I appreciate the time these folks take to talk with me. It was great to see the hard work folks are doing at the Ashville Senior Center on behalf of St. Clair County seniors. America made a promise to its seniors and we must live up to that promise,” he said. “I was also delighted to see the new science lab at Ragland High School,” Rogers said. “It was truly fantastic to speak with the students.” “In addition, I would like to thank Mayors McKay and White for hosting me in their fine cities. I appreciate the work they are doing on behalf of their communities, and will continue to do all I can to help fight for their interests, along with all other communities across East Alabama,” he said. Rogers serves as a senior member of the House Armed Services, Agriculture and Homeland Security committees. - ### -
08.27.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers spent the afternoon in Clay County today at Dewberry Farms for a demonstration project on good forest roads, advocating for more common sense out of Washington when it comes to supporting Alabama’s agriculture-based economy. Rogers said the forest road demonstration will be used for educational purposes to promote how to correctly control soil erosion. "During the negotiations of the 2014 Farm Bill, I fought for countless agriculture sectors across our state including Alabama’s timber industry. The long-fought battle to reduce the number of unnecessary and economically harmful EPA agriculture regulations was one of our top priorities and I’m pleased we had some success. "Meeting today with local family forester, Lamar Dewberry, and other agriculture groups from across Alabama, I was encouraged to see the positive impacts the Farm Bill is already having on family farms here in Clay County," Rogers said. “Agriculture is Alabama’s top economic activity and it is critical that Congress does all it can to help support our family farms and agriculture entrepreneurs.” Also attending the meeting and demonstration were representatives from the USDA/NRCS, Alabama Tree Farm State Committee, Alabama Forestry Commission, Farm Service Agency, Alabama Farmers Federation, US Forest Service, Alabama Treasure Forest Association, Alabama Natural Resources Council and Clay County Soil and Water Committee. Rogers serves as a senior member on the House Agriculture Committee as well as the Armed Services and Homeland Security committees. -###-
08.26.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today after learning Mr. Bennie G. Adkins, of Opelika, would be awarded the Medal of Honor from President Obama on September 15th at the White House. “Mr. Adkins is a true American hero who served his country in Vietnam. His acts of heroism during his tour of duty earned him our nation’s highest honor, which he has long deserved. I congratulate Mr. Adkins on this honor and thank him for his bravery, sacrifice and service to our nation.” The Medal of Honor is awarded to Veterans for uncommon valor in the service of our nation during previous military conflicts. It is traditionally awarded within three years of the act of bravery, but upon learning about Mr. Adkins’ amazing story on the battlefield, Rogers worked over the past year to help shepherd legislation through Congress to waive the time requirement for Mr. Adkins. -###-
08.21.2014	Touring Whitfield Foods and visiting the site of the future Pike Road school were among Congressman Mike Rogers' visits today in Montgomery County. Rogers discussed issues ranging from Obamacare to job creation to the ongoing immigration crisis at the Southwest border. Rogers said he was pleased to see Whitfield Foods – maker of products such as the famous Alaga syrup – and their operations in Montgomery. "I appreciate them taking time out of their schedule to visit with me and allow me to tour their facility," Rogers said. “Whitfield is a longtime family business in the community that provides so many good paying jobs.” Rogers also talked about the VA scandal and recent Veterans legislation signed into law by the president. Rogers called the legislation "a good first step in helping fix a broken VA system.” He added, “Our promise to our Veterans is sacred and the VA must live up to that promise. That promise must extend to the Montgomery VA, and I hope VA Secretary McDonald will focus his attention on significantly improving its operations quickly." In Pike Road, Rogers said he was very interested to see the construction site of the Pike Road school. He said hoped the new school would help serve the needs of the growing community. “All of Alabama’s schools help train our leaders of tomorrow,” he said. “Our economy is dependent on a well-educated, growing workforce.” On Tuesday, Rogers visited Sylacauga High School to learn more about its technical training program that works to prepare students for the workforce. Rogers serves as a senior member of the House Agriculture, Armed Services and Homeland Security Committees. -###-
08.19.2014	Visiting the VA Clinic in Childersburg, touring Sylacauga High School's college and career planning facilities and speaking to the Sylacauga Rotary Club were among Congressman Mike Rogers' visits in Talladega County on Tuesday. Rogers addressed issues ranging from new Veterans legislation passed recently by Congress to the ongoing immigration crisis at our southwestern border. Rogers also spent time with Sylacauga Mayor Doug Murphree, Talladega Mayor Larry Barton and Talladega City Manager Brian Muenger to discuss issues facing the cities. Rogers said he was delighted to be in Talladega County and thanked the mayors for hosting him. During his speech to the Sylacauga Rotary Club at the BB Comer Memorial Library, Rogers gave a Washington update touching on the immigration debate in Washington. "What is happening at our Southwest border is not only an immigration crisis, but a national security crisis," Rogers said. “First and foremost, we must secure our borders. And second, the Federal government needs to return illegal immigrants to their home countries as soon as possible. Rogers also talked about the VA scandal and recent VA legislation signed into law by the president. Rogers called the legislation "a good first step in helping fix a broken VA system.” He added, “Our promise to our Veterans is sacred and the VA must live up to that promise." During Rogers' stop at the VA Clinic, he was able to visit with some Veterans and see the facility firsthand. "Our brave men and women who have served in uniform deserve the very best we can offer them," Rogers added. Rogers said he was proud to see the college and career preparation offered by Sylacauga High School. He said these types of proactive programs keep communities and young people focused on education and jobs. “Our economy is reliant on Alabama’s outstanding workforce and our job creators. This program in Sylacauga is an outstanding example of ways that our schools are helping train our leaders of tomorrow,” he said. Rogers serves as a senior member of the House Agriculture, Armed Services and Homeland Security Committees. -###-
08.01.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL) joined his colleagues today to pass a pair of bills that would address the immigration crisis at the Southwest border. Together, these bills would prohibit any new amnesty applications under President Obama’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) executive order, stop the President from issuing work permits outside of current law and provide additional resources for the National Guard to help secure the border. “The American people expect our laws to be enforced and our borders secured. I hope this action will send a strong message to our southern neighbors that America takes its borders and sovereignty seriously and will not tolerate a mad dash into this country,” Rogers said. Rogers added, “I was disappointed Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid sent the Senate home for a long recess without passing any legislation to help address this crisis. Senator Reid should order the Senate back to Washington immediately to take up the House-passed bills.” -###-
07.31.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers said today that bipartisan legislation to provide better medical care and new doctor choices for our Nation’s Veterans was “not perfect but a good first step,” while also calling on the new VA Secretary to do all he can to help ensure our Veterans receive the best care America can offer. Since earlier this year, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has been under fire nationwide for ongoing reports of scandals, mismanagement and cover ups at VA facilities. Rogers says he hopes this legislation, passed by the House today, would help improve the access to and quality of care for Veterans. He says he also hopes it will provide greater accountability at the VA by allowing for the termination of senior VA employees responsible for mismanagement. “Our brave men and women who have served in uniform risk it all for our freedoms and for our country. These Veterans deserve only the best care we can possibly offer,” Rogers said. “This bill is just a first step in helping fix a very broken VA system and I hope our Veterans begin to see relief soon.” Rogers said he, along with the entire Alabama delegation, is also continuing to monitor closely developments at the Central Alabama Veterans Health Care System (CAVHCS), based in Montgomery. There have been allegations of potential criminal misconduct at the facility as well as several instances of negligence and falsifying records that have already been exposed. On Tuesday, Rogers echoed calls from the Alabama delegation for the new VA Secretary Robert McDonald to visit the facility. H.R. 3230, Veterans’ Access to Care through Choice, Accountability, and Transparency Act of 2014, passed the House of Representatives today. Rogers is Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee and a senior member of the House Agriculture and House Homeland Security committees. -###-
07.30.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers called on the new Secretary of the Veterans Administration, Robert McDonald, to ‘leave no stone unturned’ in his efforts to get to the bottom of the Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) ongoing scandals, mismanagement and appalling treatment of our nation’s Veterans. “Shocking allegations against VA facilities like those in the Central Alabama Veterans Health Care System continue to come to light. Scheduling manipulation, misread X-rays and falsified patients’ charts are unacceptable practices – among too many others still under investigation. East Alabama’s Veterans deserve the best possible care America can offer, and I am hopeful with new leadership, the VA can begin to right the wrongs done to too many of our Veterans,” Rogers said. Rogers echoed his colleagues in the Alabama delegation in encouraging Secretary McDonald to visit the Montgomery VA and develop a plan to right the system’s many reported problems. “The investigation at the Montgomery VA system has uncovered shocking and appalling practices that must be addressed immediately. No stone can be left unturned when it comes fixing the VA’s many problems. Our Veterans have given our country their all, and we owe it to them to provide them the best care possible.” This week, the Veterans Administration released an audit which showed the Montgomery VA as ranking “appallingly high” in instances of mismanagement. Rogers called the audit “proof of an ingrained culture of mismanagement and mistreatment of our Veterans that must be fixed.” He said Secretary McDonald should devote significant time and resources toward getting to the bottom of any ongoing investigations at the facility. Rogers said he would continue to monitor the situation closely. -###-
07.24.2014	Under no circumstances should children detained at the Mexican border be sent to Maxwell-Gunter Air Force Base in Montgomery, Alabama, Congressman Mike Rogers and Congressman Martha Roby said today. The Congressmen just became aware of ongoing talks between the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Department of Defense about potentially housing illegal immigrants at Maxwell-Gunter. To be clear, federal agencies are at this time exploring options and have taken no action. In a letter sent this week to Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell, Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson and Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, Rogers and Roby made clear their strong opposition. As a nation at war, the service members at Maxwell-Gunter play a critical role in our nation’s defense and both members are concerned the troops would be distracted by this effort. "The housing, feeding and caring of immigration detainees would severely compromise the critical mission at Maxwell-Gunter,” the congressmen wrote. "Additionally, HHS’ failure to clearly communicate with Congress and local leaders underscores the Administration’s lack of concern for the impact its policies have on local communities and their limited resources.” Roby and Rogers said they are working to prohibit illegal immigrants from being housed at military bases by including specific language in the special appropriations bill currently being drawn up in Congress. The letter says, “These reports follow the Department’s earlier effort to house immigration detainees at the Center for Domestic Preparedness in Anniston, Alabama. Like the CDP, Maxwell-Gunter is an active federal facility with substantial operational obligations. Throughout the year, Maxwell-Gunter hosts thousands of Air Force personnel conducting time-sensitive training essential for our national defense.” In early July, Rogers’ office learned the CDP was under consideration for housing illegal immigrants and Rogers pressured the Obama Administration into withdrawing the plan. Rogers said: “This is the second time HHS has attempted to bring young illegal immigrants over 900 miles from the border to Alabama. This plan, the second time around, is just as severely flawed. I am strongly opposed to this proposal and believe these detainees would put an unnecessarily massive burden on the local community’s resources. I will continue to push for these children to be returned to their home countries as quickly as possible. We must send a strong message that amnesty is not on the table and illegally crossing our Southwest border will not be tolerated.” Roby said: “Under no circumstances should these children be sent to Maxwell-Gunter or any other military installation for that matter. “The children must be sent back to their countries. We will do it with the utmost compassion and care, but it has to be done. Allowing them to stay is the least compassionate option because it invites even more children to endure the brutality of this organized trafficking scheme. “The only way this influx of children at the border ends is when American planes start landing in their countries of origin bringing the children back. We must send a message that this scheme parents and children have been tricked into will not work.” -###-
07.24.2014	East Alabama Congressman Mike Rogers (R), Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee, held a subcommittee hearing today titled, “Adapting U.S. Missile Defense for Future Threats: Russia, China and Modernizing the NMD Act” to discuss what changes the United States should make to respond to the rapidly changing missile threat environment. “The fact is that Vladimir Putin’s Russia is responsible for much of the world’s ballistic missile proliferation: the recent North Korean ballistic missile launches were Russian SCUD systems. This is well-established fact and shouldn’t surprise anyone. “The question for Congress, and the Strategic Forces Subcommittee that I lead, is how should we respond to Putin’s aggression? There are those who think that in the face of Vladimir Putin or China’s communist thugs, we shouldn’t defend ourselves. In today’s world, that strategy just won’t work,” Rogers said. The three witnesses at the hearing included: Dr. Phil Coyle, Senior Science Fellow, Center for Arms Control and Nonproliferation; Ambassador Robert G. Joseph, Former Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security; Ambassador R. James Woolsey, Jr., Chairman Foundation for Defense of Democracies. Rogers opening statement highlighted the reality of what the United States faces in regards to missile defense across the globe. The statement says, “According to the Missile Defense Agency: There has been an increase of over 1,200 additional ballistic missiles over the past five years….And, as we know, Russia and China are both engaged in aggressive modernization programs, pointing hundreds of missiles of all sizes and ranges at the U.S., its allies and deployed forces.” -###-
07.18.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers met today with his Third District Veterans Advisory Council in Sylacauga. This group of volunteers comprised of Veterans from across the thirteen counties in the Third District meets regularly with Rogers to help advise him on issues important to Veterans and their families. Amid the current scandal with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Rogers used the meeting to hear from the Veterans on issues and problems they have had with their local VA. Rogers also wanted any unique insights from the group on the Central Alabama Veterans Health Care System, based in Montgomery, which has been under intense scrutiny recently after cases of misconduct – some confirmed and others unconfirmed – have been brought to light. “It seems not a day goes by without another terrible report about the VA’s appalling mismanagement or mistreatment of our Veterans. The information this committee shares with me and my staff ultimately could help bring greater accountability and improved care for our Veterans at VA facilities,” Rogers said. Rogers thanked the Veterans able to attend the meeting. “I appreciate these proud Veterans taking their time to be a part of this group to help advise me on issues and concerns important to our Veterans. I thank them for their brave service to our great Nation.” Rogers also asked the committee to bring to his attention any specific information they had on how the VA is treating Veterans across the district. Rogers plans to continue to connect personally with other Veterans across East Alabama to hear their concerns. “The current scandal plaguing the VA is appalling. We must make sure the VA is providing the highest quality of care for our Veterans. Anything less than that is unacceptable, and if folks know something that should be reported I strongly encourage them to bring these issues to my or my staff’s attention so we can alert the proper oversight authorities.” Rogers serves as Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee and is a senior member of the House Agriculture and House Homeland Security Committees. -### -
07.16.2014	As most folks across East Alabama have seen on the news lately, there is a serious immigration crisis at our Southwest border, and so far it doesn’t look like the Federal government has control of the situation. There is a flood of unaccompanied minors illegally crossing our borders. The Department of Homeland Security estimates over 90,000 children will cross our border in 2014, and over 160,000 children are expected to cross in 2015. Last month, I sent a letter to President Obama asking him to deploy the National Guard to the Southwest border to help deal with this crisis. The Border Patrol agents on the ground are overwhelmed and understaffed to deal with the number of children that are flooding into America. In a recent Homeland Security Committee hearing on this crisis, I asked Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson what could be done to expedite returning these children to family members in their own countries the same way we expedite returns for many adults. But Secretary Johnson didn’t have any answers. This immigration crisis is, I believe, a direct result of the Obama Administration refusing to enforce the immigration laws on the books. I asked participants in a Tele-town Hall meeting who they thought was to blame for the crisis and 90 percent of those who participated in the poll agreed with me that it is the president to blame. On top of this, I also learned recently that the Department of Health and Human Services, the Federal agency tasked with handling the illegal immigrant children after they are apprehended, was looking at possibly housing detainees at the Center for Domestic Preparedness (CDP) in Calhoun County. Why would HHS transport the unaccompanied minors over 900 miles to Alabama? It just doesn’t make sense and I strongly opposed - and continue to strongly oppose - this misguided and misinformed proposal. When the relocation plan came to light, I wrote HHS Secretary Burwell and DHS Secretary Johnson demanding answers on why CDP was even being considered. While they pulled the option off the table, I still want answers as to why this plan was ever considered over returning these children to their homes as quickly as possible. President Obama has asked Congress for $3.7 billion to deal with this crisis. Frankly, I don’t think it would do much to secure our borders or help resolve this crisis as long as the president refuses to enforce our existing immigration laws. As a sovereign country, we must enforce our rule of law. I will continue to follow this situation closely and will continue to fight for our current immigration laws to be enforced. As always, I want to hear from you. Please sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
07.02.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers said he was encouraged to learn today the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) plan to house illegal immigrants and children at the Center for Domestic Preparedness (CDP) in Anniston has been cancelled. Rogers’ staff received an email this morning from the Federal agency stating “the site is no longer under consideration, and GSA and HHS will not be taking further steps related to that facility.” After learning about the plan yesterday, Rogers sent a letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell and Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson criticizing and in strong opposition to the proposal. The letter stated, “…I am concerned the housing of many of these unaccompanied minor children who arrived here under the false belief they would be granted legal status – a belief challenged little if at all over the years by the Obama Administration – could put deep and challenging stresses on the local community’s health system. To say that such a misguided plan would need to be first reviewed and discussed extensively by the host community is an understatement. To my knowledge this plan has received no community feedback whatsoever, and I have every belief the CDP is not the only Federal facility under consideration across the nation.” Rogers faults the Obama Administration with the recent flood of illegal immigrant children crossing the Southwest border into our country. “President Obama is not following our immigration laws resulting in a national immigration crisis. We should be working with the nations of origin to return these children back to their homes safely,” Rogers said. -###-
07.01.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers today blasted as “misguided and misinformed” a Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) plan to house illegal immigrants and children at the Center for Domestic Preparedness (CDP) in Anniston. Rogers says many of the illegal immigrants were likely apprehended during the growing crisis at the nation’s Southwest border. In a letter today to Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell and Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson, Rogers strongly criticized the proposal and said he opposed the concept outright. Rogers first learned of the plan from an email sent to his office by the Federal agency. The letter says, “The CDP is a world class first responder training facility; however, it was in no way built to house immigration detainees, much less children. CDP is over 900 miles from the Rio Grande Valley where many of these border crossings occur, and transporting illegal immigrants so far away from the border and their home countries would seem to make this crisis worse. It seems implausible that there is not a temporary facility within 900 miles of our southwestern border capable of housing these individuals without the disruption that I am concerned this transfer would cause to CDP operations. In addition, I am concerned the housing of many of these unaccompanied minor children who arrived here under the false belief they would be granted legal status – a belief challenged little if at all over the years by the Obama Administration – could put deep and challenging stresses on the local community’s health system.” Last week, Congressman Mike Rogers demanded answers from Homeland Security Secretary Johnson on what could be done to remedy the recent surge of unaccompanied children from Central America illegally entering our country on the Southwest border. “Right now, we have a crisis and I don’t see the Administration doing anything about it – other than trying to house the children…You can’t send your children up here and let them stay,” Rogers said during the hearing. Rogers also last week sent a letter to President Obama blaming his Administration for their “deliberate failure to enforce our immigration laws.” -###-
06.30.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks after the Supreme Court verdict in the Burwell v. Hobby Lobby case today. “I was pleased today to see the highest court in the land uphold our religious freedoms and values. Business owners should not be forced to compromise their beliefs for an overreaching government program like Obamacare, and I am relieved to see this strong affirmation for some of our nation’s most important principles.” Rogers said while today’s ruling is significant, it does nothing to address the larger financial challenges working families and small businesses face under Obamacare. “Obamacare is one of the worst laws passed in our lifetimes. Families and seniors are paying skyrocketing premium increases all while facing fewer doctor choices. This law must be repealed, and Congress must not give up that fight.” -###-
06.24.2014	The recent flood of unaccompanied children from Central America illegally crossing the Southwest border into our country has become an immigration crisis for America. Today, Congressman Rogers questioned Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson on the issue during a House Homeland Security Committee hearing. The hearing was titled, “Dangerous Passage: The Growing Problem of Unaccompanied Children Crossing the Border” with Jeh Johnson, Craig Fugate, Administrator of Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and Ronald D. Vitiello, Deputy Chief of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) as witnesses. “Right now, we have a crisis and I don’t see the Administration doing anything about it – other than trying to house the children. I understand the humanitarian basis for that, but we need to send a signal to these other countries that it’s not going to work. You can’t send your children up here and let them stay,” Rogers said during the hearing. This week, Rogers sent a letter to the President. The letter states, “Our great nation has been and always will be a beacon of hope and freedom for the world. However, because of your Administration’s years-long, deliberate failure to enforce our immigration laws, our nation now faces a crisis at our Southwest border that threatens our sovereignty and adherence to the rule of law. According to the Department of Homeland Security estimates, over 60,000 children will cross our border this year, and over 127,000 children will cross in 2015. Desperate families in poverty-stricken countries in search of a better life are putting their children in physical danger in order to cross our border. The surge of unaccompanied children at the border is a direct result of the decision to circumvent Congress and implement the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals policy. The administrative decision to grant special status to children brought here illegally by their parents encourages and rewards the deliberate breaking of U.S. law and is tantamount to administrative amnesty.” After the hearing, Rogers stated, “It is simple, President Obama must enforce the laws on the books. His pro-amnesty executive actions are the root cause of this crisis and to ignore it makes matters even worse.” Video of the questions can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SA3r1f5igwk
06.20.2014	With the Obama Administration continuing to sit on its hands while Russian President Vladimir Putin sends tanks into Eastern Europe, East Alabama Congressman Mike Rogers, Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee's Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, said the House passed his amendment last night to counter Russia’s willful violations of weapons treaties. “The Obama Administration refuses to stand up to Russian treaty violations, and an emboldened Vladimir Putin sees the United States is turning a blind eye across the board to his aggressive actions. President Obama’s unwillingness to stand up to Russia has made many of our arms treaties meaningless, and it continues a disturbing pattern of selective enforcement of laws by this Administration. My amendment sends the clear signal that Congress will not stand by while Russia tries to expand its territory or influence at the expense of our security or that of our allies,” Rogers said. The amendment authored by Rogers denies any funding in the Defense Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2015 for the implementation of what’s known as the Open Skies treaty. When signed by the United States and Russia in 1992, the treaty allowed each country to fly approved monitoring aircraft over each other’s nuclear weapons sites. The objective by participating nations, including Ukraine, was to promote transparency and trust in each nation’s military activities. Recently, however, the Obama Administration allowed Russia to upgrade its Open Skies aircraft in ways that will directly threaten U.S. national security, a move Rogers strongly opposes. Rogers believes the U.S. must do more to block Russian aggression, and says his amendment does precisely that. It passed last night on voice vote. Rogers’ Floor statement is below from last night’s debate. -###- Mr. Chairman, I rise today to urge members to support my amendment to this bill and the underlying bill from my friend from New Jersey. I regret that my amendment today is necessary. It deals with an arcane issue: the Treaty on Open Skies. In the FY15 National Defense Authorization Act, H.R. 4435, we included a bipartisan provision to require certification of the national security implications for Russian Federation proposals to implement new sensors on their Open Skies Aircraft. These aircraft are allowed to fly over the U.S. to conduct surveillance flights. They are not supposed to supplement Russian intelligence collection on the United States. Yet, not long after this body passed the NDAA on a 325 to 98 vote, the Administration opted to ignore this body’s concerns, ignore the concerns of a bipartisan group of Senators on the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and approve a Russian request to improve its sensor platform. The Administration did this without regard to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and illegal seizure of Crimea. The Administration did this without regard for Russia’s violation of the INF treaty. The Administration did this without regard to Russia’s compliance failings in the New START treaty. The Administration did this without regard to the fact that Russia is cheating on the Open Skies treaty itself – just look at the State Department website. And the Administration did this without regard to the concerns of the Department of Defense and other government agencies. How did Russia respond to this decision by the Administration to accede to Putin’s wishes? The New York Times, this past weekend answered that question: “Rebels also claim to have shot down a Ukrainian AN-30 surveillance plane…on June 6, 2014. The June 6 episode was of particular concern because it involved the destruction of one of the two planes that Ukraine used to monitor the “Open Skies” treaty. Mr. Chairman, when will we learn that we cannot respond to Russian aggression with concession? Putin responded, as he always does, by taking our concession and having his shock troops in Ukraine shoot down this airplane. We cannot continue like this. We cannot continue to ignore Russian cheating when it comes to our treaties. We cannot continue to allow Russia to misuse arms control treaties, like the Open Skies treaty. We cannot continue to allow Russia to foment violence on NATO’s borders. We cannot continue to ignore the concerns of our military and other national security agencies just to make Russia feel good. I urge support for my amendment to send a message to Russia and to safeguard our national security. I reserve the balance of my time.
06.10.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today in response to a report from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Inspector General. The report reveals the Central Alabama Veterans Health Care System falsified wait times on Veterans’ records, among other problems. The Central Alabama Veterans Health Care System (CAVHCS) has two campuses, one in Montgomery and one in Tuskegee. “Across the nation the VA has showed an outrageous pattern of mismanagement and malfeasance, and I am appalled to learn that certain employees at Alabama VA facilities have been a part of this. To know that any of our Veterans experienced artificially extended wait times is deeply disturbing. No matter how many employees are involved, all implicated in this scandal should be terminated,” Rogers stated. Rogers says he plans to meet later this week with investigators from the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs to hear more about the situation facing East Alabama’s Veterans. “Our Veterans deserve the best care, and Congress must ensure they receive it,” he said. -###-
06.02.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) proposed new rules on power plants. These proposed rules would institute a new cap-and-trade system to demand a 30 percent cut in emissions from power plants. “President Obama’s war on coal is a war on families and jobs. Although I am not surprised, I am deeply concerned with this job-threatening proposal from the EPA. Congress rejected the Cap and Trade proposal four years ago, and now President Obama is seeking once again to go around Congress to implement his radical environmental agenda.” Rogers stated. Rogers added, “Our economy has struggled since President Obama has been in office. These proposals will increase electricity rates on all Alabama consumers, taking more money out of the wallets of hard-working Alabamians and forcing businesses to choose between jobs and paying for higher energy costs. The EPA’s new rule is bad news for our economy.” -###-
05.28.2014	Following the release of a Department of Veterans Affairs Inspector General’s report, Congressman Mike Rogers called on Secretary Eric Shinseki to resign immediately. Rogers said, “While Secretary Shinseki has served his country nobly, both as a veteran himself and as Secretary, it is time for new leadership in the Department of Veterans Affairs. The inspector general’s report confirms what seemed too appalling to be true – because of falsifying records and mismanagement at the VA, the health of many Veterans is in jeopardy. This includes a number of our nation’s Veterans that may have died while waiting for care. The mismanagement and neglect of duties detailed in these reports simply cannot be overlooked. Secretary Shinseki must take responsibility for the systemic problems plaguing the VA. I trust he will make the right decision for our nation’s Veterans.” Rogers added, “Responsibility starts at the top, and President Obama has remained unaccountable throughout this whole scandal. More must be done to right the wrongs done against our Veterans.” In addition, Rogers joined with House Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Jeff Miller (R-FL) in calling for the Department of Justice to immediately begin a criminal investigation into wrongdoing at the VA. Rogers also cosponsored and voted for H.R. 4031, the Department of Veterans Affairs Management Accountability Act. -###-
05.21.2014	About a year ago, Americans started seeing more media coverage of scandals involving the IRS’s targeting of conservative groups and the State Department’s continued lack of honesty about the events in Benghazi, Libya. Both of these issues deserve more attention than they have gotten. Unfortunately, from my view and from many others across East Alabama, the Executive Branch has yet to take sufficient action to get to the bottom of either. At least the House of Representatives stepped up to the plate. As Congress sought answers, Lois Lerner, the former IRS official, refused to testify before House Committees. By treating conservative tax-exempt groups unfairly, the IRS trampled on one of Americans’ most deeply-held values – their First Amendment right to Free Speech. That’s wrong and Americans deserve the truth about what happened. As a result, the House passed a Resolution holding Lois Lerner in contempt of Congress for her refusal. I voted for that Resolution, and I also voted for a House Resolution that would force Attorney General Eric Holder to appoint a special counsel to investigate the targeting of conservative groups. This lack of accountability didn’t just stop with the IRS targeting. For well over a year, they have failed to offer a full account into the September 11, 2012 terrorist attack on our embassy in Benghazi, Libya. Americans died in this attack, yet Administration officials have refused to disclose with the full story. Despite efforts to get all the facts from officials, the House of Representatives hit roadblock after roadblock. On May 8th, the House of Representatives voted to create its own Select Committee on Benghazi. I was glad to cast this important vote, and I look forward to this Committee’s insight into the events of September of 2012. These two investigations, along with outrageous allegations in the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), point toward a troubling lack of accountability within the Federal government. It is despicable the way our brave Veterans are being treated. I have co-sponsored and voted for legislation to increase transparency and accountability in the VA – but the point is it shouldn’t have happened in the first place. Someone must be held accountable, and Congress needs to help find the truth.
05.21.2014	On the heels of growing outrage over the alleged appalling mistreatment of our Veterans and a news conference in which President Obama called for accountability at the Department of Veterans Affairs, Congressman Mike Rogers said “accountability starts at the top” and said the president has moved too slowly to get to the bottom of the scandal. “The reports of our nation’s Veterans dying while waiting for care are appalling and unacceptable. President Obama has moved too slowly to get to the bottom of these disgraceful reports, and no amount of blame shifting or double talk will distract from the fact that the buck stops with him. Whether or not Secretary Shinseki steps aside, the ultimate responsibility is with the president to ensure the VA caring properly for our Veterans.” Rogers made the comments on the heels of a pending vote in the House on a bill that would let the Secretary of Veterans Affairs fire employees of the Senior Executive Service who may be responsible for the appalling mistreatment of our Veterans. “President Obama’s continued lack of leadership and decisive action on this scandal is inexcusable. Congress should pass this bill and the president should sign it, but it’s only the beginning of a need to bring greater accountability within our government and end the troubling pattern of blame shifting that has been the hallmark of this Administration,” Rogers said. Rogers said the bill, H.R. 4031, the Department of Veterans Affairs Management Accountability Act, also requires the Secretary to notify House and Senate Committees when an employee has been removed, a move that should help increase oversight into the Department of Veterans Affairs. Rogers was a cosponsor of the bill and urges its passage. -###-
05.13.2014	During a visit to Pell City today, Congressman Mike Rogers said the vast expansion of federal regulations under President Obama – along with Obamacare’s rising healthcare premiums on working families and small businesses – are threatening good paying jobs across St. Clair County and East Alabama. Rogers’ visit, along with others he is making across East Alabama, is part of his ongoing jobs tour of East Alabama businesses and manufacturers, which Rogers is continuing to help highlight his constituents’ growing concerns about the policies coming from Washington. “From Obamacare to burdensome federal regulations, too many of the big government policies of President Obama are costing jobs and threatening the livelihoods of East Alabama working families. I’m here to tell these hard-working folks that I will continue to fight the Obama Administration’s jobs-threatening agenda, and to tell them that their concerns matter to Congress,” Rogers said. In Pell City, Rogers added he was impressed by the outstanding work done at the JRBC Packaging Solutions and also at the Goodgame Company. “We should all be proud of what East Alabama’s entrepreneurs and workers are doing in this challenging economy,” he said. “Alabama has the best workforce in America, and it really shows in the great work these folks are doing.” Rogers also spoke with the business managers and employees about their concerns over rising premiums under Obamacare. Later that day, Rogers reiterated similar themes in a speech to the Pell City Rotary Club. - ### -
05.08.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today in anticipation of a vote in the House of Representatives on H. Res. 567, a resolution that would create a new select committee to investigate the September 11, 2012 terrorist attack in Benghazi, Libya. This select committee would consolidate House oversight into the events of September 11th, 2012 and the investigations thereafter. “The Obama Administration has yet to tell the truth about the attacks on September 11, 2012, in Benghazi, Libya when the U.S. Ambassador and three other Americans were killed by terrorists. As we witnessed just last week, the Administration hasn’t been forthcoming with information regarding the attack. It’s unfortunate we’re spending time searching for answers from our own elected leaders, rather than rallying around the unique brand of American justice for those who wish to do us harm,” Rogers stated. Rogers added, “As the Administration continues to stonewall on the events of that day, I am pleased to see the House of Representatives take this important step of establishing a new select committee to investigate Benghazi. The American people deserve the truth, and the lives lost that night deserve justice.” Rogers is also a co-sponsor of H. Res. 36, a resolution introduced by Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA) to establish a select committee to investigate the events of September 11th, 2012. -###-
05.07.2014	East Alabamians are feeling the pain as summer approaches and energy prices rise. With gas at its highest price in months, one might think the Obama Administration would be putting forth solutions to help lower energy prices and create more jobs for cash-strapped Americans. One such solution – building the Keystone XL Pipeline – would accomplish both goals at once. The Keystone XL Pipeline, which I have long supported, would greatly benefit our struggling economy. The pipeline would bring good-paying jobs to Americans at a time when our economy is stuck in neutral. It would also provide North American energy from Canada, a long-standing ally of the USA, to be refined and sold. The pipeline has broad-based support from both Republicans and Democrats. Even trade unions support it. The pipeline is actually a bipartisan issue in Washington - most people agree on it. However, just three weeks ago, the State Department announced an indefinite delay on approval of the Keystone XL Pipeline. Officials have been studying and delaying this project for five years now. Once again, they are putting politics before the American people. Through the use of Executive Action and sheer stubbornness, the Obama Administration refuses to act on the Keystone XL Pipeline; instead, they impose delay after delay. The American people can’t wait any longer. The House has acted repeatedly to urge officials to build the pipeline. In the Senate, a group of bipartisan Senators are pushing their own legislation to force the construction of this important pipeline. I applaud their efforts, which are further proof that this pipeline is important to the American people. For far too long, Americans have been forced to rely on foreign sources of energy. With uncertainty in South America and Ukraine, it is becoming clearer that the time to lessen our dependence on foreign energy is now. It’s past time for the president to act on efforts to create energy independence. The use of Executive Action to circumvent Congress and the will of the American people is unacceptable. Americans need reliable and affordable energy. Most importantly, we need good-paying jobs and fewer regulations. The time to build the Keystone XL Pipeline is now.
05.05.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today in response to the announcement that the House will vote this week on H.Res.565, a resolution calling on Attorney General Eric Holder to appoint a special counsel to investigate the targeting of conservative non-profit groups by the Internal Revenue Service. The House of Representatives also announced that a resolution would come to the floor recommending that Congress finds Lois G. Lerner, Former Director of Exempt Organizations at the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), in contempt of Congress. Rogers said, “It is past time for Attorney General Holder to bring criminal charges against those responsible at the IRS for improperly targeting conservative organizations. Americans exercise their First Amendment right to free speech by supporting groups that share their views. Using the power of the government to hold these tax-exempt groups hostage – simply because of opposing policy views – is unbecoming of a nation as great as ours. All Americans deserve the truth behind this scandal.” “Attorney General Holder’s failure to act and Mrs. Lerner’s refusal to provide Americans with answers is a disgrace. The IRS’s blatant abuse of power is unacceptable, and I offer my full support to these resolutions,” Rogers added. -###- q
04.28.2014	On the heels of media reports that American Veterans have died waiting for critical medical care appointments, Congressman Mike Rogers today announced his strong support for a bill to hold accountable senior VA employees that may have been responsible for the extended appointment waits. Rogers said, “The recent reports of preventable deaths of Veterans while waiting for VA care are appalling and inexcusable. It is also greatly disturbing to learn that some senior executive managers at these specific VA centers received massive bonuses, and those bonuses were never tied to their performance. These senior managers have the duty and responsibility to make sure our Veterans get the care they deserve on time. If they can’t do their jobs, then they should be fired.” HR 4031, the “Department of Veterans Affairs Management Accountability Act of 2014,” would give the Secretary of Veterans Affairs the authority to remove employees of the Senior Executive Service based on performance. “The senior leadership at the VA must be held accountable for their management performance. Once they are, then hopefully they will start to address the massive backlog of cases at the VA. I fully support House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Chairman Jeff Miller’s call for an inspector general’s investigation on these recent reports of preventable deaths and lavish bonuses,” Rogers stated. Recently, Rogers toured two Veterans Facilities that serve the Veterans of Alabama’s Third District. Rogers added, “I have seen firsthand how important these types of facilities are to our Veterans. Our veterans answered the call of duty when our nation needed them. Our nation in turn must keep our promise we made to them.” -###-
04.24.2014	Today, Congressman Mike Rogers toured the Regional Veterans Administration (VA) Claims Center in Montgomery, a visit which follows on the heels of his visit last week to the Central Alabama Veterans’ Health Care System in Tuskegee. Rogers, a member of the Armed Services Committee, said he was meeting with VA officials to hear updates on their efforts to provide high quality and timely care to our nation’s Veterans. Senior leadership and staff from both the Tuskegee and Montgomery VA facilities led Rogers on tours of their facilities, both of which directly serve Third District Veterans. “I appreciate all the good work the VA does to help care and provide for our Veterans, those who have given so much for our nation,” Rogers said. “At both facilities I was able to discuss with top officials my concerns about the many challenges facing our Veterans. One of the most important of these concerns is the continued backlog of Veteran’s claims. The House has passed legislation to try and help alleviate this problem, but it’s important to hear first-hand what more could be done to help the VA provide the best service.” Rogers says he meets regularly with his Veterans Advisory Committee – comprised of Veterans from all 13 counties across the Third District – to discuss important Veterans issues. “These men and women help provide invaluable insight into the real-life challenges our Veterans are facing,” Rogers said. “My staff and I bring these concerns with us when we meet with VA officials, and I very much appreciate the time they take to hear and address them.” Rogers serves as Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee and is a senior member of the House Agriculture and House Armed Services Committees. -### -
04.23.2014	Congressman Rogers announced this week the Top Five in the Third District Art Competition. The Top Five pieces were selected anonymously by a panel of judges. The winner will be selected by the public. Voting will be conducted on his Facebook page (www.facebook.com/CongressmanMikeDRogers.) The winner will be the picture with the most 'Likes.' This winner will be selected Thursday, April 28 at 5 p.m. EST. Constituents are encouraged to vote for their favorite piece of art. Information for the Top Five: #7 The Knight's Table Photography--Chess pieces placed perfectly on a wooden picnic table Oxford High School Artist: Alaina Moeller, Grade 9 #38 Shock Rose Mixed Media--Portrait of Rose Shock (charcoal & pastels) on newspaper collage. Oxford High School Artist: Amber Edgeworth, Grade 11 #41 Double Self-Portrait Graphite Opelika High School Artist: Anna Lazenby, Grade 12 #54 Carli Graphite--Close Up of a girl's face Opelika High School Artist: Jasmine Boutdy, Grade 12 #91 Kaleidoscope Skin Mixed Media Opelika High School Artist: Kinyetta Alfred, Grade 11 Congressman Rogers also congratulates the Honorable Mentions in the Art Contest. These pieces of art were also selected anonymously by a panel of judges. Information for the Honorable Mention: #3 Shells By the Sea Watercolor--Abstract Sea Shells with rocks to the right & water to the left Montgomery Catholic Preparatory Artist: Audrey Kim, Grade 9 #10 Raven Pen & Ink--Raven with patterns Sylacauga High School Artist: Kim Aldridge, Grade 12 #21 Fjaril White Charcoal--Monarch Butterfly resting on pink flowers in a bed of leaves St. Clair County High School Artist: Kimary Causey-Dickerson, Grade 12 #46 Untitled Watercolor--Self Portrait of a girl wearing a blue shirt & a burnt orange headband signing "I Love You." Alabama School for the Deaf Artist: Caleria Waynica Usher, Grade 11 #52 To Get the Blues Acrylic Painting--Person playing a trumpet. Opelika High School Artist: Abbey Rowe, Grade 11 #60 United in Arms Charcoal Opelika High School Artist: Natalie Simpkins, Grade 9 #64 Self Portrait Collage Oxford High School Artist: Emily Paige Cook #74 Two Pots Acrylic--Lower level pot leading up stairs, second level pot against brick wall Montgomery Catholic Preparatory Artist: Somi Baek, Grade 12 #76 Fast Trac Graphite Opelika High School Artist: Kaia Spinks, Grade 11 #88 All My Life Computer Image--Images of her life in background Opelika High School Artist: Yumi Oh, Grade 11 #90 Detention Frog Colored Pencil--Tree Frog on detention slip Sylacauga High School Artist: Jamarkus Hodges #102 Untitled Blick Studio Markers--Swirls of warm colors inside a larger swirl of cool colors, and vice versa, creating a colorful piece of work Oxford High School Artist: April Carr, Grade 12
04.09.2014	Tax Day, April 15th, is a day so many East Alabamians despise. Every year around this time, folks prepare their taxes and dread the complications and confusion that come along with them. But to truly understand how broken the tax code is and to see just how much working Americans pay in taxes, let’s talk about April 21st. That’s the day, according to the non-partisan Tax Foundation, on which working Americans, as a group, will have earned enough money to pay the nation’s collective tax bill, which includes all Federal, state and local taxes. That means we Americans spend about 30 percent of our total national income on taxes. Some people pay more, some much less. The Tax Foundation also found that, collectively, Americans will spend more on taxes than they spend on housing, food and clothing combined. It raises the question of why the president is proposing even more new taxes – totaling $1.75 trillion – over the next decade. Washington doesn’t have a revenue problem; it has a spending problem. It’s got a terrible, jobs-killing tax code too. It is no wonder so many people feel they are taxed enough already. It’s not just working Americans that feel like they’re spending so much of their working lives paying the tax bill. Small businesses are being squeezed. The taxes and penalties alone associated with the Affordable Care Act are forcing the small business owners into making increasingly difficult tradeoffs. These regulations have also made the tax code even more complex. When Obamacare’s regulations force small business owners to choose between layoffs or reduced wages, it is working families that end up suffering the most. Of course, if anyone could name their least favorite government agency, it must be the IRS. This agency has only grown more powerful in recent years. After all, it is the IRS that is now in charge of enforcing much of Obamacare – the same IRS that has used its power to suppress the First Amendment rights of groups seeking to advocate for conservative policies. So I believe we should just scrap the tax code altogether. As a strong supporter of H.R. 352, the Tax Code Termination Act, I think it’s long past time to set a termination date for the burdensome tax code and make Congress come up with something better – something fairer and simpler to replace the old one. While we’re at it, let’s take that opportunity and get rid of the IRS once and for all.
04.03.2014	With the dreaded Tax Day – April 15 – only two weeks away, Congressman Mike Rogers is urging Congress to bring H.R 352, the Tax Code Termination Act, to the floor for a vote. Rogers has consistently backed legislation that would force Congress to fix the current tax code. “America’s tax code is an embarrassment: too long, too complicated, and too full of loop holes. We need a simpler and fairer tax code that encourages savings and investment and allows Americans to keep more of their hard-earned dollars,” Rogers said. “Tax Day is rapidly approaching, and Americans are fed up with the burdensome tax code. Hard-working folks in East Alabama know how to handle their money much better than the overzealous IRS.” Rogers added, “The current tax code is proof of so much of what is wrong with Washington, and it is time to get rid of it. I believe that creating a new tax code based on simplicity and fairness will help spur economic growth and job creation.” Rogers is Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces. He is also a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. -###-
03.26.2014	Last week I met with advisory committees composed of farmers and Veterans from across East Alabama. Besides agriculture and specific Veterans issues, we talked about many of the kitchen table challenges we all face these days: a tough economy, a lack of good paying jobs and a concern about the direction of the Federal government. But in those conversations, as in so many other discussions across East Alabama, I often hear a more concerning question: are we a nation in decline? Like nearly everyone I talk with, I too am very concerned with the direction our nation is headed. President Obama, I believe, has led America down a path of uncertainty at home and abroad. Under his Administration, big government has gotten bigger, and from my perspective, too many times our Constitution seems to be overlooked or outright ignored when it does not suit the president’s policy objectives. Some people may disagree with that assessment. I do not claim to be unbiased when I criticize the president’s policies. Despite our current situation, I believe America’s future is bright. Yet the here and now concerns me greatly. I see an Administration at a loss when it comes to national security policy. Adversaries are having a field day, mocking U.S. claims to “red lines.” Last year we saw an example of that when a brutal Syrian dictator simply ignored the president, and used chemical weapons on his own people. As Americans raise concerns about our power and prestige around the world and at home, Russia is reasserting itself. Vladimir Putin’s forces invaded the sovereign nation of Ukraine, a former Russian ally freed after the Soviet Union’s collapse. About that same time, the White House released a budget for Fiscal Year 2015 that seeks to cut our military to the lowest levels since before World War II. It is embarrassing and concerning all at the same time. President Reagan so eloquently spoke of America as a shining city on a hill. He was right. I firmly believe those words are as true today as they were then. With a willingness to come together around the ideals that made this nation great, I believe that America’s best days can be ahead of us. It will take a lot of hard work to get us there and a lot of tough decisions will have to be made.
03.25.2014	President Obama’s budget shortchanges American missile defenses and threatens to further undermine the nation’s military strength, said Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL,) Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, today at a Congressional hearing to evaluate the Administration’s budget request for Missile Defense for fiscal year 2015. Rogers, a firm supporter of the nation’s missile defense forces, strongly disagrees with the president’s proposal. The main focuses of the hearing were missile defense programs of the Missile Defense Agency, which is headquartered in Huntsville, Alabama. During his opening statement Rogers stated that “missile defense has been at the center of this Administration’s catastrophic failure known as the Reset with Russia.” Rogers went on stress his opposition to the president’s missile defense funding proposal. He also questioned Vice Admiral James D. Syring, Director of the Missile Defense Agency, stating “I am concerned by Russia’s behavior threatening our allies, including the illegal invasion of Ukraine and its violation of the INF treaty. Are you?” “The President will propose the policies he wants, but ultimately Congress holds the purse strings. As Chairman of this subcommittee, I want to make clear that I will oppose this proposal,” Rogers said, adding “the present trajectory is all too reminiscent to me of earlier eras of failed leadership and retrenchment.” -###-
03.25.2014	At a hearing today of the Armed Services Committee, Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL) questioned the Secretary of the Army John McHugh and the Army Chief of Staff General Raymond Odierno about the Army’s short- and long-term plans for the Anniston Army Depot’s workload. “The Anniston Army Depot is the most efficient, most productive facility in the Department. Our entire community has worked hard through tough budget times to make sure ANAD maintains and expands its workload – all to ensure our men and women in uniform have the best possible resources to support their missions. With important decisions ahead, I want to make sure the Army’s leadership understands without a doubt that ANAD is their premiere production and maintenance facility,” Rogers said. In response to Rogers’ later questioning regarding future vehicle work Secretary of the Army John McHugh agreed with Rogers’ assertion of ANAD’s efficiency, noting the “advantages and competitive success that Anniston has demonstrated.” During the hearing, Rogers warned the Army against any plans to move workload from ANAD to prop up under-performing facilities in the Army system. Rogers also impressed upon the Army that ANAD should be the home of any new combat vehicles the Army plans to buy. Nathan Hill, military liaison for the Calhoun Chamber of Commerce, agreed. “Congressman Rogers is exactly right. ANAD is one of the most efficient installations in the Army, and we need to make sure it stays that way. All of our community’s stakeholders need to continue to speak with one voice and keep up the fight for the Depot.” After the hearing, Rogers also said the Depot “does an outstanding job supporting our warfighters and because of its efficient and dedicated workforce. The simple fact is the Depot provides a great deal for the taxpayer and second-to-none support for the Army.” Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
03.19.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers met today with his Third District Veterans Advisory Committee in Talladega. This volunteer panel, made up of Veterans from across the Third District, meets regularly with Rogers and helps advise him on issues important to Veterans and their families. During the meeting, Rogers and the advisory committee listened to a presentation and update from the Congressional Liaison Patient Advocate, Brett Robbins from VAMC in Birmingham. Rogers said he also would continue to do all he could to help reduce the ongoing backlog of cases at the Veterans Administration. Recently Rogers voted to pass H.R. 2189, which would establish a commission or task force charged with examining the root causes of the Department of Veterans Affairs disability claims backlog and providing solutions for ending it by 2015. “Hopefully our Veterans believe these meetings are an effective way for them to keep up to date on pressing issues and to talk directly with me about their concerns. They certainly provide me a great, firsthand opportunity to hear specific issues that may be on folks’ minds,” Rogers said. “Congressman Rogers and his staff are always available to answer questions from the Veterans community. These meetings give us the opportunity to hear from experts and have our concerns addressed,” said Jim Heigl of Sylacauga. Mr. Heigl is a charter member of Chapter 945 of the Vietnam Veterans of America. Rogers thanked the Veterans able to attend the meeting. “I appreciate these proud Veterans taking time out of their busy schedules to be a part of this group and to continue to help advise me on issues and concerns important to our Veterans across East Alabama. We thank them all for their service to our great Nation.” The Veterans Advisory Committee meets throughout the year across East Alabama and is made up of Veterans from the 13 counties in the Third District. Rogers serves as Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee and is a senior member of the House Agriculture and House Armed Services Committees. -### -
03.18.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers hosted a Third Congressional District Agriculture Advisory Committee meeting today in Auburn with local farmers and leaders in the agriculture industry from across East Alabama. Rogers’s committee, which includes farmers from all 13 counties across the Third District, meets regularly to discuss important issues facing the state’s number one industry. This particular meeting was scheduled to address upcoming changes resulting from the recently passed 2014 Farm Bill. “These meetings are a great opportunity to talk directly with farmers and ranchers across East Alabama and hear what is important to them while discussing the ever changing status of Federal Agriculture policy. As the folks who grow America’s food, our farmers are vital to our nation’s economy and health,” Rogers said after the event. Rogers discussed the passage of the 2014 Farm Bill and what changes farmers can expect to see. East Alabama farmers grow or produce everything from poultry to peanuts, and the Farm Bill speaks to nearly every food product Americans purchase in the grocery store. Tom Ingram, a Lee County farmer and president of the Lee County Farmers Federation, said he appreciated Rogers’ efforts to support Alabama’s farmers. "Congressman Rogers was a key negotiator on this year’s Farm Bill. He is one of Alabama’s strongest advocates for agriculture and we appreciate his work to stand up for our farmers." The meeting was held in Auburn at Lazenby Farms with a tour of the farms afterward. “I appreciate everyone on this committee who took time from their busy schedules to be here today,” Rogers added. Rogers also serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee on Armed Services and a senior member of the Homeland Security Committee. -###-
03.14.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today in response to the passage of H.R. 4015, the SGR Repeal and Medicare Provider Payment Modernization Act. “East Alabama’s seniors and doctors rely on Medicare, and it’s critical that Congress helps strengthen and secure Medicare for current and future generations. This bill, if passed by the Senate and signed by the president, could help bring greater certainty that the doctors seniors know and trust will be able to stay in Medicare.” Rogers said the bill would repeal what he called the flawed Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula that reimburses doctors for services provided to Medicare recipients. The bill would replace the current flawed reimbursement rate with a stable, long term solution. This legislation also repeals the highly controversial and burdensome individual mandate implemented by President Obama’s deeply flawed health care law. Rogers says he favors a full repeal of Obamacare. “After many broken promises to our seniors from the Obama Administration, Congress is putting forth real health care solutions. I urge the Senate to immediately take up and pass this bill,” Rogers said. ###
03.12.2014	The U.S. Chamber of Commerce today presented Congressman Mike Rogers (AL-03) with its annual Spirit of Enterprise Award in recognition of his support of pro-growth, pro-jobs policies during the first session of the 113th Congress. “2013 was challenging, but Congressman Rogers worked to pass legislation and enact policies that will keep our country moving forward economically,” U.S. Chamber President and CEO Thomas J. Donohue said. “The Spirit of Enterprise Award recognizes legislators like Congressman Rogers who have demonstrated their commitment to supporting pro-growth policies in the 113th Congress.” The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on their votes on critical business legislation outlined in the Chamber publication, How They Voted. Members who supported the Chamber’s position on at least 70 percent of those votes qualify to receive the award. Rogers has a cumulative rating of 90 percent for his tenure in Congress. “Small businesses are the life blood of East Alabama and the jobs engine of our rural economy,” Rogers said. “Congress must do all it can to help create and retain good paying jobs while reducing harmful regulations. I am honored to receive this award and will continue to do all I can to help fight for the interests of our small businesses.” The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world’s largest business federation representing the interests of more than three million businesses of all sizes, sectors, and regions, as well as state and local chambers and industry associations. ###
03.12.2014	Across East Alabama, so many of our seniors depend on Medicare to help provide their health care coverage. Medicare Advantage, or Medicare Part C, is a program that allows seniors to enroll in plans provided by private insurance companies so they can stay in their current networks and keep the doctors they like and trust. Almost 30 percent of all Medicare beneficiaries participate in Medicare Advantage. Across Alabama, it’s about 24 percent. But Alabama seniors enrolled in Medicare Advantage plans will soon face some of the same consequences of Obamacare that millions of other Americans are. The president's health care law included $716 billion in future Medicare spending reductions with a lot of these cuts coming from Medicare Advantage. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) recently released their proposed rate changes for Medicare Advantage which could reduce payments by up to 3.55 percent. Alabama seniors have a right to be concerned about these provider cuts. They could result in less coverage or fewer benefits. They could impact which doctors continue to participate in the plans. Just last week, I co-signed a letter to CMS Administrator Marilyn Tavenner expressing concerns about future reimbursement reductions in Medicare Advantage and their impact on our seniors. I of course am a strong opponent of the law, and believe this is just another example of why Obamacare does not work. Seniors could now risk higher out-of-pocket expenses to keep their current Medicare Advantage plans, or could be forced out of their plans all together, losing their current networks, providers and doctors. Sound familiar? President Obama said if you like your health care plan, you can keep it. Once again, with these pending Medicare Advantage cuts, that statement just doesn’t seem to tell the whole story. As always, I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Contact me on my website at mike-rogers.house.gov and sign up for my eNewsletter. You can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest, Tumblr and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
03.05.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today after the president released his budget request for Fiscal Year 2015 (FY15). “The president’s budget would lock in deficit spending, increase the tax burden, do nothing to strengthen or secure Medicare and Social Security and unnecessarily weaken our armed forces – all while adding $8.3 trillion to our national debt over the life of his plan. “This isn’t a budget; it is a blueprint to bankruptcy. The American people know what it means to live on a budget and deserve better. As East Alabama’s working families know, Washington doesn’t have a revenue problem, it has a spending problem.” -###-
03.04.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers invited high school students across East Alabama today to participate in the 33rd Annual Congressional Art Contest that will be held at the Isabel Anderson Comer Museum and Art Center in Sylacauga later this spring. Over the past 32 years, the Congressional Art Contest has been held in 400 Congressional districts across the country for high school students. When visiting the United States Capitol and walking underground from the Cannon House Office Building to the Capitol, artwork from the winner in each participating Congressional district hangs along the corridor. “The Third Congressional District Art Contest provides a unique opportunity for high school students to showcase their artistic skills and have the chance to have their masterpiece displayed in our nation’s capital. I hope we will have students from all 13 counties in the Third District participate,” Rogers said. This year the judges will pick the top five pieces of artwork that will be posted on Congressman Rogers’ official Facebook page so constituents can help vote on their favorite piece of art. The artwork with most likes will win First Place. The overall winner will win a trip to Washington, D.C. and all of artists with artwork in the top five will win a cash prize. To learn more, visit www.mike-rogers.house.gov or call the Washington office at (202)-225-3261. - ### -
02.27.2014	Fighting for the long-term strength and security of East Alabama’s vital military installations is “one of my number one missions,” says Congressman Mike Rogers. This week, Rogers continued that fight by meeting with key military officers that oversee the Anniston Army Depot. MG Michael Terry, Commanding General, TACOM Life Cycle Management Command has direct command over the Depot. General Dennis L. Via, the Commanding General of the U.S. Army Materiel Command has overall control over the Army depot system and maintenance. Rogers met with both leaders to continue ongoing discussions of the strategic importance of the Anniston Army Depot (ANAD) to our nation’s warfighters and to the Army. Rogers met with MG Terry to discuss out year funding for the Depot and the general health of what is called the Army’s “organic base.” This refers to Army owned and operated installations like ANAD which overhaul and upgrade key weapons systems for our troops. Rogers says he is always on the lookout for ways to help ensure facilities like the Depot maintain and grow their missions, especially in times of tight defense budgets. Rogers also had the chance to visit with Gen. Via, who oversees Army logistics, materiel readiness and all depots, this morning at a breakfast meeting of the House Depot Caucus. “I was glad to have the opportunity to once again connect with both MG Terry and Gen. Via this week to discuss the importance of the Depot to our men and women in uniform and reiterated my ongoing support for this and other vital military installations,” Rogers said. Rogers serves as Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee. -###-
02.26.2014	Recently, you may have seen President Obama bypassing Congress – yet again. He is at least keeping one promise –he will not hesitate to bypass Congress to implement his policies. The Administration announced mid-February it would be postponing a key provision of the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare, by delaying the employer health care insurance mandate by another year. This means employers with 50 to 99 workers will be given a second year delay until 2016 to comply with the lengthy list of Obamacare regulations. On the surface, you might think this doesn’t make sense: why is the president delaying another key part of his signature health care law? I believe the answer is the Administration knows the law will hurt our small and medium sized businesses – which are the heartbeats of our local economies. To test this idea, I asked constituents on a live Tele-town Hall meeting this week what they thought of the most recent Obamacare delay. Of those who participated in the survey, 78 percent believed it was because Obamacare would hurt jobs, versus 22 percent who thought it would give employers more time to prepare. I have heard stories of East Alabamians who say they have benefitted from Obamacare. But those stories are far outweighed by the negative accounts, which for example I heard this week during a meeting with employees and officials at Ajin USA in Chambers County. They brought up their concerns about Obamacare and its impact on their employees. With the continued uncertainty surrounding the law, job creators like this are nervous, and they should be. I will continue to fight against this flawed law. As always, I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Contact me on my website at mike-rogers.house.gov and sign up for my eNewsletter. You can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest, Tumblr and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
02.24.2014	East Alabama’s growing automotive manufacturing economy is providing increasing numbers of good paying jobs, and Congress should do all it can to help support its continued growth. Those were among the issues discussed today as Congressman Mike Rogers visited the AJIN USA Plant, Southeast Regional Center in Cusseta, Alabama, to meet with employees and leaders of the plant as well as take a quick tour of the facility. This automotive industry manufacturing plant in Chambers County specializes in metal parts stamping and robotic welding, and serves both Kia Motor Manufacturing Georgia and Hyundai Motor Manufacturing Alabama. “January’s jobs report was another disappointment, and it is absolutely critical Congress remains focused on helping companies like East Alabama’s auto manufacturers create and keep good-paying jobs. I was pleased to have the chance to visit AJIN USA and hear directly from them their concerns. I appreciate the time they took out of their busy schedules to visit with me,” Rogers said. Rogers said he was impressed by AJIN USA’s hard-working employees and the positive impact the plant has had on employment opportunities in the Chambers County area. In addition, Rogers and plant officials discussed the growing burden of Federal regulations on our economy, as well as the rising cost of health care under Obamacare and its impact on their work force. - ### -
02.12.2014	Reacting to growing concerns about Executive Orders signed by President Obama, Congressman Mike Rogers said he has cosponsored a bill he hopes will curb the ability of the president to make administrative changes to laws. H. Res. 442, the S.T.O.P. (Stop This Overreaching Presidency) Resolution, would require the House of Representatives to seek legal action against administrative changes to specific laws passed by Congress, including the Affordable Care Act, administrative amnesty for illegal aliens and changes to mandatory work requirements for certain government benefits, if those changes were not approved by Congress first. “As the president said in his State of the Union speech, it is clear he is ready to bypass Congress to get his policies in place. From administrative delays in Obamacare to advocating for amnesty for illegal immigrants, he has shown he will act alone. With this resolution, Congress is saying it will challenge those administrative changes which ultimately could be settled by the courts.” H. Res. 442 has over 100 cosponsors and would use the House budget to fund the legal challenges. -###-
02.12.2014	All of us across East Alabama are wondering recently if our economy is showing signs of life or not. On the heels of December’s disappointing jobs report, January’s jobs report proved to be equally disappointing. Only 113,000 jobs were added across the country which continues our concerns over the direction our economy is headed. House Republicans remain focused on passing bills that could help add jobs to our struggling economy. Disappointingly, Senate Democrats and the president continue to oppose important House-passed jobs legislation. On top of the jobs reports, you may have seen more disturbing news about Obamacare’s impact on jobs. A recent non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) report found that by 2017, Obamacare would push two million employees out of the workforce and 2.5 million employees out of the workforce over the next decade. These forecasted unemployment numbers coupled with our current economic climate don’t give most folks across East Alabama or our nation a lot of faith in our economy’s future. We already knew the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare, was a very flawed law, but now also knowing it could displace more people from good paying jobs just brings more uncertainty. I still believe Obamacare should be repealed and replaced with common-sense solutions that help expand our nation’s health care coverage. Congress is debating alternatives now, and I am monitoring those proposals. Until a better idea emerges, I will continue to fight against Obamacare and the devastating impact it is having on families and jobs. As always, I want to hear from you on this or any issue. Contact me on my website at mike-rogers.house.gov and sign up for my eNewsletter. You can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest, Tumblr and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
02.11.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today after voting against raising the debt limit. S. 540, the Debt Limit Extension, passed the House of Representatives without his support. Rogers said he could not support raising the debt ceiling because the legislation does not contain reforms that would also cut spending. “I could not support raising our nation’s debt limit without cutting spending first. Congress must get its fiscal house in order and make the tough spending decisions before passing legislation to further add to our debt.” -###-
02.11.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers invited residents of East Alabama today to contact his D.C. office to help plan their upcoming trips to our nation’s capital as tour season gets ready to kick off this spring. “We love having folks from home stop by the office for a visit and are happy to help set up tours of the U.S. Capitol building,” Rogers said. The tour requests should be set up in advance of the trip by contacting the Washington, D.C. office at 202.225.3261 or by visiting http://mike-rogers.house.gov/constituent-services/tours for more information. -###-
02.10.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today after the Obama Administration unilaterally delayed yet another key provision of the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare. Rogers said the Obama Administration again is bypassing Congress by deciding not to enforce the employer health insurance mandate for a second straight year. “Last week it was the Congressional Budget Office report which said Obamacare would push 2.5 million workers over the next decade out of the workforce. This week the Obama Administration is delaying a part of the employer mandate for a second year, because they know the law will hurt working families and our job creators. I believe these two incidents are just further proof that this law is a failure and call on President Obama to work with Congress to repeal this deeply flawed law.” -###-
02.10.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers announced today that the deadline for applying for summer internships in his offices will be this Friday, February 14th, 2014. The internship program is designed to offer select college students a hands-on opportunity to learn about the legislative process, as well as the operations of a Congressional office. To be considered for an internship, students must submit a current resume, cover letter and short writing sample to the Congressman’s intern coordinator. Please visit http://mike-rogers.house.gov/constituent-services/internships for more information, or call Rogers’ Washington, D.C. office at 202.225.3261. -###-
02.05.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today after the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released a report yesterday that the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare, would push two million employees out of the workforce by 2017 and 2.5 million employees over the next decade. “The findings in this report come as no surprise. We’ve known Obamacare is a flawed law that will hurt folks across East Alabama. It has already had a negative impact across the Third District with rising premiums for less health care coverage. “During these uncertain economic times, knowing more jobs will be lost in the future because of this law is discouraging. It is time for Obamacare to be repealed before it damages our country anymore. Congress and the president should come together on common sense solutions to expand health coverage while strengthening our economy.” -###-
01.29.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today after House passage of the House-Senate Conference Report for the Agricultural Act of 2014, known as the Farm Bill. Rogers supported the bill. “Agriculture is the largest industry in Alabama and I think this legislation helps give Alabama farmers and our economy some much-needed relief. “This final version of the Farm Bill provides a five year safety net for America's farmers, ranchers and rural communities as a whole. “The bill also takes strong steps to close loopholes and cut spending in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), while launching a 10 state pilot program to give states the flexibility to implement work requirements in their states. “I am pleased the House passed it today and hope the Senate will soon pass it, so the president may sign it into law.” Rogers served as a Conferee for the Farm Bill and is a senior member of the House Agriculture Committee. -###-
01.29.2014	This past week I had the opportunity to talk about jobs and the state of our economy with a number of businesses across the Third District. In talking with the employees and owners of these facilities, one theme I heard at almost every stop was that folks are uncertain. They’re unsure of what new government-mandated regulations they’ll face in 2014 and long into the future. They don’t see what the Federal government is doing to help improve our economy, or provide certainty for our small businesses. In almost all cases, they’re worried about Obamacare and its effects on their jobs, businesses and their families. Last Tuesday evening, President Obama delivered his State of the Union address to the nation. He spoke about the current state of our country, and shared with America his plans for future initiatives and legislation. Overall, I was extremely dissatisfied with the plans the president outlined in his address. I believe these proposals will increase bureaucratic red tape, stifle job creation and create more and more uncertainty across East Alabama – exactly opposite of what folks are looking for these days. In 2013 the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare, pushed farther into our lives. Its negative impact on individuals’ insurance in East Alabama has driven premium prices up and actual health care coverage down. But what we still don’t know is how these new rates will affect both small and large businesses and their hard-working employees. Folks are nervous, as they should be, and the president has not done much to alleviate these fears. Another issue vital to bringing certainty back to East Alabama is helping folks find a job in their area. Despite figures which show a declining unemployment rate, this past December’s jobs report was the worst in three years. The House of Representatives has passed a number of job-creating bills that could help provide some much-needed certainty in our economy. Yet they are going nowhere as they collect dust sitting in the Senate. These bills would help provide job training, cut red tape, expand American energy options and help create new jobs for Americans. On a recent Tele-town Hall meeting where I heard concerns from constituents across East Alabama, the sentiment was the same. They overwhelmingly believe Obamacare will have a negative impact on their families, and remain very concerned about the direction of our country. As always, I want to hear from you. Contact me at mike-rogers.house.gov and sign up for my eNewsletter. You can also like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest, Tumblr and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
01.24.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers held several meetings recently with small business owners and health care professionals across East Alabama. These groups all shared their concerns with Rogers over the devastating effects Obamacare is having on their employees, patients and the economy in general. “Obamacare is an unworkable law which I have strongly opposed from the beginning. It is hurting folks across East Alabama, forcing families into health care plans that are more expensive with less choice and fewer doctors,” Rogers said. In Sylacauga, Rogers met with hospital executives from across East Alabama. Officials present expressed their ongoing concerns about the financial health of their rural health care facilities. In Auburn, Rogers met with small business owners. Obamacare mandates that companies over 50 employees provide coverage to their employees, and the entrepreneurs present cited the mandate as a costly regulation that discourages investment and hiring. Rogers says the law as written won’t work and has voted over 40 times to defund, delay or repeal it. Recently, Rogers voted for two bills to help rein in Obamacare. H.R. 3811, the Health Exchange Security and Transparency Act of 2014, would require individuals to be notified of security breaches of their personal information under the Federal or state exchanges. In addition, Rogers supported H.R. 3362, the Exchange Information Disclosure Act, which would expand the information provided to the public related to health care exchanges. “It is so important to hear firsthand from real people about the challenges imposed upon them from Washington bureaucrats. I will continue doing all I can to help rein in this costly, burdensome law,” Rogers added. - ### -
01.23.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers sent a letter last week to Janet Yellen, the new Chair of the Federal Reserve. The letter states, “During your confirmation, you noted that the Federal Reserve has been a steadfast steward of our nation’s monetary policy. I urge you to share that record with the American public by opening the books and allowing the U.S. Comptroller General, an independent entity, to fully audit all actions. So much of what the Federal Reserve does is designed to bring certainty and stability to our economy. I cannot think of a better way to add to that certainty than cutting through the cloak of secrecy to ensure openness through auditing.” Rogers is a supporter of H.R. 24 which has over 180 cosponsors and would provide authority for the U.S. Comptroller General to fully audit the Federal Reserve. “I urge Janet Yellen to listen to the consistent message from Congress and the American people and audit the Fed,” Rogers said. Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
01.22.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers had the opportunity to tour KwangSung Corporation today in Dadeville, Alabama. The plant, a supplier to Alabama car manufacturers, currently employs over 300 people and was recently awarded a grant to assist in its expansion. This grant from the local government will add about 100 jobs in Tallapoosa County. “After December’s disappointing jobs report, it is vital for Congress to continue to focus on the needs of jobs-creating businesses. Too many Federal regulations are stifling our economy. KwangSung provides outstanding products and good paying jobs for the hard-working folks of Tallapoosa County and the region. I was delighted to have the chance to hear their concerns, and appreciate the time they took to demonstrate their capabilities to me and my staff,” Rogers said. Rogers said he was impressed by KwangSung and its hard-working employees and is honored to have the opportunity to work on their behalf in Congress. “The automotive industry is a pillar of East Alabama’s economy, and it is critical Congress does all it can to help encourage its success and growth,” he said. In addition to discussing the growing burden of Federal regulations on our economy, Rogers also spoke with officials at the business about the rising cost of healthcare under Obamacare and its impact on their work force. - ### -
01.22.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers toured three local businesses Tuesday during a visit to St. Clair County. The three tours included The Ford Meter Box Company and Royal Sausage Company, both in Pell City, and Buckner Barrel in Springville. These visits, among others Rogers is making across East Alabama, allowed workers and business owners across the Third District to talk directly with Rogers about the challenges they are facing. “This December’s jobs report was one of the worst in three years. Now, more than ever, Congress must do all it can to address the economic concerns of folks across East Alabama. These three businesses provide good-paying jobs for working families in St. Clair County and like so many others are interested in a pro-growth agenda that helps create jobs, reduce burdensome regulations and addresses the growing concerns about Obamacare,” Rogers said. Rogers said he was impressed by the outstanding work done at the three businesses. “We should all be proud of what East Alabama entrepreneurs and workers are doing in this challenging economy,” he said. In addition to discussing the growing burden of Federal regulations on small businesses, Rogers also spoke with the business owners about rising health care costs under Obamacare and those impacts on their employees. - ### -
01.17.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today in advance of Monday’s national day of remembrance recognizing the life and legacy of the late Civil Rights leader, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. “Dr. King was a great leader with a vision to bring all Americans together regardless of their differences. He inspired so many across our great state and our nation with his dream of equality for all. Let us all pause once again at this important time to remember Dr. King, the life he led and his legacy that will live on forever,” Rogers said. - ### -
01.15.2014	With the new year in full swing, Obamacare is continuing to have a devastating impact on many folks across East Alabama. Working families are seeing rising premium costs. Others are being forced into new insurance plans with different coverage, less choice and fewer doctors. President Obama’s broken promise, “If you like your health care plan, you can keep it,” continues ringing in our ears, but those words still remain untrue. Hard-working folks should be able to keep their current plans and doctors they know and trust. When it comes to our personal health, wouldn’t we know what is best for us over what the Obamacare bureaucrats think is best for us? Obamacare is a trainwreck and I have voted repeatedly to repeal, defund, dismantle or delay it. It just won’t work. As Congress started the Second Session of the 113th Congress last week, I was able to support another piece of legislation that would help fix yet another disastrous part of Obamacare. H.R. 3811, Health Exchange Security and Transparency Act of 2014, which passed the House, would require that individuals be notified by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) within 48 hours of any breach of security of their personal information under the Federal or state exchanges. This legislation simply instructs the Federal government to alert those who may be susceptible to identity theft because of government-run health care sites. Yet President Obama issued a veto threat to this legislation that alerts the American public when an unsecured government website loses personal and confidential information. Why? Perhaps the law’s supporters are afraid to debate any changes because they’re afraid it could get repealed altogether. Contact me at mike-rogers.house.gov and sign up for my eNewsletter. Like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest, Tumblr and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
01.11.2014	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today regarding the passing of former Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon on Saturday. "I was saddened to learn of the passing of Former Prime Minister Sharon. He spent much of his life fighting tirelessly for Israel both in the military and as an elected official. "Israel is our closest ally in that region and Sharon made great strides to further strengthen the Israeli-American relationship. He will be dearly missed," Rogers said. -###-
12.13.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after voting in support of the Fiscal Year 2014 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which passed the House of Representatives today after being negotiated between the House and the Senate Armed Services Committees. “The NDAA is critical to our national security. The world remains a dangerous place and this bill plays a vital part in guiding our military. I am pleased to see passage of this important bill after a lot of hard work and many long hours,” Rogers said. “When it comes to our nation’s defense, so many of the President’s policies have been a disaster– from his kowtowing to Russia to his interim deal with Iran, which will guarantee that state obtains a nuclear weapon. Our defenses and deterrent are more important than ever.” As Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee, Rogers worked to ensure the ongoing modernization of our missile defense, as well as our nuclear and space forces. In addition, he continued his longstanding efforts to help strengthen vital military facilities across East Alabama like the Anniston Army Depot, Maxwell Air Force Base, and Fort Benning. Within the Strategic Forces subcommittee’s jurisdiction, the bill includes provisions authored by Rogers to ensure the United States is not relying on the space capabilities of China and to prohibit Russia from using U.S. soil for Russian satellite ground stations. Additionally, the bill prohibits the exchange of sensitive U.S. missile defense technology with Russia and prohibits the integration of Chinese missile defense technology with U.S. missile defenses, as could be the result of the proposed procurement of such technology by the Republic of Turkey. In addition, it fully funds the B61 Life Extension Program which is vital to our national security and an important component of both the U.S. strategic deterrent and the extended deterrence guarantees we provide to our allies in Europe and Asia. The bill also makes clear that Congress will not provide any funding to implement nuclear force reductions under the New START Treaty unless Congress is fully briefed on the Administration’s plans. The legislation increases funding for missile defense by $358 million above the President’s request, including $188 million for Israeli cooperative missile defense programs, including Iron Dome, to ensure the security of our most important allies. The bill also provides the continued support and advancement of key national security space programs. -###-
12.11.2013	U.S. Rep. Mike Rogers (R-AL), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, announced today legislation was included in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Section 1602) to impose new restrictions on President Obama to limit his ability to approve locating ground-stations for Russia’s GLONASS system in the United States, as the State Department had reportedly proposed to do. GLONASS is a Russian competitor to the U.S. Air Force’s Global Positioning System (GPS) and is known to be a personal priority of Russian President Vladimir Putin. Locating Russian-controlled global satellite ground monitoring stations in the United States creates the risk that Russia could locate electronic intelligence gathering equipment in those ground stations. This Russian proposal is reportedly backed by the State Department but has drawn the concerns of the Department of Defense (DOD) and the Intelligence Community (IC). Rogers was the first Member of Congress to challenge this Russian proposal when he sent a letter in early November to Secretary Hagel, Secretary Kerry and General Clapper expressing his concerns over this issue and referencing the concerns of the DOD and IC. “It is unconscionable to me that the State Department would consider allowing Russia to locate these capabilities on our soil. Any one of my kids would have no problem seeing the risks. I am pleased I was able to ensure this legislation included in the NDAA,” Rogers said. The provision would be in effect until 2019, ensuring this protection lasts until President Obama leaves office. The House is expected to take up the NDAA this week. -###-
12.11.2013	The Christmas season is in full swing and across East Alabama the giving spirit is alive and well. Each year around the holidays, I like to take the opportunity to highlight a few of the great works going on across our area. The following examples are just a sampling of people giving of their time and gifts this year. As anyone can see from this sampling, folks across our state are always willing to help their neighbor all year long. This November, Yarbrough Elementary School students in Auburn spent their afternoon making decorations for East Alabama Medical Center’s Pediatric Unit. Students hoped to bring some joy to the patients with their cheerful decorations. In Pell City, the Leadership St. Clair Class of 2013 and the Pell City Garden Club joined forces this Spring to obtain and dedicate a Blue Star Marker for the Col. Robert L. Howard Veterans Home. The Blue Star Marker is a tribute to all those who serve in the Armed Forces. In LaFayette, Ms. Carolyn Edge Wheeler has dedicated herself to the upkeep of the town’s historic Square and City Cemetery. She and her team of volunteers have selflessly maintained LaFayette and collected donations for its upkeep. In St. Clair County, 55 Gorbel employees sent heartfelt Holiday cards to unknown soldiers and Veterans. These warm messages thank the troops for their sacrifices while wishing them Happy Holidays. And in Macon County, I had the unique opportunity to present a Congressional Gold Medal to Mr. Robert Freeman, a surviving member of the Montford Point Marines. His service and sacrifice is something we all can admire. May these selfless acts be examples of how we should live all year long. Merry Christmas to you and your families! Contact me on this or any issue at mike-rogers.house.gov, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest, Tumblr and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
11.22.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers is objecting to an expected announcement today by the Administration that would delay the open enrollment date of Obamacare for 2015 by a month. Rogers pointed out it just happens the delay will push the current 2014 deadline from October 15 to November 15, just after the midterm elections. “President Obama continues to play shameful political games with his failing healthcare law. This most recent move could keep the American public from fully seeing the financial impact of Obamacare on their lives at an important time. Rogers said an American Enterprise Institute (AEI) study estimates that up to 100 million Americans employed by small businesses could lose their coverage during open enrollment in 2014 as a result of Obamacare and the loss of the special exemption for businesses given by the Administration for this year. “By delaying the next enrollment date, I believe President Obama is intentionally trying to deny Americans adequate information about their health insurance to keep his flawed law in place. As we have seen already this year, Obamacare is a monumental disaster and should be repealed before it imposes even more damage to American citizens and our nation's economy. “We have seen this type of alarming behavior by the Obama Administration before. The failure of Administration officials to come clean with the American people in the aftermath of the murder of the American Ambassador and staff by terrorists in Benghazi, Libya is one example. Another is the targeting of Tea Party groups by IRS officials. Both demonstrate the willingness of the Administration to use their powers to withhold information from the American people for what appears to be for political purposes. The American people and our nation deserve much better," Rogers said. Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
11.15.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers said he was pleased to see the passage of H.R. 3350, the Keep Your Health Plan Act of 2013, in the House of Representatives today. This bill, if passed by the Senate and signed by the president, would allow health care plans on the individual market to remain available so people across East Alabama can have the option to keep their current health care plans. Rogers was a cosponsor of the legislation introduced by Rep. Fred Upton (R-MI). “The passage of the Keep Your Health Plan Act could help remedy a huge problem with Obamacare. Although the President promised time and time again Americans could keep their health plans, on October 1st, many people received letters from their health plan providers that stated the opposite. This bill will help fix that problem by allowing people to keep their current plans. “Americans are suffering because of the Obamacare disaster and I will continue to work to repeal it. Since the Senate refuses to accept reality that the law is broken, I hope they will quickly act on this bill to help bring some relief to hard-working Americans being hurt by rising healthcare premiums and the loss of their health plans,” Rogers said. Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
11.13.2013	America is over six weeks in to the Obamacare rollout, and things are still a mess. People are still having problems signing up, but even more painful are the letters folks are receiving about the changes to their current health care plans. Every day we are hearing more and more about people’s current health care plans being dropped completely. Because of this, families and individuals are now being forced into different and often times much more expensive health care plans. Many folks across East Alabama may have to make the tough decision to forego their health insurance because of unforeseen increases in the cost of their health care premiums and deductibles. Yet under Obamacare, folks are required to purchase health insurance by March of 2014 to avoid paying a penalty. They just cannot afford any of it. President Obama promised from the beginning that ‘if you like your health care plan, you'll be able to keep your health care plan, period,’ but that has turned out not to be the case. Obamacare has many flaws, but forcing people off their current plans when they were promised they could keep what they had has really hit home. That is why I recently cosponsored H.R. 3350, the Keep Your Health Plan Act. This legislation, introduced by House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), would allow health care plans on the individual market to remain available so people could have the option to keep their current health care plans. This legislation would help ease some of the current pain and confusion across East Alabama for those hard-working families being forced into different health care plans. Although this bill would help in the short term, there is no substitute for getting rid of Obamacare altogether. I will continue to work toward that goal. As always, please feel free to contact me on this or any issue at mike-rogers.house.gov, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest, Tumblr and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
11.08.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers met today with his Third District Veterans Advisory Committee in Tuskegee. This volunteer panel, made up of Veterans from across the Third District, advises Rogers on issues important to Veterans and their families. This meeting was held after Congressman Rogers presented the Congressional gold medal to Mr. Robert Freeman, a Veteran who earned the honor during his time as a Montford Point Marine. During the meeting, Rogers and the advisory committee listened to a presentation and update from Mr. James R. Talton, Director of the Central Alabama Veteran Health Care Systems (CAVHCS). “Monday we will honor and remember all who have served our country on Veteran’s Day. I cannot think of a more appropriate time to host a meeting of some of Alabama’s finest Veterans to receive an update from Mr. Talton and to discuss ongoing issues Veterans are facing that need to be addressed in Washington. “The brave men and women in uniform who currently serve and have served sacrifice daily on our behalf. I hope we will continue to honor them and remember the ones who have paid the ultimate sacrifice not only on Veteran’s Day, but every day. Without their selfless willingness to serve, we would not have the same freedoms we enjoy today,” Rogers said. Rogers thanked the Veterans for serving on his committee. “I appreciate these proud Veterans taking time out of their schedules to continue to help advise me on critically important issues to our Veterans across East Alabama.” The Veterans Advisory Committee meets several times each year across East Alabama and is made up of Veterans from the 13 counties in the Third District. Rogers serves as Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee and is a senior member of the House Agriculture and House Armed Services Committees. -### -
11.04.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers announced today that the deadline for applying for summer internships in his offices will be February 14th, 2014. The internship program is designed to offer select college students a hands-on opportunity to learn about the legislative process, as well as the operations of a Congressional office. To be considered for an internship, students must submit a current resume, cover letter and short writing sample to the Congressman’s intern coordinator. Please visit http://mike-rogers.house.gov/constituent-services/internships for more information, or call Rogers’ Washington, D.C. office at 202.225.3261. -###-
10.31.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers announced his support today for H.R. 3350, the Keep your Health Plan Act of 2013, a bill that would allow health care plans on the individual market to remain available so people across East Alabama could have the option to keep their current health care plans. Under the Affordable Care Act, many insurance providers are offering different plans to comply with the new guidelines and cancelling current plans consumers are currently enrolled in. “Time and time again, President Obama promised folks across the country they could keep their health care plans under the Affordable Care Act. However, I have heard from numerous folks in East Alabama who are being forced into new plans with higher premiums after being told their old plans don’t meet the new requirements of the law. “The Keep Your Health Plan Act, if passed, could help remedy this problem, and I hope the House will debate it quickly,” Rogers said. In his bi-weekly op-ed this week, Rogers noted responses he received from many constituents about their rising health care premiums under Obamacare. Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
10.30.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following comments today after the first Conference meeting on the Farm Bill. “As we begin the conference committee on H.R. 2642, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act of 2013, I am honored to be working to resolve differences between the Farm Bills passed by each Chamber,” Rogers said. Alabama is home to over 48,000 farms and Alabama’s agricultural exports total $1 billion a year. It is a massive industry for the economy and is vital these folks have a voice in Congress to look out for what’s in their best interest. “The negotiations we face will be tough. There are reforms we must consider in order to make these programs more sustainable and to be responsible stewards of taxpayer money. I believe we can work through these differences in a timely and bipartisan manner to achieve real results that will help our farmers and the agriculture industry over the next five years. Hopefully our efforts will demonstrate that Congress can function on behalf of the greater good of our nation. I look forward to beginning work,” Rogers added. Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
10.30.2013	The deeply flawed launch of Obamacare’s online enrollment is now all over the news after taking a back seat to coverage of the government shutdown. A month into the rollout, the evidence is starting to pile up – Obamacare is a disaster. Folks are still unable to get logged in to the site online, which under the law, was supposed to be a key feature of expanding insurance coverage. Also, according to a Health and Human Services report last month, Alabama has very few insurance plan choices, which also shows the law’s shortcomings. I have voted more times than I can count to get rid of Obamacare because I think the law is unworkable, will damage the economy and end up hurting working folks. I will continue to fight against Obamacare. Anxiety is rising over looming deadlines. For example, to have coverage starting January 1, everyone must sign up online by December 15. The law’s supporters, including the president, have not agreed to even a year delay in the individual mandate to purchase health insurance, despite all the uncertainties and concerns. Open season for enrollment lasts until March 31. At first, if you hadn’t signed up by February 15, you would face a penalty, but the White House has delayed that deadline to March 31. How is any of this fair? And if trying to navigate this terribly complex law isn’t nightmare enough, the premiums because of the Affordable Care Act have risen across East Alabama significantly. Recently on my Facebook page, I asked folks to let me know if their premiums were affected. One person’s premiums will go up $200 monthly and they’ve decided to go without health insurance when January arrives. Another person’s premiums will rise $300 per month. For another individual, their premiums will go up $130 a month and they said they just cannot afford the coverage with the higher price. Another family was told their policy doesn’t meet the requirements of the new law, but they will be switched to a new policy at an increase of $740 a month. The law hurts folks across East Alabama because it is not affordable or fair. Insured people are willing to become uninsured and pay the fine because they cannot afford the escalated prices of their new premiums under Obamacare. This new law, along with its website, has proved once again to be a ‘train wreck.’ President Obama has already delayed portions of the law, and Republicans are beginning investigations into its many shortcomings. I fully expect those hearings to reveal yet more problems. As always, please feel free to contact me at mike-rogers.house.gov, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest, Tumblr and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
10.29.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement regarding the importance of budget negotiators addressing our growing list of national security needs. “Indiscriminate budget reductions are devastating our national security. Whether it is funding depot level maintenance to ensure the readiness of our military or modernizing our strategic weapons, these poorly managed budget decisions are quickly turning the most powerful military in the world into a hollow force,” he said. Today, Rogers chaired a hearing on the modernization of our nuclear deterrent, which, like much of the rest of America’s military, has been deferred far too long. “Our nuclear weapons, missile defenses and space-based sensors are all suffering under the President’s sequestration. We have vital modernization programs that need to occur to these forces. At the same time, everything from training flight hours for the Air Force to refitted Abrams tanks for the Army to enough carrier groups to project American power around the world. The current downward trend will devastate our nation’s security and the men and women who serve in uniform and the civilians that support them across the country, including at Anniston Army Depot, Maxwell Air Force base and around Alabama. Congress must find a way to fund our vital priorities that better balances our need to cut spending while also keeping our military strong,” Rogers said. Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
10.28.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers reminded any graduating seniors for 2014 interested in attending one of the U.S. Service Academies that they should be completing applications and turning them into one of his district offices soon. To be considered for a nomination for appointment to any of the service academies, one must fill out the applications and return the completed packets to one of Rogers’ district offices. The applications can be sent to: Congressman Mike Rogers Congressman Mike Rogers Attn: Service Academy Application Attn: Service Academy Application 1129 Noble Street, Suite 104 1819 Pepperell Parkway, Suite, 203 Anniston, AL 36201 Opelika, AL 36801 The deadline for receipt of these applications is December 31, 2013. Please visit www.mike-rogers.house.gov/constituent-services/academy-nominations with any questions, or call Rogers’ Washington, D.C. office at 202.225.3261. -###-
10.17.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today after HR 2775 passed the House of Representatives. "Tonight, the House and Senate both passed legislation to temporarily extend our debt limit and reopen the Federal government. This bill passed without my support, in part, because it is a just short-term fix, does not move our country in the right direction and does not address the very concerning shortfalls facing our National Security." Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees.
10.14.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers announced today he was selected to serve as a Conferee for the Farm Bill. “Agriculture is a $1 billion industry for my home state of Alabama and provides good-paying jobs for folks across the country. After almost five years of talks and extensions, the House and Senate will work to finalize a new Farm Bill. I am pleased to have the opportunity to represent the interests of the Alabama agriculture industry on the Farm Bill Conference Committee. I look forward to negotiating a long-term package that will help bring certainty to farmers, reduce spending and benefit Alabama,” Rogers said. Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
10.02.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers sent a letter today to Dan Strodel, Chief Administrative Officer of the U.S. House of Representatives, asking his congressional paycheck be withheld until the Federal government shutdown ends and is open again for business. The letter states, “During the current lapse in appropriations please withhold my pay until the government is operating again.” Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
09.30.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after the announcement that Congressman Spencer Bachus (AL-06) will not seek re-election in 2014. “Spencer has been not only a good friend to me, but a mentor since my very first congressional campaign. He has represented our great state well and I will miss him and his leadership of our delegation.” -###-
09.24.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers gave local residents an update on what’s going on in Washington at the Alexander City Chamber of Commerce Quarterly Luncheon today. Topics ranged from the House of Representatives’ successful passage of legislation that would defund Obamacare to the Farm Bill to Immigration. “This past week, the House of Representatives voted to defund Obamacare while still providing funding for the Federal government. Alabamians have said over and over they do not want Obamacare. People here at home are already feeling its disastrous effects. Now it’s up to the Senate to protect Americans from this ‘train wreck’,” Rogers said after the gathering. “I remain hopeful House and Senate leaders will reach a responsible compromise to avoid a government shutdown.” Rogers also touched on other important topics facing Congress including the Farm Bill and what’s next in the immigration debate as well as discussing the NSA and IRS investigations. Rogers says he proud of the Alexander City Chamber of Commerce’s commitment to the area and enjoyed getting a chance to speak with the group today. “I always enjoy being able to talk face to face with folks across East Alabama. It is encouraging to see these folks meet together to discuss important issues,” Rogers said. “I appreciate everyone who took the time to come and express their concerns.” #-#-#
09.19.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after passage of H.R. 3102, which passed the House of Representatives. "This bill will help reduce spending and allow food stamps to be used in the way they were intended to be used: for those who need it most. Today’s legislation would reform the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), formerly known as the food stamp program, and save taxpayers almost $40 billion over the next decade. SNAP does play an essential role in helping those in need, but the waste and abuse of this program originally designed to help the very poor has ballooned out-of-control. Spending on the SNAP program has more than doubled since 2007, and I believe by re-enforcing the work provisions of the 1996 Welfare Reform law which were relaxed in President Obama's Stimulus bill, we can help make this important safety net program more fiscally responsible over the long term." Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
09.17.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks on the 226th anniversary of the adoption of the US Constitution. “I stand today with my fellow Americans in celebration of the 226th anniversary of the signing of the United States Constitution. “Over 200 years ago, our Founding Fathers met and drafted this important document which continues to serve as the blueprint for our great country. Like all freedom-loving Americans, I pledge to continue to follow and uphold the ideals in this document that protect our American values we hold so dear,” Rogers said. -###-
09.11.2013	As Congress returns to Washington to begin work on some important issues facing our country, I wanted to pause and reflect on the time I spent across East Alabama and give an update on what I heard folks talking about in the Third District. I had the opportunity to hold “Congress on Your Corner” events in several parts of the district. These public town hall-style meetings allow me the chance to hear directly from you. The topics on the minds of folks in each area were about the same. The top concerns at each meeting included Obamacare and its implementation, what’s next in the illegal immigration debate and of course, the economy. The fast moving events in Syria, and America’s role in that conflict, also came up. During August, I was also able to meet with city officials, leaders at Anniston Army Depot and held several meetings with constituents in my District Offices in Anniston and Opelika. These meetings gave me a chance to hear what is going on in the different cities and towns that make up the Third District. As I traveled across East Alabama, I was pleased to be able to tour several small businesses in many of our towns which really are the backbone of our local economies. For example, in Montgomery I toured Precision Medical Solutions, which provides Alabamians with orthopedic braces. This is one of so many small businesses that help provide good-paying jobs for hard-working Alabama families. I hope as Congress returns to session, lawmakers on both sides of the aisle can remember folks like the ones I met with back at home. With more important issues facing our country each day, we must remember the concerns of these hard-working Americans. We should also be reminded of the tragedy that struck our nation 12 years ago. September 11th, 2001 is a day that will never be forgotten – in the attacks on our homeland and in the tragic embassy attack in Benghazi, Libya. Although the terrorists tried, and will keep trying, the American spirit will not be crushed. Let us not forget the families whose lives were changed forever, and let us remain steadfast in our dedication to America, the greatest country in the world. As always, please feel free to contact me at mike-rogers.house.gov, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest, Tumblr and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
09.11.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today in remembrance of the 12th anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks and the first anniversary of the deadly attack on Americans in Benghazi, Libya. “No matter where you were on September 11, 2001, we all remember when we got the news of the terrorist attacks on our homeland. Last year, we received more tragic news as we lost American lives in the Benghazi, Libya attack. Despite their cowardly attacks, the resolve and spirit of our nation will never be diminished. On this September 11th and as with every day, I hope we will all remember those lives lost, the families whose worlds were destroyed and keep praying for our great country. God Bless America.” Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
09.04.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers held a “Congress on Your Corner” public meeting at the Ashland Town Hall today, taking questions from constituents. “Soon, Congress will consider controversial issues which will have a big impact on our economy and hard-working folks in East Alabama,” Rogers said after the event. Rogers discussed Obamacare and the impact it will have on the area. “President Obama’s healthcare law is unworkable, and it’s obvious the Administration knows this given all the delays and waivers. Congress should take every opportunity, both big and small, to stop Obamacare,” Rogers said. Rogers says he enjoys hosting these public meetings to give constituents the opportunity to discuss issues important to them directly with their representative. “Hosting these events gives me the chance to hear first-hand what is on the minds of folks across East Alabama. So many people are concerned with what’s going on in Washington these days as they should be, and these public meetings help me take those concerns back to Congress to continue fighting for East Alabama’s interests,” Rogers said. “I appreciate everyone who took the time to come and express their concerns.” Rogers held a Third Congressional District Agriculture Advisory Committee meeting earlier in the day in Clay County with local farmers and leaders in the agriculture industry from across East Alabama to discuss the Farm Bill. -###-
09.04.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers hosted a Third Congressional District Agriculture Advisory Committee meeting today with local farmers and leaders in the agriculture industry from across East Alabama. Rogers regularly meets with them to discuss important issues facing the state’s number one industry. “The agriculture industry is a giant in Alabama employing over 475,000 folks and generating billions for our state’s economy. As a senior member of the Agriculture Committee, I have been holding these type meetings for years so I can hear directly from our farmers what concerns they are having,” Rogers said after the event. Rogers discussed H.R. 2642, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act of 2013 (the FARM bill), which passed the House of Representatives in July with Rogers’ support. He said the bill offers certainty to our farmers and helps ensure America’s food will be grown in America. Rogers also discussed the importance to reform the out-of-control spending in the Food Stamp program. He talked about the issues the House of Representatives and Agriculture committee will deal with for the September 30th deadline. The event was held in Clay County at Dewberry Farms. “I appreciate everyone who took the time to come and express their concerns and ideas,” Rogers added. Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee on Armed Services and a senior member of the Homeland Security Committee. -###-
08.20.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers spoke about the importance of creating and keeping good-paying jobs throughout Chambers County and all of East Alabama at the Greater Valley Chamber of Commerce meeting in held today in Lanett. “It is critical the Federal government gets out of the way of our private sector job creators, like so many that have located here in Chambers County. The implementation of Obamacare is one of the biggest threats to job creators. Congress must also do all it can to help support our small businesses,” Rogers said after the gathering. “Chambers County and many other areas across East Alabama have been fortunate to have many good new jobs come from the automotive industry, and I hope there will be many more opportunities for further economic growth,” Rogers added. Rogers says he is impressed by the Greater Valley Chamber of Commerce’s hard work and dedication and enjoyed getting a chance to visit with the group today. “Being able to talk face to face with folks across East Alabama is critical. It is encouraging to see these folks meet together to discuss the issues most important to them,” Rogers said. “I appreciate everyone who took the time to come and express their concerns.” At the meeting, Rogers also spoke about the detrimental effect the Senate-passed Amnesty bill could have on East Alabama businesses. #-#-#
08.19.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers held a “Congress on Your Corner” town hall meeting in Oxford at the Civic Center today, taking questions from constituents and discussing everything from the impact of furloughs at Anniston Army Depot (ANAD) to Obamacare to the state of East Alabama’s economy. “Recently, the Department of Defense (DOD) reduced the number of furlough days to six days which is still too many in my opinion. The DOD has failed to properly use the flexibility Congress granted it in managing its budget. These furloughs at facilities like ANAD will end up costing the taxpayer more in the long-term and could hurt the military readiness of our country,” Rogers said of the recent announcement. Rogers also discussed Obamacare and the impact it will have on the area. “President Obama has basically admitted his healthcare law is unworkable given all the delays and waivers. Congress should take every opportunity, both big and small, to stop Obamacare,” Rogers said. Rogers says he enjoys hosting these public meetings to give constituents the opportunity to discuss issues important to them directly with their representative. “Hosting these events gives me the chance to hear first-hand what is on the minds of folks across East Alabama. So many people are concerned with what’s going on in Washington these days as they should be, and these public meetings help me take those concerns back to Congress to continue fighting for East Alabama’s interests,” Rogers said. “I appreciate everyone who took the time to come and express their concerns.”
08.14.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers held a “Congress on Your Corner” town hall meeting in Talladega today, taking questions from constituents and discussing everything from the recent IRS scandals to Obamacare to the state of East Alabama’s economy. “Soon, Congress will consider controversial issues like the future of Obamacare which will have a big impact on our economy and hard working folks in East Alabama,” Rogers said after the gathering. “President Obama has basically admitted his healthcare law is unworkable given all the delays and waivers. Congress should take every opportunity, both big and small, to stop Obamacare.” Rogers says he enjoys hosting these public meetings to give constituents the opportunity to discuss issues important to them directly with their representative. “Hosting these events gives me the chance to hear first-hand what is on the minds of folks across East Alabama. So many people are concerned with what’s going on in Washington these days as they should be, and these public meetings help me take those concerns back to Congress to continue fighting for East Alabama’s interests,” Rogers said. “I appreciate everyone who took the time to come and express their concerns.” During the day, Rogers also toured DaVita Dialysis, met with Talladega City Manager Brian Muenger and sat for an interview at local radio station WYEA in Sylacauga. -###-
08.12.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers sent a letter this week to Kimberly D. Bose, the Secretary of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), asking she reconsider FERC’s decision that rejected a proposal to extend Lake Martin’s pool elevation during the summer and fall and raise it during the winter. The letter states, “I am writing to request that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission reconsider its initial decision to reject Alabama Power Company’s proposal to increase and improve recreational opportunities at Lake Martin by raising the pool elevation three feet in the winter and extending the summer pool elevation into the fall when water is available. “These changes were requested by property and business owners around Lake Martin, and they were studied thoroughly during Alabama Power’s relicensing process. With over 75 percent of Lake Martin and 677 miles of its shoreline in my district, I am fully aware of Lake Martin’s importance to the east central part of Alabama. The proposals included in Alabama Power’s application will have a dramatic economic effect on this region of the state and they will increase recreational opportunities and enjoyment on and around Lake Martin, without compromising flood control responsibilities downstream.” Rogers reiterated today the lake’s vital economic development role in the region. “Lake Martin drives the local economy in Tallapoosa County and the region and it only makes sense to extend its recreational use. This is another example of Federal regulators standing in the way of local economic progress. I hope FERC will immediately reconsider the proposal,” Rogers said. Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
08.01.2013	As we enter the last stretch of summer, energy prices are on the rise and most folks in East Alabama are feeling the pain. With a sluggish economy and millions of Americans still out of work, there’s a solution to help stabilize our energy costs over the long term and increase our chances for energy independence: tap our own domestic energy sources. However, it seems President Obama’s policy agenda is standing in the way of job creation, economic progress and energy independence. The coal industry, for example, provides the largest source of electric power generation in our country and supports thousands of jobs including jobs in Alabama. But the Administration has declared a war on coal. Last month, Daniel P. Schrag, an adviser to the president, was quoted in the New York Times as saying, “a War on Coal is exactly what’s needed.” In fact, just seven of the EPA regulations proposed since President Obama took office could cost as much as $16.7 billion annually once fully implemented. These, along with permitting delays for American mining, are severely hurting the coal industry and jobs. This week, because of a troubling trend of continued government interference against American energy production, I wrote a letter to Gina McCarthy, the new Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. The letter says, “I implore you to work with Congress to reverse course on the EPA’s recent and damaging record of job-threatening regulations and red tape.” And it doesn’t stop with your electric bill. Americans have also been feeling pain at the gas pump. Building the Keystone XL Pipeline is something we can do now to help stabilize gas prices over the long term. Recently, I joined my colleagues to pass H.R. 3, the Northern Route Approval Act. This bill declared a presidential permit wouldn’t be required for the building of the Keystone Pipeline. This pipeline would create an astounding number of jobs while providing North American energy from one of our closest allies, Canada. But President Obama continues to stand in the way. It’s time the President put the American people first. A war on energy is not what we need. We need reliable and affordable energy, good paying American jobs and we have that right here at home. Let’s stabilize energy prices and make America energy independent, in part by advocating for less onerous government regulations. Contact me at mike-rogers.house.gov, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest, Tumblr and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
07.30.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers sent a letter today to Gina McCarthy, the new Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), urging her to reverse course and ensure any new Obama Administration EPA regulations for America’s energy sector do not threaten good paying jobs. The letter states, “In his speech on June 25, 2013, at Georgetown University, President Obama reiterated that he will try and go around Congress and administratively implement many of these potentially devastating rules…..Merely seven of the EPA regulations proposed since President Obama took office, for example, could cost as much as $16.7 billion annually once fully implemented. I believe some of these rules were created to push the American coal industry, in particular, and the thousands of jobs it supports into oblivion.” Rogers was highly critical of President Obama’s willingness to go around Congress to implement his environmental agenda. “Circumventing the constitutional role of Congress is not following the law,” Rogers said. “America is facing a domestic energy revolution that could provide thousands of good paying jobs to hard-working Americans, but to try to take this away with massive new anti-job EPA regulations is simply wrong. I hope Administrator McCarthy will reverse course on the EPA’s recent and damaging record of job-threatening regulations and red tape. In these tough economic times, Americans deserve at least that,” Rogers added. Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
07.30.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL) and Congressman Gerry Connolly (D-VA) announced today they are forming a bi-partisan Congressional caucus focused on the nation’s infrastructure and the growing use of public-private partnerships in building and maintaining it. Known as the Congressional Caucus on Public-Private Partnerships (P3s), or simply the Congressional P3 Caucus, Rogers says he hopes the group will help raise awareness of infrastructure issues and examine public-private partnerships across the country. He says the nation faces a “severe crisis” in infrastructure funding, and keeping these systems up to date in times of tight budgets is critical for growing our economy and creating new jobs for future generations. “Solid infrastructure is a key driver of good jobs and a growing, competitive economy,” Rogers said. “We have an enormous backlog of infrastructure needs all across our country, but the Federal government simply can’t fund them all. Nor should Congress raise taxes. Building and maintaining infrastructure is an issue for both rural and urban areas, and I hope this caucus will help advance the debate in Washington and across the country.” Rogers is a member of the Armed Services, Agriculture and Homeland Security committees and a former state legislator and county commissioner. Rogers says he has seen examples of government partnering with the private sector at military installations in his district. As a former local official, he also says he deeply sympathizes with the pressing needs of state and local officials struggling to maintain, much less build, new infrastructure in times of shrinking Federal budgets. He says the caucus will focus on all types of infrastructure, including defense, energy, technology, transportation and water, among others. Rogers and Connolly say they will seek out other Members of Congress to join the Caucus, as well as involve public and private sector stakeholders. -###-
07.25.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement after the House passed the 2014 Department of Defense (DoD) Appropriations Act which included an amendment that would prohibit sequestration-related furloughs at installations like the Anniston Army Depot for civilian DoD employees paid from the Working Capital Fund Account. “Yesterday with my strong support, the House passed an important amendment to prohibit the DoD from implementing furloughs at Working Capital Fund facilities like the Anniston Army Depot as well as other installations. “I continue to believe the current furloughs are ill-advised and will result in increased costs for the taxpayer while damaging our nation’s military readiness. While this bill is not yet law, I call on the Defense Department to follow Congress’ lead and end these wasteful and inefficient furloughs at facilities like the Anniston Army Depot.” Earlier in the week, Rogers met with Defense Department Comptroller Robert Hale on the furlough issue. He reiterated his belief that the Pentagon is terribly managing its budget and wasting taxpayer dollars in implementing DoD furloughs. Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
07.17.2013	As most folks across East Alabama may have seen recently on the news, the Obama Administration announced it will delay the implementation of the Employer Mandate provisions of Obamacare by a year. The current law requires companies with more than 50 employees to offer insurance to those who work 30 or more hours a week or pay a penalty. I believe this provision, which was supposed to begin in 2014, will further hurt small businesses and is already having an effect on our economy. The Obama Administration is in panic mode trying to implement this unworkable law. Postponing the Employer Mandate is the latest in a series of delays and setbacks. After the president’s announcement, the House decided to support the delay along with a vote to also delay the Individual Mandate. There are at least two approaches to undoing Obamacare: repeal it or delay key parts so that the entire law becomes unworkable. While repealing it is my preferred choice – and I have voted repeatedly to repeal Obamacare – defunding and delaying it are also viable options. Congress should do both. After the announcement of the most recent delay, I wrote to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) to encourage him to bring a vote of full repeal to the Senate floor. The letter states, “Without action from the United States Senate to permanently repeal this unworkable law, our constituents will continue to face the uncertainty and very possible negative effects of the Affordable Care Act.” Unfortunately, the Democratic-led Senate refuses to act. Because of their inaction, Americans are stuck with uncertainty from the Administration. It’s time the Senate put hard-working families first. Obamacare is a train wreck, and America deserves better. By repealing Obamacare, Congress can debate legislation that will help bring down the cost of health care while improving its quality. I will continue to fight against this poorly crafted, broken law. Contact me on this or any issue and sign up for my e-Newsletter at mike-rogers.house.gov, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest, Tumblr and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
07.15.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement regarding the Senate’s recently passed immigration bill. “I strongly oppose the Senate-passed immigration bill and believe it violates the origination clause of the Constitution that requires all bills that would raise revenue to originate in the House of Representatives. This bill, like too many of Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid’s efforts, is full of new taxes. This is yet another glaring example of why the House shouldn’t take up this bill. ” Rogers joined a number of his colleagues on a letter urging the Chairman of the House tax writing committee to refuse the Senate bill on Constitutional grounds. Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
07.11.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement after the House passed the revised Farm Bill today. “The House’s passage of this Farm Bill is an important step towards helping support our Farmers, and ensuring America’s food is grown in America.” Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
07.09.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers sent a letter today to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV), urging him to bring a full repeal vote of the Affordable Care Act to the Senate Floor. After the recent announcement of the Obama Administration’s decision to delay implementation of the 'Employer Mandate' by a year, Rogers’ concerns have continued to grow over what he considers a flawed law. The letter states, “As you know, the United States House of Representatives voted in a bi-partisan manner to repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act…Without action from the United States Senate to permanently repeal this unworkable law, our constituents will continue to face the uncertainty and very possible negative effects of the Affordable Care Act……Undoubtedly, the Administration will continue to delay implementation of sections of this flawed law thereby further creating more unnecessary confusion for the American people.” Rogers said Obamacare is a disaster for our economy and argues it should be repealed fully. “The American people deserve better and this ‘train wreck’ of a law just keeps getting messier. I strongly urge Senator Reid to consider bringing this vote before the Senate, and debate legislation that will help bring down the cost of health care while improving its quality,” Rogers said. Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
06.27.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement after the Senate passed immigration overhaul legislation today. “I am deeply disappointed in the Senate’s decision to pass a comprehensive amnesty bill today. This bill rewards those who have broken our laws and doesn’t do enough to secure our borders in order to prevent future illegal immigration. I will firmly oppose any version of this bill should it come before the House.” Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
06.24.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers sent a letter last week to President Obama, urging the president to nominate a candidate with strong immigration enforcement credentials to lead the Immigration, Customs and Enforcement (ICE) agency. The current agency director, John Morton, announced he will resign in July. Rogers has been a harsh critic of Morton, arguing that under his leadership ICE has allowed a “backdoor amnesty” that is against the law. In his letter to President Obama, Rogers highlighted Morton’s ill-fated decision to release hundreds of illegal immigrants from detention in response to Federal budget cuts. “Director Morton’s “prosecutorial guidance” documents, better known as the Morton Memos, undermined the legislative process and the public’s trust by creating a backdoor path to amnesty. Additionally, his release of known criminal aliens in February was an ill-advised reaction to your sequestration plan and contrary to existing statutory detention requirements,” said Rogers’ letter. Rogers asked for Morton’s resignation in March. “The President has asked Congress to get serious about immigration reform and this important position opening provides him the chance to show he’s finally serious about enforcing our immigration laws. I urge President Obama to nominate someone who will take lead when it comes to immigration enforcement, who will uphold our current immigration laws and someone Americans can trust,” Rogers said. Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
06.20.2013	Folks across East Alabama can’t flip through the television channels without hearing about Washington’s latest debate: immigration reform. Right now our country is home to millions of illegal immigrants. Even though America is a land of immigrants, it’s also a land of laws. People across the world want the opportunity to pursue the American dream and have done so through legal immigration. But having people break the law to enter our country illegally has become an out-of-control crisis. I truly believe no one should be rewarded for this bad behavior, nor be allowed to jump to the front of the line when others are trying to come to our country the right way. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) has promised the Senate will vote on immigration reform by early July. The Senate bill boils down to nothing more than amnesty for those who’ve illegally come to our country, and I will not support it. As of writing, Senator Reid has also decided his comprehensive immigration reform bill won’t include any real measures to further secure our porous borders. That just doesn’t make sense. Over the past four years, I believe President Obama has continued to undercut our immigration enforcement laws already on the books. For example, John Morton, Director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), led an effort to implement parts of the DREAM Act, a proposal that never passed Congress, and wasn’t truthful about releasing thousands of known criminal aliens from ICE lockups in February. As a result, I called on him to resign in March. It just so happens Morton has announced he’ll resign in July. This provides an opportunity for the president to nominate another director. Recently, I wrote President Obama saying if he wants Congress to get serious about immigration reform, he should start by nominating someone who’s serious about enforcing our immigration laws.
06.14.2013	The right for our troops to worship and speak freely of their faith was reaffirmed today, a development Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL) applauded as the House passed a critical military authorization bill. The religious freedom amendment, which Rogers supported, passed overwhelmingly. The amendment would require any meeting between Department of Defense officials and outside groups regarding the creation or enforcement of religious liberty regulations be reported to Congress. In May, Rogers sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel urging the Department of Defense to protect the religious freedom of service members. This letter came after recent reports that the Defense Department is considering policy changes that could make proselytizing an offense under the military justice system, including having senior military officers meet with a group hostile to religious expression. “Our brave men and women in uniform serve our country to protect our freedoms, and it is only right they are allowed to enjoy those same freedoms,” Rogers said. The amendment offered by Rep. Tim Huelskamp (R-KS) to H.R. 1960, the National Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year (FY) 2014. The NDAA also contains other protections on religious liberty that Rogers strongly supports. Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
06.06.2013	Most Americans expect their country to be led by a government that’s honest and accountable. Unfortunately, this Administration continues to show itself as neither. The scandals are mounting. From Benghazi, to the IRS targeting conservative groups, to monitoring emails of reporters, understandably the trust Americans should have in our government is again being shaken. The Obama Administration has yet to be transparent about the attacks on September 11, 2012, when four Americans were killed by terrorists in Benghazi, Libya. No one has gotten to the bottom of it because the Administration hasn’t been forthcoming with information regarding the attack. We should continue to investigate what really happened in Libya. It’s unfortunate we’re spending time and resources searching for answers from our own elected leaders, rather than rallying around the unique brand of American justice for those who wish to do us harm. The IRS scandal is very troubling because one of the ways Americans exercise their First Amendment right to free speech and assembly is by supporting groups sharing their views. Holding tax-exempt groups hostage, simply because of opposing policy views is a tactic worthy of a lesser nation. This includes the Wetumpka Tea Party, whose leader testified before Congress recently. When Lois Lerner came before the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, she decided to take the Fifth Amendment. While that’s her constitutional right, it’s important we find out who directed her to target conservative groups, what the extent of the targeting was, what other information was examined and hold accountable those responsible. Congress is determined to do just that. The American people have a right to know. The IRS has enormous power in our government and this type abuse should make us all wonder what else they are doing. Congress should take a fresh look into the IRS to help ensure they aren’t abusing other powers as well as working to prevent any future missteps. Then there’s the media surveillance scandal involving AP reporters and Fox News. The Justice Department secretly obtained months worth of reporters’ phone records, emails and even security badge use. Not only is this a highly questionable intrusion on our right to free press, but on May 15, Attorney General Holder testified under oath before Congress that he had removed himself from the investigations. But now there’s evidence he might’ve known about the investigations all along. Holder didn’t even respond to a letter from Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) and Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) requesting further information, but instead left it up to a lower level staffer to send a response. Holder already was held in contempt of Congress for his actions during the Operation Fast and Furious debacle. Why would the Administration allow the selling of guns to drug gangs? That question was one Holder refused to give a straight answer. It’s another reason I demanded he resign and be held accountable for his failed leadership. I hope someone will be held accountable soon. Sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, like me on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram at RepMikeRogersAL, on Tumblr at www.repmikerogersal.tumblr.com and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03
06.06.2013	In a speech to the Montgomery Area Chamber of Commerce last week, Congressman Mike Rogers said local communities like Montgomery, Anniston and Phenix City / Columbus must keep up their fights to help protect their local military facilities from any new base closings effort. Rogers said Alabama has been successful in past base closure efforts, known as BRAC, because local communities and stakeholders have worked closely with their Congressional delegation to fight for their bases and their missions. Rogers said the coming fight is different from the last. Last night, for example, Rogers and other members of the Armed Services Committee voted for legislation that bars funds for another round of Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC). He said this is just one effort he and others are undertaking to help protect the critical missions of Alabama’s military facilities, all of which serve critical roles in the readiness of our nation’s warfighters, while acknowledging the military will have to do more with less in coming years. “The Department of Defense under President Obama is incapable of budgeting,” Rogers said. “Now it is botching the flexibility Congress provided it to implement mandatory cuts by insisting on furloughing mission-critical workers. While I don’t think another BRAC is coming in the near future, I believe this legislation speaks to both the lack of trust in the Pentagon’s slip-shod budgeting and the fact the last round of BRAC has cost taxpayers more than it saved.” Rogers said the bill, H.R. 1960, the National Defense Authorization Act, will be brought to the Floor the week of June 10th. The bill directs programs at the Department of Defense. Rogers serves as Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee. -###-
06.04.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers sent a letter today to Kathleen Sebelius, Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, sharing the concerns of East Alabamians over Obamacare and urging repeal of the large and very flawed law before it is fully implemented. The letter states, “In particular, there appears to be growing confusion about higher health insurance premiums, mass compliance confusion, and downright fear for the livelihood of individuals and their families. Additionally, small business owners in my district have told me that this law will prevent them from expanding and providing new jobs in my district. ….. In a recent CNN poll, 54% of Americans said they opposed Obamacare. I do as well.” “Back in Alabama last week, I had the opportunity to hear back from my constituents on one of their top concerns: Obamacare. Folks are scared to death over all the regulations, the red tape, the costs and the real possibility of the detrimental effects it could have on small businesses and their jobs across East Alabama and the country. I voted against Obamacare and have voted to repeal it several times,” Rogers said. Sebelius testified today before the Education and Workforce full committee and caught a lot of heat from Members about how Obamacare is negatively affecting job growth. Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
05.30.2013	Citing the River Region’s success in helping keep Maxwell-Gunter Air Force Base in Montgomery in 2005, Congressman Mike Rogers said today the community must continue its fight should another round of BRAC appear in the next few years and that it should remain vigilant for the battles ahead. Rogers was the guest speaker this morning before a large crowd at the Montgomery Area Chamber of Commerce “Eggs and Issues” breakfast. He said while Congress is steadfastly opposed to another round of BRAC, the community must remain steadfast in its efforts to help protect the base during tightening budgets at the Department of Defense. “Maxwell - Gunter Air Force Base is absolutely critical to the readiness of our nation’s Air Force,” Rogers said. “The community knows it, your Congressional delegation knows it and the Pentagon knows it. We must continue to speak with one voice in fighting for this important base to help ensure it continues its critical mission for our men and women in uniform.” During the speech, Rogers also provided an update on recent events in Washington including protecting our Second Amendment rights, the IRS scandal, immigration and spending and tax reform. After the breakfast Rogers said along with Maxwell, the Montgomery area has a lot to be proud of from its efforts on business diversification, to regional economic development projects, to building new infrastructure, to improving its educational system. -###-
05.28.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers visited Randolph County today holding a town hall-style public meeting with constituents at The Missing Link in Roanoke. During his visit, Rogers talked about the state of our economy, specifically in rural communities like Roanoke and answered questions from constituents ranging from defending our Second Amendment rights, to the IRS scandal, to Obamacare, to immigration, to spending and tax reform. Rogers says he regularly holds these town hall-style events to give folks across the Third District the opportunity to discuss issues important to them in a public setting. “I truly enjoy hosting these public meetings so I can hear first-hand what is on the minds of constituents across East Alabama. So many people are concerned with what’s going on in Washington these days, and these local discussions help me take those concerns back to Congress to continue fighting for East Alabama’s interests,” Rogers said. While in Randolph County, Rogers also visited the new health care facility in Wedowee, Tanner East Alabama Clinic, and toured Jeld-Wen in Roanoke. “Our rural economies are vitally important to our nation, and we must continue to find ways to help attract and create new good paying jobs,” he said. “I deeply appreciate the chance to visit these outstanding facilities.” -###-
05.23.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after Congressman Jo Bonner announced his retirement from Congress. "It has been a privilege to work with Jo as both a colleague and a close personal friend. I will miss him greatly." -###-
05.23.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement in honor of our service men and women as we will remember them on Memorial Day, May 27, 2013. “Memorial Day serves as a day of remembrance for the fallen brave men and women who have served our country in uniform. Their ultimate sacrifice helped guarantee the freedoms we enjoy today. “We should honor them every day for the sacrifices they have made, and continue to pray for our troops and their families. God Bless America and our brave military.” -###-
05.22.2013	With Memorial Day upon us, not only does it mark the kick-off of summer for most East Alabama families, it is also our nation’s day to remember all the men and women in uniform who bravely gave their lives for our freedoms. American flags decorate cemeteries and line the streets, and prayers are said to honor the fallen. Generation after generation, our brave men and women have answered the call to duty to help ensure all of our freedoms are protected. Each time an enemy threatens our freedoms or attacks innocent Americans, courageous men and women stand guard in harm’s way. Our freedoms have been defended around the globe. We cherish them and the blessings they bring. As we continue to remember all those who have sacrificed in our prayers, let’s not forget the cruel truth that “freedom isn’t free.” As we pray for those brave soldiers we’ve lost, we should also pray for those brave soldiers in uniform who are serving today and their families they have left behind. Just last week, our great state was happy to welcome home Alabama Army National Guard’s 1/167th Infantry Battalion after their tour in Afghanistan since June. Also last week, actor Gary Sinise, better known as ‘Lieutenant Dan’ in the movie ‘Forrest Gump,’ held a concert in honor of Marine Sergeant Ben Tomlinson of Jacksonville, who lost use of both of his legs while he was serving. Money raised would help build him a more accessible home. The sacrifice of our military and their families is immeasurable, but especially when the ultimate sacrifice is paid. Wreath-laying ceremonies will be held across our nation and across East Alabama as we honor those who served. I urge each of us to lift up in prayer those we’ve lost and their families while keeping those still serving in our thoughts and prayers as well. Brave Americans have given their lives for our liberty – the same liberty we use to guide what government can and cannot do. God Bless America and our Troops. I want to hear from you. Please contact me on this or any issue and sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03
05.21.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers, along with the rest of the Alabama House Delegation, sent a letter last week to Secretary of Defense Charles Hagel to highlight the outstanding work done at Anniston Army Depot (ANAD) for all ground combat, support vehicles and small caliber weapons. The letter states, “Maintaining and evolving our organic military industrial base is essential for our national security and economy….ANAD is the cornerstone of this vibrant industrial base.” Rogers said the letter is an important show of support for what he considers to be the Army’s premier military installation of its type. Alabama’s Congressional delegation is fighting for the Depot and all other Alabama military facilities, he said, both in public and behind the scenes. This is one of many efforts to help protect and strengthen ANAD, he said. “Having full bipartisan support from Alabama’s Congressional Delegation shows the level of importance of the Depot to our great state and the nation. I urge Secretary Hagel to come to Anniston so he can see what a premier facility it truly is. We are all fighting for the ‘Pit Crew of the American Warfighter’,” he said. Nathan Hill, military affairs liaison for the Calhoun County Chamber of Commerce observed, “The community is standing arm in arm with our Congressional delegation to fight for ANAD. This is another great show of force for Alabama and the Depot.” Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
05.20.2013	Agriculture is a $1 billion industry in Alabama that provides thousands of jobs to hard-working men and women across the state. Supporting the health of Alabama’s agriculture economy and family farms is the Farm Bill, a critical piece of legislation with far-reaching impacts across East Alabama. Rogers, a member of the Agriculture Committee, said today Congress should work quickly to get the Farm Bill passed given its importance to our economy. The Farm Bill authorizes key agriculture, research and nutrition programs. “Congress needs to help our agriculture-based economy grow, and one of the best ways to do that is to pass the Farm Bill. My colleagues and I on the House Agriculture Committee crafted a good bill that not only provides much-needed spending cuts and reforms, but also gives certainty to a vital American job-creator -- the Agriculture sector,” said Rogers. Rogers said the bill cuts spending in a fiscally responsible manner. This legislation includes the first substantive reforms since the 1996 Welfare Reform Act to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), more commonly known as Food Stamps. This program has doubled in size since 2008. The new Farm Bill should slow SNAP spending and begin critically needed reforms. The House of Representatives is expected to debate the legislation in June. Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is also a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
05.14.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers sent a letter today to Steven T. Miller, Acting Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) demanding the agency comply with any Congressional investigation and provide any relevant information. The letter was sent on the heels of recent reports the IRS has targeted groups opposed to President Obama’s policy agenda. The letter states, “Suppressing opposing views by holding tax-exempt groups hostage is a tactic worthy of a lesser nation. My constituents in East Alabama exercise their First Amendment right to free speech by supporting groups that share their views. They and all Americans deserve a full explanation of the actions taken by the IRS.” “I am outraged the IRS specifically targeted tea party groups based solely on their political affiliation. If proven, this is an attempt to suppress free speech and a blatant abuse of power. I will continue to demand for an investigation to determine who ordered it, what happened and how far up the chain it goes,” Rogers said. Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
05.09.2013	I was in Auburn recently for a town hall meeting, and we got to talking about how Washington affects their families. One of the most consistent concerns I heard was how President Obama’s health care law will impact their lives. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare, is starting to go into effect. As we are finding out, and as many predicted, this law is anything but affordable and is more of a problem than a solution to our health care needs. Since it was signed into law on March 23, 2010, the Administration has not been completely forthcoming with details about exactly how the new healthcare exchanges will be rolled out. Alabama, for one, has chosen not to create an insurance exchange. But there are a few things we do know. According to a recent study by the Kaiser Family Foundation, only 35 percent of Americans polled have a favorable opinion of the law so far. Even more troubling is 42 percent of Americans polled by Kaiser think Obamacare is not currently law. They think it was either struck down by the Supreme Court or repealed. For the record, I not only voted against the original bill, but also have voted to repeal it on multiple occasions. There has also been a lot of chatter about Congress trying to exempt themselves from Obamacare. Factcheck.org debunks this as untrue. There is also the impact the law could have on jobs. The Congressional Budget Office estimates Obamacare will become a $1 trillion dollar tax hike. These tax hikes could hurt small business owners across East Alabama as employers cut hours to avoid covering their employees’ health care. That could put a lot of entry level jobs that lead to more skilled work or provide much needed extra income to families at risk. In fact, according to a study by the Hudson Institute, over 54,000 jobs in Alabama related to the hospitality, restaurant and leisure industries are at risk because of the health care law. I will continue to fight against this poorly crafted, broken law. I want to hear from you. Please contact me on this or any issue and sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
05.07.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers sent a letter this week to Secretary of Defense Charles Hagel urging the Department of Defense to implement sections of the National Defense Authorization Act that protect the religious freedom of service members. This letter comes after recent reports the Department of Defense is considering policy changes that could make proselytizing an offense under the military justice system. The letter states, “I am writing you today to demand that the Pentagon implement the congressionally directed provisions under section 533 of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that provide religious conscience protections for everyone serving our nation in uniform. I am deeply concerned that the current civilian leadership of the Department of Defense might not be fully committed to religious freedom within the military.” “Our men and women in uniform have a long and proud history of defending our freedoms, but their freedoms cannot be sacrificed along the way,” Rogers said. “Our troops should have the right to worship and speak of their faith freely.” Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
05.02.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today in response to Reports of “Faith Based” Pentagon Court Martials. “As a Christian, I know the importance of my faith and strongly believe our brave men and women in uniform should have the right to worship and speak of their faith freely. This is a deeply troubling report, and I will monitor this situation closely during the upcoming defense bill debate." -#-#-#-
04.30.2013	(OPELIKA, AL) – Congressman Mike Rogers met today with his Third District Veterans Advisory Committee in Opelika, a volunteer panel of Veterans across the Third District which advises Rogers on issues important to Veterans and their families. During the meeting, Rogers and the advisory committee focused on issues like potential changes to TRICARE and the continuing effort to improve programs administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs. Last week, Rogers sent a letter to Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric K. Shinseki concerning the lack of information regarding the implementation of a new initiative aimed at expediting compensation claims decisions for all Veterans who’ve waited for a year or longer. The massive backlog of claims is one of the more frustrating issues facing veterans today. “These men and women represent a myriad of folks who have served our country both at home and abroad. They have given us their best, and in return, our nation must keep its promise to them,” Rogers said. “These backlogs must be cleared up as soon as possible.” Rogers thanked the Veterans for their ongoing willingness to serve on his committee. “I deeply appreciate the time these proud East Alabamians continue to take to help advise me on these critically important issues.” The Veterans Advisory Committee meets several times each year across East Alabama. It is comprised of Veterans from every county across the Third District. Rogers serves as Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee and is a senior member of the House Agriculture and House Armed Services Committees. -### -
04.30.2013	(AUBURN, AL)—Congressman Mike Rogers held a “Congress on Your Corner” public meeting in Auburn today, fielding questions from constituents ranging from the Second Amendment, to the Boston bombings, to immigration, to spending and tax reform. Rogers says he regularly hosts these town hall-style events to give constituents the opportunity to discuss issues important to them in a public setting. “I truly enjoy hosting these events so I can hear first-hand what is on the minds of folks across East Alabama. So many people are concerned with what’s going on in Washington these days, and these public meetings help me take those concerns back to Congress to continue fighting for East Alabama’s interests,” Rogers said. Earlier in the day, Rogers met in Opelika with his Third District Veterans Advisory Committee. The meeting was held at Southern Union Community College. -###-
04.26.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks remembering the second anniversary of the deadly tornadoes that struck across Alabama on April 27, 2011. “The pain of losing loved ones on this tragic day will always remain with us. For the past two years, Alabamians have proved they are resilient. We will always remember the victims of the storms and keep their families in our prayers as we continue to rebuild our communities and our great state,” Rogers said. -###-
04.25.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers sent a letter today to Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric K. Shinseki to receive additional information on the recent announcement of an initiative by Veterans Affairs to expedite compensation claims decisions for all Veterans who’ve waited for a year or longer. According to reports the backlog for claims is approximately 900,000. The letter states, ‘While I applaud the VA’s efforts to reduce decision times, I am concerned with the lack of information regarding the implementation of this new initiative. All Veterans deserve to have their claims decided in a timely fashion. I respectfully request that you closely monitor this new initiative to ensure that resources are not shifted away from other Veterans priorities and that the average processing time for new claims does not get longer.’ “Our Veterans have bravely served our country and they deserve the best we can give them. I plan to closely monitor this initiative as it moves forward,” Rogers said. Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
04.25.2013	When I’m back at home at the grocery store folks often tell me they just don’t understand what Washington is up to. A recent example of this has been the debate over gun control in the U.S. Senate, as President Obama worked to pass new gun control laws. Each amendment to increase the number of gun laws was defeated. The center piece was a proposal to expand background checks. The authors, Senators Joe Manchin (D-WV) and Pat Toomey (R-PA), claimed it would help prevent criminals from purchasing guns. I disagree. If this proposal were law it would have outlawed private sales of guns and would have required approval from the Federal government to transfer guns even between some family members. According to the Gallup organization, 43 percent of American adults self-reported having a gun in their household. Fifty-four percent of Southerners self-reported having guns in their household according to a Gallup poll from 2011, the highest for any region in the country. Interest in buying guns seems to be at an all time high. According to the FBI, in 2012, over 19.5 million Federal background checks necessary for gun sales were conducted. Though this doesn’t mean that a gun was actually purchased, it does represent a 19 percent increase over 2011. Further anecdotal evidence of these figures is that gun rights is the top issue folks from East Alabama have contacted me about recently. My view is instead of pushing for more gun control measures, current laws should be enforced. Earlier this month, I called on Attorney General Eric Holder to enforce current guns laws. Prosecution of those violating Federal gun laws is at the lowest level in over a decade. In fact, in 2010, of the over 76,000 background check denials, only 62 have resulted in prosecutions. Honest people can disagree and statistics can be manipulated, but the Second Amendment of the Constitution guarantees our right to keep and bear arms. It should be defended and protected – just like all of our deeply revered rights – like the freedom to worship and the freedom of speech. Sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
04.17.2013	Alabama Congressman Mike Rogers has been named Chairman of the Republican Policy Committee’s National Security Subcommittee for the 113th Congress. The Republican Policy Committee, chaired by Representative James Lankford of Oklahoma is a place for House Republicans to generate valuable legislative proposals. “I am honored to be chosen to head up this important policy panel. As a member of both the Armed Services and Homeland Security Committees, I look forward to helping facilitate important policy discussions relating to National Security legislation. “During these uncertain times on issues relating to our military, now more than ever I believe Congress needs proactive and decisive leadership to help advocate for our long term defense capabilities,” Rogers said. “The Policy Committee is honored to welcome Rep. Rogers as Subcommittee Chair for National Security and International Relationships. As Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, Rep. Rogers brings to the policy table a wealth of knowledge about our national security and military communities that will facilitate a solution-based discussion for our membership on behalf of the people of Alabama’s Third District,” Lankford said. Rogers is Chairman of the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces on the House Armed Services Committee. He is also a senior member of the Homeland Security Committee and a member of the Agriculture Committee. -###-
04.11.2013	Recently I voted for a budget plan that would help rein in government spending, balance the budget in 10 years and reform the tax code. It’s not a perfect plan, but that budget, crafted by Congressman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, at least attempts to solve our long-term debt crisis. Across the Capitol, the Senate Democratic budget plan, endorsed by President Obama, recommends no balanced budget and includes a $975 billion tax increase. I completely disagree with this approach. Most folks across East Alabama agree our massive national debt and burdensome tax code are hurting the economy and stifling new job growth. Congress must act to address both. The national debate has been centered on cutting spending. The House Republican budget plan would cut spending by $4.6 trillion over the next decade while preserving and protecting important programs like Medicare. As we continue to work to cut spending, we should also begin to reform the tax code. These simply go hand in hand. April 15th - the dreaded Tax Day – is here and what better timing to begin to debate tax reform. According to the non-partisan Tax Foundation, Americans will have to work 108 days this year just to be able to pay their taxes. That’s outrageous. Tax reform should be based on permanently reducing rates on individuals and businesses to the lowest possible level, eliminating special interest loopholes that have nothing to do with creating jobs and requiring everyone to pay their fair share. If Congress aims for these goals, the results should be stronger economic growth and job creation. Contrary to the naysayers, the amount of revenue the government receives actually would increase because more people would be working and our economy would be growing. We cannot allow any future growth-generated revenue to be spent on wasteful government programs. Instead, it should go towards eliminating the deficit and then paying down the debt. Congress has the opportunity to right our fiscal ship and help grow our economy for future generations. Let’s hope it tackles our long-term debt crisis and works to fix our broken tax code. Feel free to contact me on this or any issue and sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mike-rogers.house.gov. You can also become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
04.10.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today after President Obama’s Budget was delivered to Congress. “I am very disappointed in initial reviews of the president’s budget, which was released today over two months late. East Alabamians know Washington has a spending problem, not a revenue problem. The House passed a plan to help balance the budget in ten years, cut spending, reform the tax code and preserve and protect important entitlement programs like Medicare. I urge President Obama to continue working with House and Senate leaders to forge a compromise that truly helps get our country’s fiscal house back in order.” -###-
03.21.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today after voting for H.R. 933, the Department of Defense, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act, 2013. It is expected to be signed into law by President Obama. “Washington has a spending problem that must be addressed now, not later. This bill is a step in the right direction that reduces overall spending at sequestration levels while providing vital funding to our military and veterans. It’s also a step toward reducing our nation’s deficit, and finally working toward balancing the budget. “It is my hope the Obama Administration will use the flexibility provided in this bill to help the Department of Defense make common sense budgetary decisions to help maintain our military readiness while dealing with the indiscriminate cuts from sequestration,” Rogers said. -###-
03.21.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks after voting in support of House Concurrent Resolution 25, the Fiscal Year 2014 Budget Resolution which passed the House of Representatives today. “Washington’s spending problem poses a long-term threat to our economy and job growth, which is why the Federal government must balance its budget. Our national debt is over $16.7 trillion and continues to grow. Each year we don’t have a balanced budget means more debt for our children and grandchildren, and Congress owes it to hard-working American families to balance the budget just like they are forced to do. “I am proud to say today the House took a responsible step in that direction by passing a budget plan that would lead to a balanced budget in ten years. This responsible blueprint should help tackle Washington’s excessive spending, preserve and protect important trusts like Medicare for current and future generations and fix our broken tax code. “As Armed Services Committee Chairman McKeon pointed out, this budget would also help shield our troops from further damage under sequestration. “We didn’t get into this mess overnight. It took decades to accumulate our massive debt and there are no easy fixes. Tough decisions will be required that may not be perfect to everyone, but I commend Chairman Paul Ryan and the House Budget Committee for charting a clear and responsible course for our nation.” -###-
03.19.2013	Foreign military sales could account for an increasing amount of work for the Anniston Army Depot, and over time, this additional workload could help the installation grow its mission over time. Those facts and others are behind the ongoing drive by Congressman Mike Rogers and others in the Alabama delegation to fight for the Depot’s workforce. As the wars wind down, Rogers says, it is critical the Army keeps its military industrial base in a state of strong readiness. Securing contracts with foreign allies to purchase surplus U.S. military equipment is a key initiative by the Army’s top leadership, and one that Rogers strongly supports. “The Anniston Army Depot plays a critical role in our nation’s military readiness, and its workforce is second to none,” Rogers said. “As recent actions by rogue states like North Korea and Iran have shown, we must never become complacent in our efforts to stay prepared. That means keeping critical facilities like the Anniston Army Depot strong and vibrant.” In a letter today to Major General Frank Turner, the Army’s top commander overseeing the Foreign Military Sales (FMS) program, Rogers encouraged the Army to consider ANAD for all its many capabilities. ‘ANAD is fully capable of performing work across a broad spectrum of military equipment from major tracked vehicles to small arms. As you pursue future FMS cases with our international partners, respectfully I encourage you to present to all interested parties the entire range of capabilities that ANAD could perform,’ Rogers wrote.
03.15.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers (R-AL), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, made the following statement with regard to the Obama Administration’s decision to deploy more interceptors for the national missile defense system. “The Obama Administration’s decision to deploy more interceptors for the national missile defense system is welcome news after four years of devastating missile defense cuts by this Administration. Now in the face of growing nuclear and missile threats from unstable regimes in North Korea and Iran, President Obama’s reverse course decision will cost the American taxpayer more money and upset our allies. Four years ago, the Obama Administration began to unilaterally disarm our defenses and deterrent in the hope our enemies would follow suit. But hope is not a defense strategy. President Obama is finally realizing what President Reagan taught us 30 years ago – the best way to keep the peace is through strength.”
03.13.2013	Many folks across East Alabama have contacted me with their concerns about sequestration and its potentially far-reaching effects. The president’s sequestration plan was originally put into place to be a last resort with such crippling budget cuts across the board, that Congress and the president would be forced to reach an agreement to replace them. As you know, that didn’t happen. No agreement was reached, and as of March 1st, the sequester began. It is still too early to know all of sequestration’s consequences. But one big part of our nation already feeling the pain of the sequester is our military, its supporting workforce, and our overall defense industrial base. Last week I voted for a bill, known as the Continuing Resolution, to help provide more flexibility for the Pentagon while keeping overall spending at the lower sequester level. I am hopeful the Senate will act on this bill soon. The sequester debate is driven by excessive Federal spending. Right now, our nation owes over $16.6 trillion. Washington cannot spend at this rate forever, but it also must not harm our national security as spending gets cut. Having the massive Federal bureaucracy, which is far too large in the first place, implement the sequester cuts is a challenging task. But in some cases I am concerned the Obama Administration using it to drive a political agenda. Some of you may have heard that Immigrations and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Director John Morton approved the release of thousands of illegal immigrants from detention centers across the country in anticipation of the sequester cuts. This disregard for our nation’s safety and security baffles me. These immigrants have already broken the law by entering our country illegally, and they should not be on our streets. This is the latest in a series of poor decisions by Director Morton and I have called on him to resign. We face tough times ahead as a nation, but we must face these problems head on. President Obama and Congress must continue to work together to find long-term spending reforms that don’t jeopardize our safety or defense. I want to hear from you. Feel free to contact me on this or any issue and sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mike-rogers.house.gov. You can also become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
03.12.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers plans to discuss finding ways to help maintain a steady workload at the Anniston Army Depot when he meets later today with General Martin Dempsey, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the nation’s highest ranking military officer. Rogers said prior to the meeting, “As the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan come to an end, our military must develop new national defense strategies to meet future threats. Especially in this challenging budget environment, I firmly believe we must maintain a strong military industrial base that is critical to our military readiness and economy, starting with the Anniston Army Depot.” In previous weeks, Rogers has discussed the Depot with General Raymond Odierno, the Army Chief of Staff; General Dennis Via, Commanding General, Army Materiel Command; and Major General Michael Terry, Commanding General, U.S. Army TACOM. Late last month, Rogers wrote the Army requesting information on pending Foreign Military Sales (FMS). Some work from FMS cases can be performed at the Depot and could help stabilize the facility’s workload over a number of years, a point Rogers plans to emphasize with Dempsey. Rogers says he plans to continue to work with the community to identify opportunities to bring additional workload to the Depot. “The entire Depot workforce has performed a tremendous service to the warfighter and our nation throughout the war effort. Our community has been fighting tirelessly to protect and strengthen the Depot and all of its workers, and will continue to do so,” Rogers added. Rogers is the Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces. -###-
03.06.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today after H.R. 933, the Department of Defense, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act, 2013, passed the House of Representatives. The bill would fund the Federal government through the end of fiscal year 2013. “Our nation is facing a crippling debt crisis. Long term spending by Washington must be brought under control and we must adopt reforms that move us toward a balanced budget. This bill is a step in that direction that reduces overall spending to sequestration levels while funding priorities for our military and veterans. “Should it become law, this bill could offer a little breathing room to the Department of Defense by offering certainty to their budget that was indiscriminately slashed by President Obama’s sequestration plan,” Rogers said. Currently, the Federal government runs out of funding on March 27th and this bill funds the government through the end of September, keeping the sequester in place. Rogers said it could provide the Pentagon some flexibility in their spending. “I urge Senator Reid and Senate Democrats to debate this bill immediately,” he concluded. -###-
03.05.2013	Calling the recent release of thousands of illegal immigrants from detention an affront to law-abiding American citizens, Congressman Mike Rogers called on the Director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), John Morton, to resign his position. Rogers’ reaction, contained in a letter mailed this week, followed the release of thousands of illegal immigrants from detention facilities across the country ahead of sequester budget cuts last week. In his letter to Director Morton, Rogers states, ‘….Rather than reducing administrative staffing, cutting overhead, or taking other action to balance statutory detention requirements against budget mandates, ICE chose to release criminals directly onto the streets of our communities. ‘The Department's justification for this action is that these individuals will remain in a monitoring program while deportation proceedings are on-going. It baffles me that you and the Administration believe that someone who has already committed at least one crime by entering this country illegally would actually participate in a monitored release program for their own deportation.’ Rogers said today, “Morton’s latest move was the last straw for me. It is baffling he would put potentially dangerous illegal immigrants back on the streets in communities across the country. Americans deserve better than that and I think it is time he finds other employment.” Rogers serves as Chairman of the Strategic Forces subcommittee on the Armed Services Committee and is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Agriculture committees. -###-
03.01.2013	With House and Senate leadership’s meeting today with President Obama resulting in no new action on the sequester, Congressman Mike Rogers urged the leaders to continue their negotiations to hold the line on spending and agree on reforms that will help keep our nation’s defense strong. “Excessive spending over the long term has resulted in trillion-dollar deficits and $16.6 trillion in debt. This is the root cause of our budget crisis. Today is the first day of President Obama’s sequestration cuts and the local impact across East Alabama will begin to be felt in many ways, like at our vital military facilities. “As the Army struggles to implement these cuts, we should apply smarter spending reforms to President Obama’s sequester. These reforms should reflect our priorities and our changing national security strategy after fighting wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, while ensuring we do not harm our military’s readiness,” Rogers said. In East Alabama, Rogers has been working to fight for the interests of all of East Alabama’s military facilities in preparation for sequestration. For example, this week, Rogers met with General Dennis L. Via, the commanding general for the Army Materiel Command (AMC), which overees the the Anniston Army Depot to advocate for additional workload in Anniston. Rogers also has been pressing the Army to provide more information on additional workload that could result from Foreign Military Sales (FMS). Rogers is Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces. - # # # -
02.28.2013	Most folks across East Alabama have seen on the news lately the non-stop coverage of Washington’s latest budget crisis: sequestration. Just like the last budget crisis roughly 60 days ago, Washington seems no closer to fixing the problem. That problem, I believe, is too much spending. According to a popular website, usdebtclock.org, the national debt is $16.6 trillion, or about $146,000 of debt per taxpayer. Currently, the U.S. takes in about $2.49 trillion in Federal tax revenue, but spends about $3.54 trillion. This results in huge budget deficits. And we have carried a trillion dollar deficit every year over the last three years. President Obama proposed the sequester and it has been widely criticized. But this most recent debate over the sequester, as painful as it is to many folks back home, hides Washington’s real spending problem. I believe long-term solutions to our debt crisis starts with a budget – a real budget that holds Washington accountable. Hard working families across East Alabama and the country know what it’s like to live on a tight budget. This spring, the House will pass its third budget in three years. These budgets require some tough decisions and everyone would feel some effects. Meanwhile, the Senate has not passed a budget in almost four years. That is no way to do the people’s business. March 1st begins President Obama’s sequester when $85 billion in indiscriminate cuts will be put in place across the Federal government. These cuts will be harmful to our military and other programs and could damage our national security. It needs a common sense reform to ensure we aren’t hurting our warfighters or their readiness. However, in the big picture, the $85 billion expected to be cut this year, is roughly the same amount that the U.S. borrows to run the government every twenty eight days. Spending cuts must be made to get our country back on the right financial track, but these reforms should be thoughtful and responsible. It is time for Congress and the President to sit down to find real solutions. I want to hear from you. Feel free to contact me on this or any issue and sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mike-rogers.house.gov. You can also become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03
02.27.2013	Two days before sequestration is scheduled to take effect, Congressman Mike Rogers met with General Dennis L. Via, the commanding general of the U.S. Army Materiel Command, to continue fighting for Anniston Army Depot (ANAD) workers and a smarter, more reasonable way to help reduce excessive Federal spending that does not threaten our national security. Rogers met with Gen. Via, who oversees Army logistics, materiel readiness and all depots, this morning at a House Depot Caucus meeting. Other military and civilian leaders of the Department of Defense also attended the event, where Rogers and Via discussed the impact of sequestration on military readiness and the important mission of the Anniston Army Depot. “As our nation continues to evolve its national security strategy, the Anniston Army Depot will continue to play a vital role in our nation’s overall military readiness. President Obama’s sequester is a threat to our national security and the thousands of patriotic jobs that support our warfighters. We must cut spending but there has to be a better, more reasonable approach,” Rogers said. Late last week, Rogers sent a letter to Major General Frank D. Turner III, commander of the U.S. Army Security Assistance Command, to request information from the Army on any workload from additional or potential foreign military sales (FMS) that could go to the Anniston Army Depot since previous FMS workload has supported jobs there. “The entire community is working hard to ensure we leave no stone unturned when it comes to strengthening and securing the Depot, and all other Third District military facilities,” he said. The letter is part of a series of ongoing efforts by Rogers to fight for work at ANAD especially with the uncertainty surrounding President Obama’s sequestration. Rogers serves a Chairman of the House Armed Services Strategic Forces subcommittee.
02.14.2013	On Tuesday evening, President Obama delivered his State of the Union address to the nation. In it he shared with Americans his view of the current state of our country and his vision for the direction we should be headed. On the whole, I was disappointed to hear many of the president’s proposals, which I believe come down to raising additional taxes, increasing spending, and continuing to rely on the Federal government as the driver of our nation’s economic growth – rather than the private sector. If we asked folks across East Alabama what was on their minds Tuesday night, I think they might say some of the following. First, our nation needs a balanced budget to help deal with our debt. After all, Washington is still spending far beyond its means. I’m proud to say time and time again, House Republicans have passed legislation to reduce our debt and bring our budget into balance over the long term. Unfortunately, the Senate has not passed a budget in close to four years. Folks would agree we need jobs. The tough reality is that, unemployment has been persistently high. Between 2009 and 2013, almost 8.5 million Americans have lost their jobs. Our economy has been stagnant and slow to grow. The private sector must be set free to lead our economic recovery. Washington can help do that by getting rid of unnecessary bureaucratic red tape and reducing regulations that hurt job creation. Folks would also talk about gas prices. They’re still too high and too volatile. That’s why we need to use more of America’s energy resources, a trend I’m delighted to say our nation is now doing mostly because of private sector innovation. One of the keys will be to ensure Congress passes laws that help increase the safe exploration of American energy sources. Finally, East Alabamians would say – loudly – don’t restrict our 2nd amendment rights. Further gun control measures just aren’t the answer. We live in the greatest country in the world. Our economy may be struggling but our union is strong. At this important time, I hope Congress will make the tough decisions and help create a brighter future for our children and grandchildren. I want to hear from you. Feel free to contact me on this or any issue and sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mike-rogers.house.gov. You can also become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
02.14.2013	In a letter to the president today, Congressman Mike Rogers called on President Obama to support a plan that reduces federal spending without making harmful cuts to our military or threatening our national security. The letter reads, in part, ‘As most Americans know, the House of Representatives has twice passed legislation to replace the sequester with responsible spending reforms…to date, your Administration has not submitted what I consider to be a serious, long-term plan to replace the sequester with more targeted, reasonable spending reductions. The letter concludes, ‘Mr. President, the sequester was your idea. Now that it is about to occur, it is your responsibility to work with the leadership of the House and Senate to find a smarter, long-term way to reduce federal spending and cut our debt. Our warfighters, their families, and those who have dedicated their careers to supporting them deserve nothing less than the very best leadership from you to help resolve this responsibly.’ Rogers said today House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers (R-KY) is developing a proposal that would help blunt the sequester’s worst effects on the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs. Rogers said, “I am deeply disappointed President Obama has not put forth a serious, long-term proposal to solve the sequester,” said Rogers. “The uncertainty created by his sequester is causing concern at critical facilities like the Anniston Army Depot, Maxwell Air Force Base and Gunter Annex, and Fort Benning. This is not the right way for the President or the Congress to manage its affairs, and it is not the right way to provide for our warfighters and our dedicated civilian workers,” he said. “President Obama must lead.” - # # # -
02.13.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Wedowee Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving a $50,460 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Randolph County fire department purchase new operations and safety equipment. “Randolph County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Wedowee Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.” Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2012 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation. According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards. Rogers serves on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
02.12.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today in response to the nuclear detonation in North Korea. "North Korea continues to provoke the world, and its supporters in Beijing and Tehran appear unconcerned with potential reactions from the United States. "More alarming is how little influence these threats have on the President and his policies. President Obama has been the world leader on reduction of nuclear weapons, but he's only succeeded in reducing the deterrent that protects the American people and its allies. Instead of changing course, it appears the President is poised to double down on this failed policy tonight. "If the President won't lead, and if he won't change course to avoid his sequestration of America's defenses, Congress must act without him."
01.23.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today in response to the passage of H.R. 325, the No Budget, No Pay Act of 2013. “The people of East Alabama know what it is like to live on a budget and so should Congress. Our nation’s deeply troubling debt and spending crisis is too serious to pass it to our children and grandchildren. The very least Congress can do is pass a budget. If on April 15th the Senate has not come up with a budget, as they have refused to do for four years, then they won’t be paid until they pass one. “House Republicans are leading by putting forward common sense solutions to help cut out of control spending and responsibly manage America’s finances.” ###-
01.17.2013	Congress faces three massive spending challenges in the coming months: the debt ceiling, the Sequester and funding to keep the government open. The question now is whether President Obama and the Congress will tackle our spending problem as these three critical events approach. They’re all on the heels of the fiscal cliff deal that both raised taxes and increased spending. I voted against that bill because it denied the core problem: Washington has a spending problem, not a revenue problem. As most of us across East Alabama know, the Treasury Department recently announced it will likely reach the debt ceiling around the end of February or early March. After that point, the Treasury will then be unable to pay our nation’s bills without an increase to the debt ceiling. The cause: constant spending. Should the U.S. default, many argue our credit rating could be downgraded, the economy could suffer a devastating blow and we could be plunged into a long term recession. As Washington’s battle over the debt ceiling heats up, on March 1, the indiscriminate Sequestration cuts, delayed by the fiscal cliff deal, will go into effect. Sequestration is scheduled to cut 9.4 percent from the Defense budget and 8.2 percent from domestic programs. Sequestration was originally conceived to be so devastating that Washington would be forced to come together and replace it with a reasonable long-term plan to reduce spending. That didn’t happen. On top of all of these issues, the law that funds the government expires on March 27. That means we are facing the real possibility of a government shutdown if Congress can’t agree on a budget. Again, spending is the problem. Out of control spending drives our growing debt that forces showdowns over raising the debt ceiling. It fuels desires by some to raise taxes. It forces us as a nation to unnecessarily choose between priorities. An old saying goes, “before you can fix a problem, you first have to recognize you have one.” Will President Obama and the Congress work to solve our spending problem? I hope so. It is going to require tough choices. I want to hear from you. Feel free to contact me on this or any issue and sign up for my e-Newsletter at www.mike-rogers.house.gov. You can also become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
01.16.2013	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks in response to President Obama’s announcement of the White House’s efforts to pursue new gun control policies. “I will continue to strongly support the Second Amendment. In that regard, I oppose any effort to reinstate an assault weapons ban, add restrictions on accessories, restrict ammunition purchases or construct further limitations on the Second Amendment rights of law abiding citizens. Additionally, I strongly oppose any Executive Order issued by the President designed to circumvent the legislative process and limit gun rights.” President Obama created a taskforce led by Vice President Biden to develop recommendations for new gun control measures. -###-
01.04.2013	Alabama Congressman Mike Rogers has been appointed to the House Committee on Agriculture for the 113th Congress. Rogers has served on the committee in previous Congresses, and will return as a senior member of the committee in January. The Agriculture Committee has jurisdiction over a wide range of issues that are vital to Alabama’s economy. Rogers, who was recently re-elected to serve East Alabama’s Third Congressional District, said he is excited to again be a part of the committee which has a significant impact on Alabama’s economy. “I am honored to be selected by my colleagues to again serve on the Agriculture Committee. Especially in these challenging times, I look forward to continue advocating strongly for the Third District’s many agriculture interests,” Rogers said. Since his first term, Rogers has maintained his Third District Agriculture Advisory Committee. Rogers said the group, which includes farmers from every county of his district, has been a vital resource for him while in Congress. “I am pleased to welcome back Congressman Rogers as a member of the House Committee on Agriculture. He is a proven leader with extensive knowledge of agriculture issues,” said House Committee on Agriculture Chairman Frank Lucas (R-OK). “I know he will serve both his East Alabama district and our nation well on the committee.” Rogers is Chairman of the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces on the House Armed Services Committee. He is also a senior member of the Homeland Security Committee. -###-
01.02.2013	“I am disappointed this agreement does not significantly help reduce Federal spending and therefore I could not support it. I firmly believe our growing fiscal crisis is rooted in Washington’s spending problem, and I hope that will be the focus of debate in the coming weeks.”
12.17.2012	The Chairman of the Congressional panel that has jurisdiction over the Department of Defense today named Alabama Congressman Mike Rogers as the next Chairman of the panel’s Strategic Forces subcommittee. As Chairman, Rogers will oversee our nation’s strategic weapons, ballistic missile defense, space programs, and most of the Department of Energy national security programs. Alabama is home to much of the research and development that many of these programs rely upon, pumping millions into Alabama’s economy every year. Rogers’ East Alabama Congressional district is home to several key defense installations, such as the Anniston Army Depot, all of which will now have an even stronger voice to help advocate for their interests. “I am deeply honored that Chairman McKeon chose me to lead this important Subcommittee,” Rogers said. “The Third District is home to critical military installations like the Anniston Army Depot and Fort Benning, and Maxwell Air Force Base is right in the Montgomery area. This is an incredibly important role, and I hope to use this chairmanship to further ensure these vital facilities are strengthened and protected in the years to come, while advocating for common sense defense policies that provide for our warfighters and help protect our nation,” Rogers said. “I asked Congressman Rogers to serve as the Chairman of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee because he is a proven leader, a subject matter expert, and one of the hardest working Members I know,” said House Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon (R-CA). “He will serve our nation and his district well in this leadership role.” Considered one of the most important assignments on the House Armed Services Committee, Rogers will be at the forefront of policymaking as our nation seeks to upgrade our strategic arsenal and face down growing threats from countries like China, North Korea and Iran, all within a tighter fiscal environment. Rogers said he will maintain his seat on the Readiness Subcommittee, which also impacts installations like the Anniston Army Depot that ensure our military’s preparedness. He is a senior member of the Homeland Security Committee. -###-
12.17.2012	"All of us are devastated by the horrible, unthinkable loss of innocent lives in Newtown, CT. Let us all offer our thoughts and prayers for the victims and their families involved in this horrifying and senseless tragedy."
12.06.2012	As we quickly enter the Christmas season, folks across East Alabama are in the spirit of giving. In these tough economic times, people continue to give back to their communities as they help their brothers and sisters in need. But it’s not just at Christmastime, it’s all year round. Every year around the holidays, I like to highlight a few of the great works going on across our area. Following are just a few examples of people giving of their time and gifts this year. In Sylacauga, a new church called Christpoint Community Church reaches out to those in need in the community. Every Thursday, the church opens its doors and offers a free home-cooked meal for anyone who needs it. In Lee County last fall, members of the Better Opportunities for Single Soldiers program at Fort Benning volunteered their time to help clean up the overgrown Memory Hill cemetery with the Lee County Cemetery Preservation Commission. In Opelika, Storybook Farm, Inc, which was started in 2002 by Dena Little, continues its work as a non-profit faith-based organization that provides horses and activities for children who are experiencing physical, mental, social and emotional challenges. Also in Macon and Montgomery counties, Divine Inspirational Ministries and RESTORE Ministries both do their part to provide housing, help with job placement and financial assistance and provide counseling for their homeless constituents. In Alexander City, citizens are supporting a play entitled, “The Forgotten Christmas Carols.” All of the proceeds from this play are benefitting Children’s Harbor in Dadeville. At Wadley Baptist Church in Randolph County, members have assembled over 70 pairs of shoes to benefit forgotten children in need all over the world. And in Auburn, members of Moore’s Mill Fitness Club have been collecting “Toys for Tots” to benefit the United States Marine Foundation. As anyone can see from this sampling, folks across our state are always willing to help their neighbor all year long. May they be shining examples for us all. Merry Christmas to you and your families! Please feel free to contact me at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03
09.20.2012	Across East Alabama, I keep hearing from folks who are very concerned about the direction of our country. I am deeply concerned too. On the economic front, the trends still aren’t good. According to the Alabama Department of Industrial Relations, unemployment in the state of Alabama is up to 8.3 percent. The national unemployment rate has been at 8 percent or higher for 43 months. Too many folks have just given up looking for work altogether. That’s a terrible situation for anyone to be in, and high unemployment is just not something that we as a nation can or should accept. Many economists say we must increase government spending to pull our economy out of its slump. I disagree. Recently, you may have seen on the news that our national debt hit $16 trillion. This unbelievably high price tag breaks down to cost more than $140,000 per American tax payer. Over $140,000. Interest rates may be low now, but when they do go up, the cost of servicing our debt will severely limit our economic growth and our government’s ability to fund its basic functions. And on top of that, in January of next year, if Congress doesn’t act soon, the current tax rates will increase for every working family, making it even tougher on East Alabama families that are already hurting and struggling. You might think a budget from Congress would help. But many folks know it has been over three years since Senate Democrats have passed a budget. During these tough economic times, folks across East Alabama have been forced to tighten their financial belts and there is no reason Washington should not follow suit. It is time for a grown-up conversation in Washington. It is time for the tough choices to be made to get our economy back on track. I supported H. Con. Res. 112, the House-passed Budget, which would not only place our spending on a more sustainable path, and help strengthen Medicare for current and future generations, but also save our military from arbitrary and dangerous cuts known as sequestration. But like 30 other job-creation bills passed by the House, H. Con. Res. 112 was placed on the shelf by Senator Reid. Now is the time for reasoned action – on spending, on jobs and on common sense measures to get our economy moving and our budget under control. As always, contact me by visiting my website at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
09.19.2012	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Fort Mitchell Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving an $18,240 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Russell County fire department purchase new operations and safety equipment. “Russell County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Fort Mitchell Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.” Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2012 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation. According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards. Rogers is Chairman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
09.17.2012	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks on the 225th anniversary of the adoption of the US Constitution. “Today I join my fellow Americans in celebrating the signing of our Constitution. This history-making document represents everything we as Americans stand for. “225 years ago today, our Founding Fathers joined together and signed our Constitution, which is a promise to American citizens to uphold and respect our American liberties. “I join with all Americans today in celebrating this important occasion, and hope we will all continue to say our blessings for being citizens of the greatest country in the world,” Rogers said. -###-
09.12.2012	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks after the attacks in Libya resulting in the death of the U.S. Ambassador to Libya and three other Americans. “I am outraged at this barbaric and senseless act of violence. The attack on the American Ambassador and diplomatic staff is an attack on all freedom loving people. I call on the government of Libya to immediately assist the United States in bringing these murderers to swift justice. Occurring on the eleventh anniversary of the September 11th attacks, this tragic news is another reminder of the dangerous world we live in.” “My prayers and thoughts go out to the victims and their families as we grieve their loss,” Rogers said. -###-
09.10.2012	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks on the 11th anniversary of the deadly terrorist attacks across our country on September 11, 2001. “Every single American was affected by those heinous acts of terror on American soil. So many lives were lost, and families were torn apart. Our country wept on that early autumn day and we all continue to remember the families of those who lost their lives.” On Tuesday, Rogers will chair a Transportation Security subcommittee hearing entitled “Eleven Years After 9/11: Can TSA Evolve To Meet the Next Terrorist Threat?” The subcommittee on the Homeland Security Committee has oversight of the Transportation Security Administration which works to secure our nation’s transportation system. “As we again face this grave occasion I hope tomorrow’s hearing will help TSA become a smarter and leaner agency, but more importantly, also hope everyone across East Alabama will continue to keep the victims and their families in our prayers as our nation still heals from that tragic day,” Rogers added. -###-
07.20.2012	The number of new jobs being created in this country seem as stagnant as the July summer heat, and it looks like there’s not much relief in sight. For 41 straight months now, the national unemployment rate has stayed at or above 8 percent. The unemployment rate for Alabama sits at 7.4 percent for May which is a tick up from April’s 7.2 percent. These numbers continue to show us that our economy is still struggling and has made little if any improvement. Let’s dig deeper though. According to a July 6th CNN report, out of America’s unemployed population, 41.9 percent of our fellow citizens have been unemployed for six months or more. That means these folks haven’t worked a day since January of 2012 or before. The Weekly Standard on July 6th reported the unemployment rate for Hispanic Americans is stuck at 11 percent and Business Insider on the same day said the unemployment rate for African Americans sits at over 14 percent. It’s all unacceptable. Of particular concern to me is the number of people looking for work for six months or more. People who have been out of work longer find it even harder to find a job, and many times just give up. This is one of the real tragedies of this economy. Up in Washington, there’s a lot of talk about taxes and how they impact our economy. For example, the Supreme Court upheld Obamacare, which if not repealed will increase taxes for many Americans. Just last week, as you may have seen, the House voted once again to repeal Obamacare, but that legislation will just suffer the same fate as more than 30 jobs bills passed in the House of Representatives and sent to the U.S. Senate to die. There is also debate about extending all the current tax rates, which I support. Allowing taxes for everyone to go up at the end of the year, as President Obama and many Congressional Democrats are proposing, is not in any working family’s interests. Adding this tax hike will further damage our weak economy and make good paying jobs even harder to come by. All Alabamians have been hurt by this terrible economy, some far more than others. I hope Congress will get serious about helping create and keep good jobs for folks across East Alabama and the nation and set aside politics to get things done. As always, please contact me on this or any issue by visiting my website at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
07.09.2012	Congressman Mike Rogers (AL-03), Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security, said he will ask an outside panel of experts for innovative ways to help secure our nation’s transportation infrastructure and what TSA can be doing better. “We know TSA has an image problem that is compounded by its multiple high profile mess ups. The American people are rightly outraged at its intrusive bloated bureaucracy. TSA must become a leaner and smarter organization – from downsizing employees to continuing implementation of risk-based security. “I plan to use this hearing to get additional outside analysis and expertise about how to better protect aviation and surface systems, streamline the security process and reform TSA to become the intelligence-driven, professional entity its mission requires that will earn the trust of the traveling public,” Rogers said. On July 10th at 12:30 p.m. in 311 Cannon HOB, Rogers will hold a hearing, entitled “Challenging the Status Quo at TSA: Perspectives on the Future of Transportation Security.” The subcommittee will hear testimony from Dr. Richard Bloom, Associate Vice President for Academics and Director for Terrorism, Espionage and Security Studies, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, Mr. Robert Poole, Searle Freedom Trust Transportation Fellow and Director of Transportation Policy, Reason Foundation, Mr. Rick “Ozzie” Nelson, Senior Fellow and Director, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Program, Center for Strategic and International Studies and Mr. Tom Blank, Executive Vice President, Gephardt Government Affairs, Gephardt Group. Rogers has been a member of the House Homeland Security Committee since 2005. He is also a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. ###
06.28.2012	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today after the Supreme Court released its decision on the healthcare law. “I am deeply disappointed with the Supreme Court’s ruling today on the healthcare law. In a time where our national debt is growing and our economy is struggling to add jobs, President Obama’s healthcare law is currently estimated by CBO to cost almost double what the President promised. I believe this law threatens American jobs by imposing steep taxes and mandates on small businesses, and am deeply concerned the ruling gives Washington even greater power to intrude on personal freedoms. Congress must work to repeal it and find solutions that provide better, more fiscally sound healthcare options for our nation.” - ### -
06.21.2012	Congress just finished up a District Work Period. This short break from voting in our Nation’s Capital gave representatives a weeklong chance to hear directly from folks back home what is going on in their area. This week, I wanted to share some tid-bits of where I went and what I heard first-hand from my different stops across East Alabama. President Obama said recently “the private sector is doing fine.” He later clarified his remarks to say the economy is not doing fine, which I think far more accurately describes the situation that most East Alabamians face these days. As most folks can guess, nearly every concern boiled down to our weak economy. I started off my week in Macon County, making courtesy visits with city and county leaders to check in on local projects. With Macon County unemployment over 10 percent, it is clear more jobs in the county is the top concern. I also made several visits in Montgomery County, speaking first to the Chamber of Commerce and then at a “Congress on Your Corner” town hall event in Pike Road. Folks were concerned about the future of Maxwell Air Force Base – and the jobs that could be lost if airplanes from the 908th Air Wing get moved. As a member of the Armed Services Committee, that’s something we’re trying to prevent. I also visited Russell County and Ft. Benning. While there, I had the chance to talk with some of our soldiers at the new Warrior Transition Battalion, as well as visit Chattahoochee Valley Community College. Like other community colleges across East Alabama, CVCC helps provide students of all ages the skills needed to help find and retain good paying jobs in this very tough economy. I also visited the community of Eastaboga in Calhoun County. There, Rainbow Omega is a non-profit that “provides residential and vocational programs for adults with disabilities.” It is an amazing place, and one that provides jobs for many of our fellow citizens that may have difficulty finding work. When I returned to D.C. this week, I held a live Tele-town Hall meeting, and heard what was on the minds of folks I didn’t have the chance to visit with. Again, it was almost all about the future of our economy and getting our people back in good paying jobs. Folks also shared concerns over what the outcome will be of the Supreme Court’s decision on the health care law. So there we have it. Our economy is in fact not doing fine. Congress needs to do what it can to help make things better. As always, please contact me on this or any issue by visiting my website at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
06.01.2012	For many, Memorial Day was the start to summer when school’s finally out and the swimming pools are open for business. But for other families, Memorial Day meant mourning the loss of loved ones in uniform who paid the ultimate sacrifice in wars like Iraq or Afghanistan or other conflicts in our history. We live in an amazing country. Although we are in tough economic times, America is resilient. Our forefathers and those who laid down their lives to make the United States what it is today and keep us free and safe are truly heroes. All of our brave men and women in uniform who have served or are currently serving and their families sacrifice so much in order for them to defend our freedoms. In return, we owe them and their families the best we can give them – and not just on holidays reserved in their honor or in their memory. Recently I visited the Bill Nichols Veterans Home in Alexander City. That facility is the type of facility our Veterans deserve. They do a great job there. That home is a reminder of the commitment our nation made to our Veterans in return for their service. That commitment was discussed this week in Washington, as the House passed the fiscal year 2013 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill. This important bill funds our Veterans’ benefits and programs that have been earned through years of sacrifice and toil by our brave men and women and their families. As our nation has done in past wars, we are now experiencing many new Veterans of the recent wars in Iraq and Afghanistan coming home to rejoin their families and communities, to continue their service or find a civilian job. Our commitment to them should remain strong and steadfast, as it was with past generations of heroes. Programs such as job training, counseling, and housing services are part of the pact we have made with those who have given their all to support and defend our nation. I was proud to join my colleagues in supporting this legislation as it passed the House of Representatives. We owe so much to these brave men and women and their families. As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I will continue to fight for their best interests since they fought so hard for ours. As always, contact me on this or any issue by visiting my website at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
05.18.2012	In recent weeks it seems too many in Washington, Republicans and Democrats alike, would rather focus on issues other than what’s most important – our economy. Across East Alabama folks are still hurting and are more interested in seeing our unemployment rate fall from 7.3 percent. At least Alabama is doing a little better than the national average of 8.1 percent. When the national unemployment number was recently released, President Obama called it ‘good news,’ but why? Our economy has been at or above an 8 percent unemployment rate for the last 39 months. That is a total of over three years. I believe we must not allow our expectations to fall with regard to what is good economic news. 115,000 new jobs in April? Good news for those who got a job, but not the 250,000 jobs needed to grow. How about an unemployment rate falling to 8.1%? Also not good enough, especially because more Americans simply gave up looking for work. The past two weeks have been very focused on social issues, such as same sex marriage, instead of the main target of creating and keeping good-paying jobs for folks across the United States and reining in government spending that does not do enough to help boost our economy. Unfortunately one area of government that does help our economy, but is facing unsustainable reductions, is the Department of Defense. As of writing, this week the House will consider H.R. 4310, The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013. As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I was proud to contribute to this important piece of legislation that helps rebalance the Defense budget to be more consistent with the threats our country faces. It also helps keep faith with our men and women uniform and those that have served. Some of the defense cuts proposed by the Obama Administration would have not only cost many folks good-paying jobs, but more importantly would have weakened our national defense to the point it could threaten our ability to respond to threats. The Defense Department is not above budget scrutiny. But defense spending is very different from other Federal spending and it has a direct effect on our economy. Here in East Alabama, we are proud of our military and contribute mightily to it. We must stay focused on improving our economy and creating and keeping our jobs without risking our national security. As always, contact me on this or any issue by visiting my website at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
05.16.2012	Today, Chairman Mike Rogers (AL-03) of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security said TSA’s failure to properly report and monitor security breaches at our nation’s airports is “unacceptable” and must be immediately fixed. A recent DHS Inspector General’s report found up to 42 percent of all security breaches were not properly reported up the chain of command at TSA. The report was highlighted in a hearing today. “The traveling public knows all too well about TSA’s shortcomings, but TSA’s lack of understanding of airport security breaches is a critical oversight many folks don’t even know about. Only being aware of almost half of the breaches is unacceptable and makes it impossible to fix the gaps when they are not made known. “We must make certain the billions of taxpayer dollars we spend screening passengers is not in vain if systemic vulnerabilities exist through the back doors of our airports. “Ten years after 9/11, TSA must get smarter because terrorists keep changing their tactics. TSA should focus resources to utilize risk-based security rather than the outdated one-size-fits-all approach to assume everyone is a terrorist until proven otherwise. With security breaches at our airports, TSA should act immediately to get the situation under control,” Rogers said. At the hearing today entitled “Access Control Point Breaches at Our Nation's Airports: Anomalies or Systemic Failures?”, the subcommittee heard testimony from John Sammon, Assistant Administrator at TSA and Charles Edwards, the DHS acting Inspector General. Rogers has served on the Committee on Homeland Security since 2005. He is also a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. ###
04.27.2012	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks on the first anniversary of the deadly tornadoes that struck across Alabama on April 27, 2011, killing over 250 Alabamians. “So many families were devastated by these storms. Hundreds of lives were lost. People lost their homes and businesses. Entire communities were simply destroyed, all during a horrible show of nature’s wrath a year ago today. “But as during any adversity that has faced our citizens, so many Alabamians stood up to help their brothers and sisters in need. Communities came together to help people recover. The outpouring of support to help people get back on their feet is a testament to our great state and the character of those we call our neighbors. “As buildings are rebuilt and recovery continues, we will not forget the tragedy that stuck our state last April. There is still work that needs to be done and challenges too many people still face. I hope everyone will keep the victims of those storms and their families in our prayers, and remember the kindness and generosity of all those who gave after the storms to help their fellow citizens in their time of need,” Rogers said. -###-
04.20.2012	Every year, every one of us across East Alabama prepares for and usually dreads Tax Day. That day in mid-April when we ensure we have gotten our tax returns filed on time. According to the non-partisan Tax Foundation, each American will work 107 days just to pay their Federal, state and local taxes. That’s a lot of work, and Americans are rightly asking these days what exactly they’re getting for their tax dollars. It goes without saying that during these tough times, we should not be increasing the number of days people must work just to pay their taxes. As of writing, taxes are not only on the minds of families and businesses, but they continue to be a hot topic on Capitol Hill. Lawmakers in both the House and Senate are taking different approaches to revamp our complicated, cumbersome tax system and help contain our rapidly rising debt. I am most interested in pursuing a simplification of our tax code. A flatter and fairer tax code with fewer loopholes would go much farther toward leveling the playing field and helping bring our massive debt under control. Getting this done shouldn’t be so difficult. Our tax code is too large, too long and costs Americans far too much in time and expense just to comply with the IRS. With the national unemployment rate at 8.2 percent and Alabama’s unemployment rate at 7.6 percent, I also believe as Congress debates this issue that now is not the time to raise taxes on any American. We should be focused like a laser on trying to save and create good paying jobs in this weak economy, especially by our small businesses. Just this week, the House of Representatives passed a bill that addresses both taxes and helping our small businesses. The Small Business Tax Deduction bill, which I voted for, would cut taxes for small businesses of 500 people or less by 20 percent, helping small businesses thrive and grow. This bill is one of over 30 the House of Representatives has passed to help America’s job creators. By providing some tax relief, these small businesses should be able to create and keep good paying jobs across the country. The tax reform debate will continue throughout this year. If you have ideas as to how we can make the tax code simpler and fairer, please send me your thoughts. As always, contact me on this or any issue by visiting my website at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
03.23.2012	As we approach the 2nd anniversary of the passage of President Obama’s signature healthcare law, many folks across East Alabama remain deeply concerned about its impact on our economy and want the law repealed. I agree. According to a March 19th Ramussen survey, 56 percent of those surveyed favor repeal of the Affordable Care Act, sometimes referred to as Obamacare. Hardworking families and our nation’s seniors need both quality and dependable healthcare. It’s a complex challenge. But I simply don’t believe the healthcare law provides that piece of mind when it comes to healthcare for folks of any age in our country. Many across East Alabama may have seen on the news recently the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates the healthcare law will cost almost double what the President originally said it would. At a price tag of $1.76 trillion over the next ten years, it just doesn’t sit well with most folks. It certainly doesn’t appear to have helped lower the overall cost of our healthcare system, as the legislation was intended to do. The CBO also estimates approximately 4 million American workers will lose their health insurance provided by their employer because of this burdensome law. How can we allow this to happen? This week, I am fighting to repeal a provision in the healthcare law called the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB). This provision creates a panel of what I consider to be 15 unelected Washington bureaucrats to ration Medicare benefits as they see fit to our seniors. It’s bad policy. Seniors need to be more in control of their Medicare coverage and benefits, not less. I will continue to advocate for repealing this board made of Washington bureaucrats who are not elected to the position on the panel. It is just not right. Of course full repeal of the law will be difficult. Nevertheless I strongly supported H.R. 2, the Repealing the Job-Killing Health Care Law Act, which would repeal the healthcare law. Some of the most outlandish parts of this law have already been shelved by the President's own Administration because they are simply unworkable, such as the CLASS Act. Don’t forget that other portions, most importantly the individual mandate which requires all Americans to purchase healthcare coverage, are about to be considered by the Supreme Court for possible violations of the Constitution. The ruling will have huge consequences either way. The House continues to work to repeal this law in full and by piece, but ether way I’m convinced it is bad economic medicine for America. As always, contact me at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
03.09.2012	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks following passage of H.R. 3606, the JOBS (Jumpstart Our Business Startups) Act, that passed the House 390-23. “With the current state of our economy, Congress should be doing everything it can to help the heartbeat of our local economies – small businesses and entrepreneurs – have the opportunity to grow and create good paying jobs for hard-working Alabamians. “This bipartisan bill will help cut through some of the red tape these small businesses face. I am pleased this bill passed with my support and hope Congress will continue to stay focused on job creation,” Rogers said. The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (JOBS Act) removes government barriers to job creation and economic activity. The JOBS Act, comprised of six bills previously approved by the Financial Services Committee, is designed to help startups and entrepreneurs get off the ground, access capital and create jobs. -###-
03.09.2012	Across East Alabama, folks are downright angry about the rising costs of gas and they have every reason to be. So am I. According to AAA, the national average for a gallon of regular gasoline is $3.76. In February it was $3.47, so in one month, it has increased 29 cents and from the way things are going, it seems that trend will continue. With our national unemployment at 8.3 percent and Alabama’s at 8.1 percent, our economy is still bad. Folks across Alabama and the nation are still tightening their financial belts to make ends meet. If gas prices continue to rise – as it looks like they will – folks may be forced to choose between filling up their tanks or their pantry. As most folks have seen on the news recently, the situation in the Middle East continues to be in turmoil. Just this week, I met with representatives from the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC). Like most folks in East Alabama, I am fully supportive of our ally, Israel. As Iran continues to pursue its rogue nuclear weapons program, the constant threat of closing the Strait of Hormuz remains. Almost 20 percent of the world oil trade crosses through the Strait of Hormuz, so if Israel and Iran enter into a military conflict, prices could soar. President Obama is asking other countries to step up oil production, but America doesn’t just need more distant sources of oil. We need real energy solutions here at home. For example, I wish Congress would get serious and allow the Keystone Pipeline XL to bring oil in from our friend and ally, Canada, to be refined into gasoline and help create jobs in America. We could also do more safe drilling here at home. We could open just 3 percent of Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and also drill from the Outer Continental Shelf. President Obama highlights America’s increased oil production in the US, but most of that has been on private land over which the Federal government has little control. One recent report, from the Institute for Energy Research, notes oil production on Federal lands declined by 11 percent last year. The time is now. The American people cannot continue to have gas prices stay on the rise in the current state of our economy. Everyone in Washington must help America become energy independent, which will lower the price at the pump. As always, contact me at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
03.01.2012	For over the past decade, the United States has been engaged in the Global War on Terror. This past December, President Obama ended our nation’s combat mission in Iraq. Barely a month later, his Administration announced our combat role in Afghanistan could end as early as next year. Regardless of one’s opinion on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, we all stand proud of our brave men and women in uniform. They’ve served our nation with honor. We especially will remember and continue to hold in our hearts all that paid the ultimate sacrifice in these conflicts. For the families of our brave men and women in uniform serving overseas, the end of our combat missions is welcome news. Many of our loved ones will be coming home to Alabama and across the United States. For other families here in the Calhoun County region, and especially for the civilian workforce of the Anniston Army Depot and its local partner companies, the drawdown is bittersweet news. When wars start, the Depot expands and has to hire more folks to keep up with the demand from our military. When wars draw down and our troops come home, the workload returns to its pre-war levels. We are already seeing the effects of the troop drawdown at the Depot with the recent announcement that many temporary employees hired during war surge would lose their jobs over the next few months. Any loss of jobs and their impact on our local families hurts greatly. It is a very difficult time for these folks. It’s also a tough time for our community, which is why I wanted weigh in on some of the challenges ahead that we face. Can any of these temporary jobs be saved or be made into permanent positions? I along with AFGE Local 1945, the Army and our state Senators, am working to find out. It is a very tough road given the troop drawdown and budgetary constraints. But at least we’ve got to try to see if the Army can work with us to develop or identify any immediate solutions for these temporary employees losing their jobs because of the troop drawdown. Long term the Depot faces many strategic questions. For example, how does it adjust its workforce to meet the new military strategy? How does it find additional work across the military to protect our permanent employees , and how does it position itself for the long haul by maintaining at least its core and pre-war workload? Most of the answers to these questions will be impacted by decisions from the Army leadership and the Obama Administration. What we must do as a community is to join together and fight for our Depot. That means all of us from the local Chamber of Commerce leaders, the leadership of AFGE Local 1945, our private sector partners, Governor Bentley, and all our elected officials from city hall, to Montgomery, to Washington, D.C. We must find opportunities for new work and press the Army to move that work to Anniston. Ensuring a steady stream of work into the facility, which helps protect ANAD’s thousands of good paying permanent civilian jobs, should be our number one priority. Anniston Army Depot has state-of-the-art facilities, a world class workforce, and the proven reputation of America’s “can do” spirit. But we should face this period of transition with a sober eye and resolve of steel. We are all aware of the dire fiscal condition our nation faces. This coupled with the President’s unwillingness to fully fund a national defense strategy I believe we need, and his request for a new round of BRAC, adds more uncertainty to the future. I oppose a new round of BRAC, especially while the Army is determining its path forward through the troop drawdown. If a new round of BRAC is approved in coming years, since we’ve been down that road before, as a community I believe we’re well positioned to fight for the Depot, with the Chamber having never stood-down their efforts since BRAC 2005, and ensure it remains the premier facility of its kind in America. I know firsthand what the Anniston Army Depot means to our community. Growing up, my father worked there and it helped put food on our table. Protecting and fighting for our Depot and its workforce is in my blood, and I have every confidence we’ll continue winning this fight. We all have a role to play, and I strongly encourage anyone who is ready to join this fight.
02.09.2012	It’s mid-February and hard to believe Spring Break is right around the corner for many of our kids and families. But for all of us across East Alabama, the coming spring also means gas prices will likely spike again. That of course brings more pain at the pump during these already tough economic times. Gas prices are already going up. According to AAA Alabama, the average price of gas is over 30 cents above the average this time last year. So the rising cost of energy is back in the news. For years this debate in Congress has tracked the rise and fall of energy prices, and with too few common sense solutions ever passed, we’re often left with the sense that our energy challenges simply are not being addressed fully enough. Yet it’s a debate we must keep having. Developing countries like China are consuming more of the world’s energy reserves, which in turn is pushing up prices. That’s why we must find ways to become more energy independent to help stabilize the cost of energy for our families and businesses. So far, this year the debate has centered on a project out west called the Keystone Pipeline XL. If built I believe this is the type of project that could make a huge difference in helping wean our country off of our dependence on the Middle East for oil and help create new good-paying jobs. The pipeline would bring more oil into the United States from Canada. But, as of writing, this project – which could create thousands of new jobs – is stuck in limbo in Congress. Let’s get it built. I also hope Congress will fully support another one of this year’s hot topics in energy: natural gas exploration. Recent media reports have shown that some American companies have been willing to bring some manufacturing jobs back to America to take advantage of its abundant natural gas resources. That won’t help ease the pain at the pump though. That’s why I recently joined with many of my colleagues in asking President Obama's Department of the Interior to develop a real off shore drilling plan, not just a symbolic one. We desperately need to increase our domestic sources of oil ultimately to help keep prices lower. As always, feel free to contact me on this or any issue at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
01.31.2012	Members of Alabama’s congressional delegation are supporting Governor Robert Bentley’s request for a federal disaster declaration in the wake of the last week’s tornadoes and storms. The entire delegation today sent a letter to President Obama seeking an expedited disaster declaration under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to permit the use of federal resources for response efforts. “The Alabama Emergency Management Agency has provided us with the details of the extensive property damage, numerous injuries, and deaths. The Governor has also communicated to us that the severity and magnitude is beyond the capabilities of the State and affected local governments. As you know, Alabama was struck by a series of tornadoes that were among the worst in the state’s history in April and these most recent storms have only caused further strain on state and local resources,” the letter stated. “The Alabama Delegation and all Alabamians came together after the horrible tragedies last April and I am pleased to see our Delegation come together once again to help ensure aid for those who were affected by the most recent storms and tornadoes,” Congressman Rogers said. - ### -
01.26.2012	2012 is off to a busy start and Congress has returned for its second session. Unfortunately, as our economy continues to limp along, there still seems to be too much “business as usual” around our nation’s capital. For example, let’s look at the budget. Every family across East Alabama lives by its income and expenses. That’s why it’s troubling that January 24th marked 1,000 days since a budget has been passed by the Democrat-controlled Senate. Americans are left scratching their heads knowing Congress can do better. Meanwhile, here in Alabama the unemployment rate has been going down. That seems to be good news, which we all hope means more people are finding work. Of course, there continues to be new layoffs as well, leaving even more people suffering and asking ‘where are the jobs?’ Jobs have to be our nation’s number one priority in 2012. In the House, Republicans have passed 27 bipartisan bills which are part of the Plan for America’s Job Creators, but all of these bills are still sitting idle in the Senate. Let’s get those bills passed. One of them deals with a once-obscure energy independence and jobs project called the Keystone Pipeline XL. This pipeline, designed to carry oil from Canada to refineries in the U.S., is estimated to create thousands of jobs. It also would help increase our energy independence by lowering the amount of oil we need to import from countries that may not have our best interests at heart. I hope President Obama ends his opposition to the project and instead helps our country become even more energy independent while helping get Americans back to work. And as February begins, I hope we will all take time to acknowledge Black History month. East Alabama is rich in history of great African Americans and was honored by the recent premier of the movie ‘Red Tails’ about the brave Tuskegee Airmen. We will continue to honor them and all of our civil rights leaders who have made a difference. As always, contact me on this or any issue at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
01.17.2012	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today in advance of Monday’s national day of remembrance recognizing the life and legacy of the late Civil Rights leader, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. “With the completion of the new Martin Luther King, Jr. monument in Washington, D.C. this year, our nation now has another beautiful reminder of Dr. King’s dream. It was a dream that helped pave the way for greater human equality across all races and religions. “Dr. King brought Americans together regardless of who they were,” Rogers continued. “He was a leader with a vision who brought great inspiration to our country and our state, and his legacy will live on forever. Let us all pause again on this day to remember his life and his legacy.” - ### -
12.09.2011	Today, U.S. Rep. Peter T. King (R-NY), Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, and U.S. Rep. Mike Rogers (R-AL), Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security, announced the establishment of the Congressional Transportation Security Caucus. King and Rogers will serve as co-chairs of the Caucus. The Caucus will serve as an informal group of Members of Congress dedicated to issues related to the security of aviation, passenger rail, freight rail, pipelines, buses, public transit systems, commercial trucking and other transportation systems in the U.S. Chairman King said,” More than 10 years after 9/11, the threat of a terrorist attack on our transportation systems is still very real, and there remains much work to be done to secure this vital sector. I commend Chairman Rogers for his initiative in establishing this Transportation Security Caucus.” Subcommittee Chairman Rogers said, “This Caucus will provide an important forum for Members to become more informed on the issues our Nation faces in better securing our transportation systems, which is essential for protecting American lives. The primary federal agency charged with transportation security, TSA, has grown into a bloated, inefficient bureaucracy in need of reform. This necessary reform will certainly be one of the major topics of discussion within the Caucus, as well as how we can promote technology innovation to assist private sector job creation and strengthen privacy protections for travelers.” The Caucus will hold informal meetings with senior Administration, Department of Homeland Security, and Transportation Security Administration officials, as well as those from the private sector. The Caucus will also facilitate Member site visits and host security technology expositions. -###-
12.06.2011	During the Alabama Farmer Federations’ (ALFA) 90th annual meeting in Mobile, Alabama on Sunday, December 4th, Congressman Mike Rogers was presented with ALFA’s ‘Service to Agriculture’ award. “Agriculture is such an important part of Alabama – from our history to our economy. Our farmers are a driving force for our state and help feed our citizens, our nation and the world,” Rogers said. Jerry Newby, president of ALFA, presented the award to Rogers calling him a ‘strong voice for agriculture.’ “I am honored to receive this special award and will continue to fight for the interests of Alabama’s farmers in Washington,” Rogers added. Rogers is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee and Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security.
12.01.2011	As most folks across East Alabama know, just before Thanksgiving, the Congressional “supercommittee” charged with finding $1.2 trillion in spending cuts announced it failed to reach an agreement. As Congress reconvenes in Washington this week, our huge debt continues to threaten our economic future. It’s my hope Congress and President Obama will redouble their efforts to come up with a compromise to help cut our debt and spending without hurting our military – especially in a time of war. I believe it can be done. The consequences of the failure of the “supercommittee” should not be placed on the backs of our military. Yet the economic threat from too much debt remains. During these tough economic times when the United States must tighten its financial belt like the rest of Americans are doing, our national unemployment still hovers at 9 percent with Alabama’s at 9.3 percent. Our economy needs help. There are no easy answers and everyone will feel some pain. Future spending must be disciplined too – that’s why I supported a Balanced Budget Amendment. Washington must also implement a pro-jobs agenda. The creation of private sector jobs will get our economy back on track. A growing economy coupled with spending discipline should start to reduce our debt burden. As of writing, the House of Representatives has passed over 20 bipartisan bills to help spur private sector job creation. They include legislation that helps stop job-threatening environmental regulations from being implemented; legislation reducing taxes on our small businesses, the heartbeat of our local economies; and bills to help rein in big government. For example, I supported H.R. 2587, the Protecting Jobs from Government Interference Act. This bill would help prevent the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) from dictating where private companies can locate, as they did to Boeing when they tried to locate in South Carolina. Unfortunately almost all of these bills have run into the brick wall that is the United States Senate. That has to change. It’s time to get bills like these signed into law, which should help the private sector create more good paying jobs.
11.18.2011	With the Christmas season soon upon us, Congressman Mike Rogers said today he is again encouraging East Alabamians to do their Christmas shopping locally this year and help support our local businesses in this very tough economy. “Everyone is sacrificing in this tough economy. For those folks who have the means this year, I think shopping at your local stores just makes sense. It helps support the small businesses that are the backbone of our local economies,” Rogers said. Last Sunday, Rogers participated in Alexander City’s “Holiday Open House” hosted by the local Chamber of Commerce. Like in other areas, many local shops in downtown Alexander City open their doors to customers to help showcase their merchandise in hopes of drawing in business this holiday season. “There are communities all across East Alabama that have historic downtowns or other important centers for commercial activity, all of which are rich in tradition and hospitality in their own unique ways. I hope folks keep our local businesses in mind, and the jobs they help create, when doing their Christmas shopping.” Rogers is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee and Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security. -###-
11.18.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following comments today after voting for H. J. Res. 2, a balanced budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution. “Our economy is suffering with little relief in sight, our unemployment rate remains high and Americans are discouraged about the future of our country. Most East Alabamians agree with me that the Federal government’s inability to live within its means is one of the long-term threats to our nation’s economic health. That’s why I supported H.J. Res. 2 because I believe over the long term a balanced Federal budget each year is better for our economy. “At a time when the national debt is expected to surpass 100% of GDP, Washington needs to take a lesson from hard working families and get its budget in order. The American people deserve better. This bill is a good first step in helping advance the debate about cutting unnecessary spending and holding Washington accountable for its spending. I am disappointed it did not receive the required two-thirds majority vote for passage.” Rogers is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee and Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security. -###-
11.17.2011	As Thanksgiving Day quickly approaches, most of us across East Alabama count our blessings and are thankful for the good things in our lives. And even in these tough economic times when families continue to struggle to make ends meet and Alabama’s unemployment rate looms near 10 percent, we all see neighbors helping neighbors and folks giving to those less fortunate. Each year I try to highlight a few initiatives that are helping those in need. Following are a just a few. In Anniston, a group called Elevation was started to reach out to the citizens of Anniston. This Christian-based organization started in 2009, and this summer they provided Bibles to over 800 homes. Currently, they are collecting clothes, coats and blankets for their clothes drive. To participate, drop off these items at 2700 Brighton Avenue in Anniston. The items will be given away in Zinn Park in December. Sadly, hunger remains a present and even growing tragedy among all too many of our fellow citizens. Also in Anniston, like so many other congregations, the Meals of Mercy program at The Bridge at First United Methodist Church feeds several hundred people a week. At Auburn High School in Auburn, students have started the Committee of 25 because it costs 25 cents to provide a meal for a child. This group of teenagers is raising money and food for children in Africa. Since the tornadoes tore through Alabama in April, folks at First Baptist Church at Williams, again like so many congregations and charitable organizations in devastated areas, have worked to help rebuild homes for tornado victims in Calhoun County. Folks are continuing to care for our homeless citizens. In Montgomery County, the Faith Crusade/Montgomery Rescue Mission provides housing for homeless men and women, hygiene products and canned goods. In Tuskegee, Divine Inspirational Ministries provides shelter to homeless men and Veterans. The facility provides GED training and job placement for those in need. In Coosa County, a Thanksgiving and Christmas relief drive is held to collect clothing, canned goods and toiletries for families who need it most. All of the good deeds happening every day across East Alabama could not be listed here, but this sampling of events shows that even in the worst of times, Alabamians look out for and take care of each other. I wish everyone a happy and blessed Thanksgiving. Please feel free to contact me at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03
11.07.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers announced today Congressman Peter King (NY), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, will visit the Center for Domestic Preparedness (CDP) and Auburn Canine Detection Facility in Anniston on Thursday, November 10th. The CDP opened in 1998 as a one-of-a-kind all-hazards training center. The facility offers training on a range of weapons from chemical to explosive giving first responders from all over the world a hands-on training experience. “I am pleased to announce Chairman King’s visit to Anniston, and am looking forward to showing him many of the homeland security initiatives we have going on here in East Alabama,” Rogers said. “The Center for Domestic Preparedness plays a key role in the training of our nation’s first responders,” said King. “I am pleased to have the opportunity to come to Alabama and see for myself the important role this facility provides for our nation’s homeland security.” The CDP has been responsible for training first responders around the country, from those that helped this past April after the deadly tornadoes that devastated Alabama to the officer responsible for helping avert the Times Square incident in New York City last May. Auburn University also trains explosive detection canines at a facility in Anniston used by the U.S. military, DHS and the U.S. Capitol Police. “The CDP trains first responders from all over the globe at that facility, and all their employees do a great job. I deeply appreciate Chairman King’s visit and his ongoing support for helping foster the CDP’s growth and development,” Rogers added. Rogers is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee and Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security. -###-
11.03.2011	When deadly tornadoes ripped across Alabama in April, killing hundreds and leaving communities in ruins, our first responders - volunteer firefighters, police and medical personnel – sprang into action. In our rural communities, these folks serve as our first line of defense by keeping us safe. Like our soldiers in uniform, we are all deeply indebted to their service and sacrifice. Our communities devastated by the storms are recovering as a result of their efforts. East Alabama’s first responders are our front line in efforts to help secure our homeland. But that’s not the whole story of what homeland security means to Alabama. Our state is becoming an important leader in helping form and carry out security efforts. For example, folks may know that located in Calhoun County is the Center for Domestic Preparedness (CDP), the only weapons of mass destruction (WMD) training facility that provides hands-on training to civilian emergency responders. Especially in this time of threat to our nation, the CDP plays a vital role in our preparedness. The CDP is also home to the Noble Training Facility. According to the CDP, it’s “the only hospital facility in the United States dedicated to training hospital and healthcare professionals in disaster preparedness and response.” These facilities are impressive, but they are not the only contribution our state is making to homeland security. Our universities play a vital role. Auburn University and Jacksonville State University offer programs beneficial to first responders and those with an interest in a career in homeland security. Auburn University also trains explosive detection canines at a facility in Anniston used by the U.S. military, DHS and the U.S. Capitol Police. Near Birmingham, the U.S. Secret Service runs the National Computer Forensics Institute. This facility trains local and state law enforcement, district attorneys and judges how to solve crimes committed with computers and on the internet. This advanced crime fighting is known as cybersecurity. At the beginning of this year, I was selected as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Transportation Security. This subcommittee has jurisdiction over TSA. Most folks reading this, like I am, have gotten fed up with TSA because of examples of outrageous experiences and reports about the agency’s airport screeners. I, in that regard, believe TSA is in dire need of change and am working toward that end. But TSA does more than airport security. They also secure everything from trucking, to freight rail, to pipelines – all of which are important to Alabama’s economy. As Chairman, I am working to make sure TSA does not unnecessarily slow or hurt the free flow of commerce through burdensome and job-threatening regulations on the commercial transportation sector. We must continue to keep our homeland safe, and Alabama is growing in its influence and impact in that effort. Contact me at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
11.03.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Rogers (AL-03), Chairman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee of the Committee on Homeland Security held a hearing entitled “TSA Reform: Exploring Innovations in Technology Procurement to Stimulate Job Growth, Part III.” This was the third and final in a series of hearings on TSA procurement reform. Rogers said, “After these three hearings, I believe TSA drastically needs to improve its technology development and procurement process. TSA’s failure to develop a sound procurement process could lead to questionable security protocols and a colossal waste of taxpayer dollars.” Today’s hearing included witnesses from TSA, the Science and Technology Directorate, the DHS Office of the Chief Procurement Officer, and Office of Inspector General. At the two previous hearings, the subcommittee heard testimony from former federal officials and private industry. Rogers continued, “I believe private industry plays a critical role in our overall security. There is not enough involvement with TSA in security technology development today. In addition, the process for setting technology standards is badly in need of reform and faith in the Department’s Science and Technology Directorate is waning. I am concerned about what the consequences of these ongoing failures could be.” The subcommittee is continuing its efforts to develop legislative proposals to address TSA’s procurement short comings. Rogers has served on the Committee on Homeland Security since 2005. He is also a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. -#-#-#-
10.31.2011	Today Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement in response to the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) accepting the membership of the Palestinian Authority to their agency. "I am deeply troubled by the actions taken by UNESCO in voting to accept the Palestinian Authority as a member of their agency. This act by the Palestinian Authority is just another ploy as they aim for legitimacy and an attempt to bypass the needed one-on-one peace talks vital to an agreement to stabilize the region. “Although the United States did not vote in favor of this measure, we could have better leveraged our international allies to help prevent this from happening. The vote aside, I am encouraged the State Department has indicated they will follow current U.S. law which mandates the withholding of funds to UNESCO. “I hope Congress, with my support, will help ensure UNESCO receives no American taxpayer dollars with zero exceptions. And I hope we reevaluate other questionable UN programs. The United States should continue to support her strongest ally in the Middle East, Israel, in pursuit of peace for the region.” -###-
10.27.2011	Today Congressman Mike Rogers called for Treasure Secretary Timothy Geithner to stand up to China and other foreign countries practicing unfair market and trade policies that hurt the United States and keep Americans out of good paying jobs. Rogers said, “During these tough economic times and high unemployment, it is unconscionable to me that American workers are being bullied by China’s currency manipulation. We must hold China accountable as they continue to hurt our struggling economy.” In his letter, Congressman Rogers requested Secretary Geithner release the written report, which was due on October 15th, to Congress so Members could get a complete outlook of the currency manipulation issue and work together to best handle the situation without causing a trade war. "There is without a doubt, strong bipartisan support in Congress to decisively act on this issue. But this action must be prudent and not unintentionally end up harming the American jobs we seek to protect.” Congressman Rogers serves as Chairman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee on the House Homeland Security Committee and is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. -###-
10.07.2011	As folks across East Alabama and this country know, it is all about the jobs – keeping the ones we have and creating new ones for folks who have been out of work during these tough economic times. The last unemployment numbers show that Alabama’s unemployment hovers at 9.9 percent and the national unemployment rate sits at 9.1 percent. This is proof that Congress needs to take action to help the private sector create more jobs. This past week, the House of Representatives debated two bills on the jobs front, both to help slow job-threatening regulations by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). If signed by the President, these bills could prevent the agency from layering additional burdens on our small businesses that could stifle job growth. H.R. 2681, the Cement Sector Regulatory Relief Act, and H.R. 2250, the EPA Regulatory Relief Act, stop for over a year some overreaching EPA regulations. As you are aware, many small businesses, the heartbeat of our local economies, believe they are being over-burdened by regulations. These two bills put specific job-threatening regulations in a holding pattern and require the EPA to go back to the drawing board. Even EPA has admitted in a letter to Congress that to “calculate standards that fully reflected operational reality” was difficult. Many folks know we have a big paper mill in Russell County. That plant employs hundreds of workers in good paying jobs. If passed by the EPA, the proposed regulations covering their boilers could hurt these types of mills. This is just unacceptable. I hope Congress will continue to review regulations that overly burden our small businesses, making it more difficult for them to survive and thrive in this tough economy. This economy won’t get back on track until more folks are employed. People across East Alabama and the United States deserve better and I hope ‘jobs’ will be at the top of the list for Congress and our President. Contact me at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
09.23.2011	Today, U.S. Rep. Peter T. King (R-NY), Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, joined Rep. Mike Rogers (R-AL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Transportation Security, in introducing legislation to authorize the functions and responsibilities of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) for Fiscal Years 2012 and 2013.The Committee on Homeland Security has sole jurisdiction over all TSA security matters. The “Transportation Security Administration Authorization Act of 2011,” H.R. 3011, authorizes TSA to carry out its mission of securing the nation’s transportation systems from attack, while specifically aiming to streamline operations, eliminate redundancy, lower costs and promote accountability. The legislation was marked up in subcommittee print form and passed by the Subcommittee on Transportation Security last week.Chairman King said, “We know that even 10 years after the attacks of 9/11, al-Qaeda, its affiliates and its adherents continue to target our transportation systems. Within the last two years, we have seen plots to blow up the New York City and Washington, DC subway systems, a Christmas Day attempt to blow up Northwest Flight 253 and an air cargo bomb plot involving packages shipped from Yemen. As this ongoing threat continues to evolve, TSA must adapt by targeting its resources and operating in a more intelligence-driven and risk-based manner. As demonstrated by a number of his actions recently, TSA Administrator John Pistole has begun moving in this direction. This legislation will ensure that TSA continues this common-sense shift.”Subcommittee Chairman Rogers said, “TSA is in need of fundamental reform. Since its establishment following the horrific attacks of 9/11, TSA developed a one-size-fits-all approach to security and has grown into a large bureaucracy, which has decreased its ability to adapt to the ever-evolving terror threat we face. H.R. 3011 is the first step in this process of reform, the result of which will be TSA performing its security mission more efficiently and effectively. This legislation, which mandates a top-to-bottom review of TSA, will increase security and expedite travel while ensuring the safe flow of people and commerce.”H.R. 3011 addresses all modes of transportation under TSA - passenger travel and commerce on planes, freight trains, trucks, mass transit, buses, and pipelines.Key provisions of the legislation include:• A risk-based program at airport checkpoints that would allow for expedited screening of trusted passengers, such as members of the military;• Establishes parameters for the screening of children at passenger screening checkpoints, to ensure that children are not subject to a pat-down unless there is the expressed direct consent of the parent for a screening anomaly cannot be resolved by checkpoint technology;• A comprehensive, agency-wide review of TSA to identify areas to improve efficiency and reduce costs to save taxpayer dollars, including the management of Transportation Security Officers (TSOs);• Accountability and training requirements for TSOs;• An air cargo advanced screening pilot program to strengthen cargo security by encouraging cargo carriers to provide shipment level data for air cargo bound for the U.S.;• Enhanced information sharing with the private sector;• The elimination of redundant background check requirements for truck drivers.The Subcommittee on Transportation Security has convened two recent hearings on TSA authorization and received testimony from TSA Administrator John Pistole, as well as surface and aviation industry stakeholders. -###-
09.22.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today after the completion of the chemical weapon incineration.“After almost a decade of destroying the chemical weapons stockpile in my hometown of Anniston, I am pleased to see the project completed. I applaud the employees of the Anniston Chemical Agent Disposal Facility for their hard work in eliminating these hazardous materials while keeping the residents of the Anniston area safe.“I am optimistic the end of this chapter in our history will help bring new opportunities for the area, which like so many areas across East Alabama is situated perfectly for economic growth and the attraction of new employers.” -###-
09.22.2011	Last Saturday, September 17th, we observed Constitution Day across the United States.The Constitution was adopted 224 years ago. Remembering what that document meant when it was written has been on many folks’ minds these days.Our country has faced its share of tough times and each generation has risen to the challenge. Currently, we are faced with challenges all around: a national debt crisis; an ongoing threat against terrorism; and of course we’re in the midst of one of the worst economic downturns since the Great Depression.For too many years, our nation’s unemployment rate has stalled around 9 percent. Even worse, Alabama’s unemployment rate for August sits at 9.9 percent.As the numbers demonstrate, families across East Alabama have the right to be concerned about the direction of our country.The question is how do we turn things around? As most folks have probably seen, the President unveiled this week the details of his deficit-reduction plan, which would among other things raise $1.5 trillion in new taxes.This comes on the heels of the $447 billion “second stimulus” President Obama offered earlier as a jobs package to Congress.The first stimulus bill passed in 2009, which I opposed, was far larger and I believe did more to grow government than help the private sector. I hope the lesson was learned that it is the private sector that creates jobs – not government.I oppose President Obama’s plan to raise taxes, which I believe could hurt small businesses and stifle job creation across the country. According to the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), 75 percent of small business owners file as individuals. So if their company makes over $250,000, they could be hit with higher taxes, which I am concerned would send a terrible message to those Americans out there trying to invest in their businesses and employ their workers.We can all agree that creating jobs and growing our economy is the number one issue our country faces.We can agree that we should eliminate unnecessary loopholes on the tax code, and to cut the special interest tax breaks. But I don’t support raising marginal income tax rates on anyone in such awful economic times.There has to be some accountability.The American people are demanding it.Which gets us back to the question of the Constitution and the direction of our country. That document has withstood the test of time. It will hold firm. But as we all work to get through these challenging times, it’s important we remember our Founding Fathers’ original vision for a federal government that focuses only on doing a limited number of things. As stated in the Tenth Amendment: “The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people.”Feel free to contact me on this or any issue at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
09.21.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers attended an event in the U.S. Capitol today supporting the United Through Reading program with Congressman Allen West (R-FL), a fellow member of the House Armed Services Committee.The United Through Reading program hosts over 270 recording locations around the world offering parents serving in the military the opportunity to record a DVD reading storybooks to their children. In 2010, the program served nearly 325,000 children.“A child goes through a very difficult time while a parent is on the other side of the world serving their country. Worthy programs like these help our military families stay connected during these tough times. I applaud this important initiative and hope it continues to help make a difference for many children and their families during such challenging times in their lives,” Rogers said.Rogers is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee and serves on the House Homeland Security Committee. -###-
09.14.2011	A Congressional subcommittee today passed East Alabama Congressman Mike Rogers’ (R-Saks) bill to substantially reform the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). The TSA is known to most Americans as the Federal agency tasked with passenger screening at airports, but the agency also oversees security efforts across all transportation modes including rail, trucks, aviation and pipelines.Rogers said, “This is the first step to bringing fundamental reform to TSA. As all traveling Americans know, TSA is in dire need of reform and today we start that effort.”The bill includes provisions to require risk-based passenger screening that puts parents in charge of any pat down of their children. It also holds TSA screeners accountable for their failures. If passed into law, the bill also would eliminate and streamline regulations to help save and create private sector jobs, and help save millions in taxpayer dollars by requiring efficiencies and federal workforce reductions.Rogers said he is particularly pleased the bill includes the language of his MODERN Credentialing Act to help streamline some regulations for many transportation carriers.“Especially in this tough economy, the federal government should not get in the way of private sector jobs by issuing burdensome regulations. I am pleased this bill helps advance the debate over clearing out unnecessary hurdles imposed by TSA while continuing to help secure the movement of goods and commerce, as well as the traveling public,” Rogers added.Rogers has been a member of the Homeland Security Committee since 2005 and is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. -###-
09.09.2011	On the morning of September 11, 2011, life in America was changed forever.It was a day filled with shocking, evil acts and horrific scenes as planes struck important buildings in big and iconic cities across the northeast. Another plane was brought down by the heroic actions of its passengers in a rural Pennsylvania field.It remains a day that stays at the forefront of my mind as I work to serve you here in Washington, D.C.As we reach the ten year anniversary of the tragedies of 9/11, I hope all of us across East Alabama and America will reflect on that devastating day, remembering the families of the almost 3,000 lives lost that day at the Twin Towers in lower Manhattan, that rural field in Pennsylvania and the Pentagon in our nation's capital.I hope we all remember the swelling pride for the U.S.A. that was evident across the country. American flags dotted every downtown and every front porch.Since those attacks on United States soil, strengthening our national security has remained a top priority for America.The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) was formed after the 9/11 attacks and the experience of traveling - particularly by airplane - has changed significantly. The debate continues today on what exactly should be the screening process for air passengers and what kinds of intelligence are Transportation Security Administration (TSA) officials looking for as they screen the public.In 2005, I joined the House Homeland Security Committee. Today as the Chairman of the Transportation Security subcommittee, my focus remains on increasing the security of our traveling public, and working to ensure commerce moves as freely and safely as possible in the air, on trucks and buses, in pipelines and on our railroads.In these uncertain economic times, we must not lose our focus on keeping our nation safe from those who wish us harm.Our country has gone through many challenges over the past decade, But just as the American people have proved in decades past, we are a resilient people and resilient country, and we will always overcome adversity. We will again. A decade later, let's continue to pray for our country, and honor the innocent Americans who lost their lives in the attacks on September 11th. Let's also continue to pray for Americans serving overseas in uniform, and for their safe and speedy return home.Feel free to contact me on this or any issue at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
07.29.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after S. 627, the Budget Control Act passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 218 to 210. All six Republican members of the Alabama delegation supported the bill.Following the vote Rogers said, “This bill, though not perfect, is the closest thing to a solution to our nation’s debt crisis on the table now for a vote. This bill immediately mandates real spending cuts while denying President Obama his requested blank check to keep up his out-of-control spending spree. Then it requires both the House and Senate to pass a Balanced Budget Amendment before President Obama can access any additional borrowing authority. Speaker John Boehner (OH) has stepped up to led our nation where President Obama has failed the American people in the face of an economic crisis. I hope the Senate will take immediate action and pass this bill so we can move forward and start focusing on job creation.” -###-
07.28.2011	DC)—With unemployment rising in Alabama and across the nation like the hot summer temperatures, it is time for Washington to get past the debt limit discussion and focus on our economy and job creation.A lot has been said recently about cutting spending and getting the Federal government off the backs of our small businesses and job creators.I believe the growth of government fueled by trillion dollar deficits, if left unchecked, will eventually crowd out private sector job growth. Our country now borrows over 40 cents on each dollar it spends.That’s why I support a new approach to government spending along the principles of the Cut, Cap and Balance bill that I voted for recently. We need to cut Federal spending, cap how much government can spend as a percentage of GDP and pass a balanced budget amendment.Additionally, there are just too many job threatening regulations coming out of Washington these days. Just this spring alone, the Obama Administration proposed 4,257 new rules and regulations.Excessive regulations threaten to slam the door on American job growth. They push jobs to China. They hurt our competitiveness and encourage Alabama manufacturers to look overseas.At the time of this writing, the House is working to cut over $1.5 billion from the budget of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and to limit its regulatory power. I strongly support this effort and hope President Obama will sign this bill to give small businesses a leg up on big government.Every family across East Alabama is struggling with high gas prices. To help, we should develop our home grown energy resources. But government bureaucrats too often say no. Domestic energy exploration should not be held hostage by regulators.In Washington, everything that goes on should be all about jobs. I hope Congress will continue to cut spending and the red tape so the private sector can get to work and good-paying jobs can be created.Feel free to contact me on this or any issue at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
07.19.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after H.R. 2560, the Cut, Cap and Balance bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 234 to 190."Washington’s spending addiction is out of control. After two consecutive trillion dollar deficits under the Obama Administration, the national debt stands at $14.3 trillion and is becoming rapidly unsustainable. It is a direct threat to our economy and jobs. Instead of following the lead of folks across America who have tightened their belts in these tough economic times, Washington just keeps spending its way deeper in a hole. This bill makes cuts and caps to spending, but most importantly, it forces Washington to live within its means. I am pleased to have supported this bill today and hope President Obama will take a long and hard second look at it.” -###-
07.15.2011	As you may have recently seen in the news, the national unemployment rate crept up to 9.2 percent for the month of June.This marks the highest unemployment rate this year and is the third consecutive month the jobless rate has ticked up.According to the Alabama Bureau of Labor Statistics, the state’s unemployment rate for May 2011 was up 9.6 percent, up a tenth of a percent from last year and up .3 percent since April 2011. This means over 200,000 Alabamians are out of work.All this news just confirms what folks in East Alabama already know - the debate in Washington must be about jobs and getting our economy moving.I believe there are three immediate things Washington can do to help get our economy back on track and help restore consumer confidence.First, Congress should cut spending. Second, say no to any job threatening tax increases, and third, lift the burden of over-restrictive government regulations from small businesses, community banks and job creators.One thing that we’ve learned over the past 29 months of the Obama Administration is that excessive spending is not the answer to fix this economic mess.With our $14.4 trillion national debt threatening to stifle long-term economic growth, we have learned a hard lesson, but a lesson Americans know – live within your financial means.I also strongly support a balanced budget amendment to make sure spending stays in line. New job-threatening tax increases? No way. Washington has a spending problem not a revenue problem.The burden of overly restrictive government regulations should be removed from the private sector so they can get back to work. Whether it’s the EPA or OSHA bullying small businesses, big government is not a friend of small business.I believe that American common sense, ingenuity, and hard work is the back bone of a strong and growing economy. Big government is a hurdle to this growth.Contact me on this or any issue at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
07.14.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Rogers (AL-03), Chairman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee of the Committee on Homeland Security, made the following statement in response to TSA’s decision to implement the Risk Based Security Pilot Program."I am encouraged that the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) is moving forward with a risk-based screening program. This has been a long time coming. I firmly believe that TSA needs to become an intelligence-driven, counterterrorism agency that utilizes risk-based screening methods to create a variable, multi-layered security system. TSA's current one-size-fits-all concept does not necessarily interface well with our diverse transportation systems, the flow of commerce and passenger travel. A risk-based approach will help focus valuable resources on higher-risk areas, rather than assuming everyone is a potential terrorist. My Subcommittee plans to continue its vigorous oversight of TSA by examining its implementation of this pilot program."Rogers has served in a leadership position with the Committee on Homeland Security since 2005. -###-
07.12.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Rogers (AL-03), Chairman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee of the Committee on Homeland Security held a hearing entitled “Industry Perspectives: Authorizing the Transportation Security Administration for FY 2012 and 2013” to provide a chance to hear directly from a diverse range of stakeholders in the transportation industry on their priorities for improving transportation security and offer their insights for the Committee’s ongoing work to increase TSA’s efficiency and effectiveness.“This hearing was a vital step to in helping develop a TSA Authorization bill that will help TSA better carry out its mission to keep our transportation systems secure. The panels raised many significant issues, from risk-based passenger screening to mass transit security challenges,” Rogers said.The Homeland Security Committee is already in the stages of developing a TSA Authorization bill and this hearing should make concerns and issues crystal clear when it comes to next steps. The bill should help streamline TSA’s initiatives when it comes to securing our transportation sectors across the nation.“I am pleased we were able to hold this important hearing today and hope it will help guide the process as we continue to work on this legislation to strengthen TSA’s security programs.”Chairman Rogers has served on the Committee on Homeland Security since 2005 and is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. -###-
07.08.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after co-sponsoring H.R. 2457, the Palestinian Accountability Act, which sets strict guidelines for any funds to be appropriated to a Palestinian Authority."It is wrong to spend taxpayer money to fund Middle Eastern governments that may seek to harm us. "When it comes to the safety and security of Israel, there should be no taxpayer money given to a Palestinian Authority that includes Hamas or fails to recognize Israel as a state for the Jewish people. In addition to this legislation we should not spend taxpayer funds in the newly formed Hezbollah government in Lebanon.“Spending American money on these countries can only be seen as funding regimes that have looked to harm the interests of Americans, and our ally Israel.” -###-
06.23.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today in response to President Obama’s proposed plan to drawdown U.S. Forces in Afghanistan.“Success in stabilizing Afghanistan is crucial to our national security. I would like to bring our troops home as much as anyone, but we must do it the right way. The sacrifices our brave men and women in uniform have made in Afghanistan have helped bring greater stability there, and must not be jeopardized by any withdrawal plan based on political expediency and not the real-world decisions of our commanders on the ground.” -###-
06.16.2011	June 17th marks the one year anniversary of what President Obama called the ‘Recovery Summer.’That summer, just a year ago, was when everything was predicted to begin turning around for the better. The economy was going to improve because Congress passed $1.6 trillion in stimulus spending and jobs would be plentiful.Yet, all of us across East Alabama are still waiting for that recovery to come. Today the United States sits at over $14 trillion in debt, and has an economy that simply hasn’t kicked in.Our country has suffered through 28 consecutive months of unemployment over 8 percent with unemployment now at 9.1 percent – the highest since December 2010.This is unacceptable.Congress needs to do more to help get our economy moving. For starters, besides cutting spending so the United States isn’t borrowing over 40 cents on each dollar it spends, Congress must act to help the private sector thrive, which helps businesses create good paying jobs.This week, President Obama’s Jobs and Competitiveness Council presented a report on their last 90 days of working to develop ideas to get our country’s economy back on track.Getting the input from the business community is a step in the right direction. But more aggressive steps must be taken to help on the jobs front.How about tax reform? Hard working families just survived another run-in with our creaky, inefficient tax code on April 15. Let’s give families and small businesses a boost by flattening rates and reducing the paperwork burden.Small businesses are still unable to obtain loans. Let’s tell the Obama Administration to stop blaming Main Street’s community banks for our financial mess. These small town businesses support our job creators, and it’s up to Congress to tell the Feds to get out of their way.How about cutting excess regulations? Many small business owners across East Alabama have told me government red tape is hurting their businesses. Let’s cut unnecessary regulations to help the private sector create jobs and keep the ones we have at home.Many small business owners across East Alabama have participated in America’s Job Creators survey, and if you haven’t, I urge you to go to my website at http://mike-rogers.house.gov and click the America’s Job Creators box to share your concerns with me. I want to hear from you.America faces many trials right now, but we are a resilient nation and people know we will make it through these hardships.I hope Congress and President Obama will work together to make our economy its number one priority.As always, feel free to contact me on this or any issue at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03. -###-
06.02.2011	As most families operate their households in East Alabama, when the money runs out, the spending stops.In tough economic times like these, budgeting is necessary to stay financially afloat.But up in Washington, it seems the same rules do not apply.Like previous presidents, President Obama is calling for an increase in our nation’s debt limit. Even with record Federal deficits, however, he calls for no further spending cuts to accompany that vote.Our economy can no longer afford that approach. According to the Congressional Budget Office, for the last two years, the budget deficit was $1.4 trillion and $1.2 trillion respectively. Our national debt is over $14 trillion and rising.Over the past few months, many fellow Alabamians have shared their views on whether or not to raise the debt ceiling. Most are opposed when not accompanied with real spending cuts.Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner has made it clear, without a debt increase come August 2nd the United States could begin defaulting if the debt limit is not raised before then.This week, the House of Representatives held a vote, as called for by President Obama, on raising the debt limit. This bill, H.R. 1954, failed to pass the House 318 to 97.This bipartisan rejection by the Congress of a debt limit increase without spending cuts sends a message that Congress must get serious about finding a solution to this crisis before it further weakens our economy.After all, it’s about jobs. It’s about a stronger, more competitive American economy. The massive $14 trillion debt is growing rapidly, and in a few short years will become unsustainable. It could choke out job growth by forcing massive tax hikes, higher interest rates and lower consumer confidence.Our great nation is at a crossroads. While I do not think Congress would allow the United States to default, which could harm our economy, I think Congress and the president should see this debate as a golden opportunity to help set our nation and government on a more financially sustainable path.But we all need to have a serious and frank conversation about such a proposal. Every spending program must be on the table. We need to see how we can strengthen and secure entitlements like Medicare, so critical for our seniors, for current and future generations.After this week’s vote on raising the debt limit, I think a clear message has been sent to the White House that Americans are sick and tired of the spending spree.More importantly, they want our economy to improve. Times are tough, very tough. It’s critical Washington gets its house in order so our economy can finally emerge from this awful recession less burdened by the weight of debt and unsustainable spending.I look forward to Congress debating this crucial issue and as always I look forward to your thoughts.Contact me at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
05.31.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today after voting against a bill that would raise the nation’s debt limit without cutting spending. The bill was H.R. 1954, which failed to pass the House 318 to 97 with seven members voting present.“Today a ‘clean’ debt limit bill called for by President Obama and House Democrats failed to pass the House of Representatives overwhelmingly.“This should send a crystal clear message to the President that Americans do not want to raise the debt limit until permanent, long term spending cuts are in place. Our massive debt is rapidly becoming unsustainable and a direct threat to our economy. Without real spending cuts and reducing the debt, our economy will never fully recover to create enough good paying jobs. To me the choice is simple: Cut spending now or face a dark future of economic stagnation.” -###-
05.27.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement today in honor of our service men and women as we will remember them on Memorial Day, May 30, 2011.“Memorial Day is a day we reflect on the memories of those brave men and women in uniform who selflessly gave their lives so we could enjoy our freedoms. These service men and women deserve our utmost respect for their dedication to our great country."As a nation at war in three theaters, we should remember those who have fallen, but also keep those still serving in the Armed Forces in our hearts and thoughts every day. Those men and women and their families should remain in our prayers as they continue to fight for our freedoms. God Bless the Troops.” -###-
05.24.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following statement after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu addressed a joint session of Congress today. “Israel is a true ally and friend to the United States. I will continue to stand firm with Israel and support Prime Minister Netanyahu in rejecting President Obama’s suggestion to go back to the pre-1967 borders. After over a half century of conflict with the Palestinians, Israel wants peace, and negotiating land swaps will never be enough to bring this struggle to an end.“As the most established democracy in the region, Israel exemplifies the core values of freedom and democracy. As Prime Minister Netanyahu said ‘Israel isn’t what is wrong with the Middle East, but Israel is what is right about the Middle East.’ I couldn’t agree more.”-###-
05.13.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Rogers attended a tree planting ceremony of a seedling from the historic oaks of Toomer’s Corner at Auburn University.Rep. Dennis Ross (FL), a 1981 graduate of Auburn University and colleague of Rogers’, organized the planting of the tree on the East side grounds of the United States Capitol Building in Washington, D.C.“The rich traditions of Toomer’s Corner can now grow deep in the grounds of our Nation’s Capital. It is a special day for Auburn University, and I am thrilled to be a part of it,” Congressman Rogers said.The oak trees at Toomer’s Corner have been a part of the school’s traditions for 130 years. In February of this year, the trees were poisoned with herbicide and have been under close surveillance by the university’s Horticulture Department. Every time an Auburn University sports team wins a game, especially football, students, alumni and fans rush to Toomer’s Corner to roll the trees with toilet paper. The trees are a symbol of the school and serve as a meeting place for the Auburn family.“After the devastating news of the tree poisonings earlier this year, knowing this seed will grow one day to shade the grounds of the Capitol should bring some hope and pride to all Auburn fans,” Rogers added.Auburn University’s undefeated football team won the 2010 BCS National Title in January.Auburn is located in Congressman Rogers’s congressional district. -###-
05.05.2011	On April 27th, 23 tornadoes ravaged the South as the second deadliest storms in United States history.As of writing, across the hardest hit areas in the state of Alabama, power is still out and searches for missing people are still underway with over 236 dead.The University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa, in an area of the state severely damaged, has cancelled classes for the remainder of this school year and delayed graduation from this month until August. Here across East Alabama, many lives were lost and homes destroyed.After the storms passed, I saw firsthand many of the devastated areas across Calhoun and Cherokee Counties, as well as Tallapoosa County. I am returning to these and other areas soon.People living in these counties, along with Coosa and Talladega, are eligible for individual disaster assistance by the Federal government. That will help, but more must be done.The damage we all have seen is unbelievable. All of our hearts go out to the families who lost loved ones and those who lost their homes and businesses.My office is assisting however we can, on the ground and in devastated communities.Through these tragedies, we have seen people come together. Strangers working to help other strangers, an outpouring of donations and supplies, and spontaneous efforts of so many to donate funds to help support victims and their families.FEMA has been on the ground to help, along with the good people of the Red Cross, the Salvation Army, and countless other groups helping with the response. FEMA may be contacted at 800-621-3362 or go to www.DisasterAssistance.gov.If anyone you know is having trouble getting the assistance they need, please let me or any of my offices know and we will provide any assistance we can.I know through this tragedy, the South will rebuild, and folks will come back stronger than ever because we are Americans and we are resilient.This was evident just this week, when almost a decade after the terrorist attacks on our own soil, the world’s most wanted man, Osama bin Laden, was killed.Ten years after close to 3,000 lives were lost and our country changed forever, justice was served. It proves that we, the American people, can be brought down, but can’t be kept down. We are fighters, we are hard workers and we are believers.All of us across East Alabama should continue praying for the victims and families of these horrific storms.But we should find hope in seeing neighbors who have never met lend a helping hand and folks across the country coming together to assist those affected by the storms.We are Americans, we are resilient and we will overcome the tragedies of April 27th.As always, feel free to contact me on this or any issue at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
05.04.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Rogers (AL-03), Chairman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee of the Committee on Homeland Security introduced H.R. 1690, the MODERN Security Credentials Act.“This bill takes a crucial step toward streamlining redundant and burdensome government regulations that are an impediment to economic growth in the transportation industry. I expect this bill to result in greater savings and less red tape for hard-working men and women who rely on security credentials for their livelihoods,” Chairman Rogers said.H.R. 1690 would require the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to streamline and eliminate redundancies in various transportation security credentialing regulations. These regulations cover programs including the Transportation Worker Identification Credentials, Airport Secure Identification Display Area Badges, Hazardous Material Endorsements to State Drivers’ licenses and others.Specifically, the bill would require the TSA to harmonize its security threat assessment processes across credentialing programs. In addition, this legislation would eliminate the security background check requirement for truck drivers as part of an HME, and instead require those drivers carrying security-sensitive materials to only acquire a TWIC.On Wednesday May 4, 2011 at 2pm in 311 Cannon HOB, the Transportation Security Subcommittee will hold a legislative hearing on H.R. 1690. Stephen Sadler, the TSA Deputy Assistant Administrator Transportation Threat Assessment and Credentialing, is scheduled to testify. Additionally, representatives of the trucking and aviation industries and an author of a recent study on this issue will testify on the bill.H.R. 1690 has been endorsed by the American Trucking Association, the Association of American Airport Executives, the United States Chamber of Commerce, and other organizations.Representative Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Oversight, Investigations, and Management, Representative Joe Walsh (R-IL) and Representative Mo Brooks (R-AL) are original cosponsors of the legislation.Chairman Rogers has served on the Committee on Homeland Security since 2005 and is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. -###-
05.02.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today regarding the U.S. military raid that led to the death of the world’s most wanted man, Osama bin Laden.“Osama bin Laden, the leader of al Qaeda, was finally brought to justice for the living hell he put Americans through almost a decade ago. His orchestrated terrorist acts took almost 3,000 American lives and caused a tragedy from which our nation is still recovering. Bin Laden’s death is a testament to the dedication of our men and women in our military and the sacrifices they have made to help defend our nation since 9/11. This action should serve as a warning to all terrorists that America’s pursuit of justice is relentless.“The celebrations across the country last night and excitement we all felt after learning about his death bolsters our patriotism, however, there still remains a serious terrorist threat to America. We must remain vigilant in continuing to protect ourselves and our great nation from another attack. God bless the USA.” - ### -
05.02.2011	Congress of the United StatesAlabama Congressional DelegationApril 28, 2011Members of Alabama's congressional delegation unanimously supported Governor Robert Bentley's request for an expedited federal disaster declaration in the wake of widespread tornado destruction in the state.The delegation sent a letter to President Obama Wednesday night in support of a disaster declaration under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, which authorizes the use of federal resources for emergency response and recovery efforts."The State of Alabama was struck by a series or tornadoes so devastating that they are already being termed as among the worst in our state's history," the letter stated.Approval of the request was confirmed late Wednesday night during a telephone call between the President and the Governor.The bipartisan letter was signed by Alabama's two Senators and all seven House members. Text of the letter below. Dear Mr. President,Please accept this letter in support of Alabama Governor Robert Bentley's request for disaster relief for Alabama. On Wednesday, April 27, 2011, the State of Alabama was struck by a series of tornadoes so devastating that they are already being termed as among the worst in our state's history. As of 8:15 p.m. Eastern Time, over 109 tornado reports had been issued in the southeast with many of those occurring in Alabama. The damage assessment is still ongoing, but on-the-ground reports have confirmed loss of life and very severe damage in cities and communities both large and small.Alabama Governor Bentley has declared a state of emergency under state law and state local officials are coordinating the response and cleanup. The resources of several state departments will be required to participate in the response efforts including the Alabama Emergency Management Agency, Department of Transportation, Department of Public Safety and others. Due to the severity of the storms and the widespread damage, Governor Bentley has confirmed that supplemental federal assistance is necessary to save lives, protect public health and safety and lessen the threat of a disaster.Thus, under the provisions of Section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, 42 U.S.C 5121-5208 (Stafford Act), and implemented by 44 CFR 206.36, we respectfully request that you declare an expedited major disaster for the State of Alabama as a result of tornadoes, high winds, flooding and severe storms that impacted areas of the State on April 27, 2011.Thank you for your consideration of this request as Alabama recovers from this tragedy.
04.15.2011	Today, U.S. Rep. Peter T. King (R-NY), Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, and Rep. Mike Rogers (R-AL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Transportation Security, announced that the Committee is beginning the process to move a TSA Authorization bill.The Committee on Homeland Security has sole jurisdiction over all TSA security matters.In a notification letter to TSA Administrator John Pistole, King and Rogers wrote that the legislation will “address the need for fundamental reform at TSA by streamlining programs, cutting wasteful spending, increasing effectiveness through partnering with other law enforcement agencies and the private sector, and strengthening your mission.”The signed letter is available at the Committee on Homeland Security website.The text of the letter sent to Administrator Pistole follows:April 15, 2011The Honorable John S. PistoleAdministratorTransportation Security Administration601 South 12th StreetArlington, VA 20598Dear Administrator Pistole:We write to inform you that the House Committee on Homeland Security intends to immediately begin the legislative process to move an authorization bill for the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). We look forward to working with you and would sincerely appreciate your assistance and insight as we embark on this process.Ensuring the security of our Nation’s vast and diverse transportation systems is a challenging task. We fully appreciate the demanding nature of your agency’s mission. Under your direction, TSA has made tangible improvements in becoming more of a counterterrorism agency and better utilizing its resources. However, obvious challenges remain.In our TSA authorization bill, we plan to address the need for fundamental reform at TSA by streamlining programs, cutting wasteful spending, increasing effectiveness through partnering with other law enforcement agencies and the private sector, and strengthening your mission. We strongly believe that the evolving nature of the threat against our transportation systems has led to a growing need for TSA to better target its resources and operate in a more intelligence-driven and risk-based manner. We look forward to partnering with you in this effort.Thank you for your prompt and personal attention to this request. We look forward to continuing to work with you to ensure the security of our Nation’s transportation systems.Sincerely,PETER T. KING MIKE ROGERSChairman ChairmanCommittee on Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security-###-
04.08.2011	Updated as of April 7, 2011 House Republicans want to keep the government open and cut spending. While we don’t know if Senator Reid will shut down the government, it would be irresponsible not to prepare for that possibility. The following questions and answers were compiled by the House Republican Conference, in conjunction with several authorizing committees, to provide House Republicans and their staffs with information related to the potential effects of a lapse in appropriations. The executive branch, not Congress, determines which executive branch activities are carried out during a lapse in appropriations, and therefore the information below is subject to change. As Congressional Research Service Report RL34680 notes, “Previous determinations of excepted activities and personnel would not necessarily hold for any future shutdown.” Note: the House Committee on Administration has prepared guidance for House operations during a lapse in appropriations that can be accessed here. Veterans: How would a shut down affect veterans’ pensions? According to the House Committee on Veterans Affairs, disabled veterans in receipt of disability compensation or pension checks should continue to receive those payments. Veterans with new or pending claims may be impacted with a delay in their claims until funding for claims processors is appropriated. How would a shut down affect survivor benefits? According to the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, survivor benefits are similar to disability/pension benefits paid to veterans. Thus, survivors currently in receipt of Dependency and Indemnity Compensation or Survivors’ Pension will continue to receive those payments. New claims may be delayed. The House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs is attempting to confirm this with the Administration. How would a shut down affect veterans’ educational assistance? The House Committee on Veterans Affairs attempted but was unable to get guidance from the Administration in an April 5th hearing. A bipartisan letter has been sent to the VA Secretary requesting a briefing on a shutdown contingency plan. How would a shut down affect veterans disability compensation and claims processing? According to the House Committee on Veterans Affairs, disability compensation would be the same for survivor, education, and pension benefits. Those checks would go out, but no new claims would be adjudicated. How would a shut down affect veterans housing? The House Committee on Veterans Affairs attempted but was unable to get guidance from the Administration in an April 5th hearing. A bipartisan letter has been sent to the VA Secretary requesting a briefing on a shutdown contingency plan. How would a shut down affect veterans Health services – through VA hospitals, reimbursement for other services? According to the House Committee on Veterans Affairs, the VA received a full year appropriation to operate its health care system for all of FY 2011. Therefore, veterans’ medical care would not be affected. Hospitals, clinics, Vet Centers, and homeless domiciliaries would remain open. What would happen to VA hospitals and clinics? Would they still operate and could veterans receive treatment, including pharmacological? If there was an emergency and the VA Offices were closed would the VA pay the bill if a Veteran went to a civilian hospital for treatment? According to the House Committee on Veterans Affairs, medical care is already fully funded is not an issue; however additional information is not being released by the Administration. The committee sent a bipartisan letter to the VA Secretary requesting a briefing tomorrow on shutdown contingency planning. Military: Would members of the military be paid? According to the House Committee on Armed Services, Military personnel would serve without pay until funds are appropriated by Congress and signed into law by the President. In any shutdown plan, all military personnel would be deemed exempt and would not be subject to furlough. Accordingly, military personnel on active duty, including reserve component personnel on Federal active duty, would continue to report for duty and carry out assigned duties. Generally, they would accrue pay but not receive a paycheck for any days worked after April 8th until an appropriations bill is passed. Once an appropriation is passed, service members would be paid for the days for which they received no pay. If there is a government shutdown at midnight on April 8th, service members would receive midmonth pay (on April 15th) for the 8 days of April covered by the current continuing resolution (CR). If there is a 1 week extension of the current CR through April 15th, service members would receive their normal midmonth pay for the first 15 days of April. Would military operations overseas be affected? How would it impact operations in the three war theaters? According to the House Committee on Armed Services, in developing the Department’s shutdown plan, the Secretary of Defense would ensure mission accomplishment of critical activities that are needed to prosecute the war in Afghanistan, to complete the military mission in Iraq, and to ensure safety of human life and protection of property including operations for the security of our nation. These activities would be considered “exempt” from shutdown. The Service Secretaries, under the DOD guidance, would also have flexibility to determine what activities should be exempt. How would services and benefits for military families be impacted? According to the House Committee on Armed Services, though the shutdown would have a direct impact on families, according to guidance issued by the Department of Defense, among the exempt activities that would continue are: Inpatient care in DOD hospitals and acute and emergency outpatient care in DOD hospitals and treatment facilities, but not things like elective surgeries or other procedures. Department of Defense schools, “to the extent required by law.” Legal assistance for deploying and deployed service members. Morale, Welfare and Recreation activities supporting exempt activities. For example, operation of mess halls, physical training, and child care activities required for readiness; and any activity funded solely through non‐appropriated funds. Would resources be available to troops? (ammunition, vests, equipment, etc) According to the House Committee on Armed Services, the Department’s guidance does not identify every exempt activity, but makes it clear it would be applied in the context of a Department at war, with decisions guaranteeing robust support for those engaged in war, and with assurance that the lives and property of our nation’s citizens would be protected. What would happen to military installations? Would they be closed? According to the House Committee on Armed Services, the Department of Defense and each of the Service Secretaries would have latitude in determining which operations and activities are exempt from the shutdown. According to DOD guidance, military operations and activities determined necessary for national security, including administrative, logistical, medical, and other activities in direct support of such operations and activities would be exempt. Would defense contract operations continue? According to the House Committee on Armed Services, DOD guidance is that contractors performing under a contract that was fully obligated prior to the expiration of appropriations may continue to provide contract services, whether in support of exempt activities or not. However, new contracts may not be executed unless the contractor is supporting an exempt activity. International Affairs: Would foreign embassies and Consulates be shut down? According to the House Foreign Affairs Committee, State Department internal guidance has been finalized, but not yet promulgated (which would require a decision at the most senior level). While they cannot talk specific details, it would almost certainly parallel their practice during the FY1996 shutdown, which paired down Embassy/Consulate staffs to essential personnel. While they still would provide some level of American Citizen Services overseas, they would curtail visa processing. Benefits: Would Social Security checks still go out? If the checks are stopped, would all monies due be paid eventually? Because Social Security benefits are not subject to appropriation, the Social Security Administration has told the House Committee on Ways and Means that the checks would go out. Would Medicare payments be made, to doctors, hospitals, including emergency hospitalization and ER visits? The House Committee on Ways and Means asked the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) if they have any information as to what would happen if there were a government shutdown and CMS would not give any guidance. According to Ways and Means, CMS had not thought about it. According to Ways and Means, the House Committee on Financial Services also made a similar request to CMS. CMS did note that Medicare doesn’t pay in real time. There’s a minimum two‐week lag time, so if the government is shut down for more than two weeks there could be an issue. CMS could also hold claims like they did with doctors in a previous situation. According to the Congressional Research Service, non‐essential services could see an impact. The U.S. Department of Health & Human Services will have to issue guidance on what they deem to be essential. Would Medicaid/SCHIP payments be made? According to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, because Medicaid allotments are paid to states in advance on a quarterly basis, it is likely states will not see an immediate impact from a temporary government shutdown and consequently, nor will providers who serve the Medicaid and SCHIP populations. What would happen with disability benefits (SSDI)? According to the Committee on Ways and Means, disability benefits would continue to be paid. New benefit applications for retirement, disability, and survivors benefits may be delayed depending on the staffing plan Social Security develops, as the number of staff on hand would determine the amount of work processed. The plan is still with OMB for their review. What would happen with Unemployment Benefits? According to the House Committee on Ways and Means, benefits weren’t affected during the 1996 shutdown, and as mandatory spending, they would not expect them to be. States were just transferred their quarterly amounts to pay state benefits through at least the next two months. There is a concern about federally funded state administrative funds, but the Department of Labor just did a major transfer of state administrative funds in anticipation of the shutdown. What would happen with Work training programs? According to the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, workforce training programs are funded through June. Unless there is a protracted shutdown there should be no impact. What would happen with Welfare (TANF)? According to the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, TANF is shared jurisdiction with Ways and Means. Education and the Workforce has jurisdiction over the work requirements portion and Ways and Means has jurisdiction over the funding. According to staff at the House Ways and Means Committee, TANF is authorized through FY 2011, and states have received their quarterly allocations through June 30. As a result, there would be no effect on states receiving their federal funds to run TANF. TANF was extended by the Claims Resolution Act of 2010 (H.R. 4783) for all of FY 2011. How would housing – Section 8, Section 202 (elderly), Section 811 (disabilities), homelessness programs – be affected? According to the House Financial Services Committee, HUD programs would be affected in some way though it is not clear how. Most of the HUD programs are run on schedules other than day‐to‐day Federal involvement – that is, they are administered by local authorities, they are grants made to non‐Federal entities (public or private), or they are contract payments made in advance (payment is made now for services to be rendered, rather than services being performed and sending a bill after). In some way, and depending on the length of a shutdown, those programs would be affected where there will be no actual disbursements under 202 or 811 during the shutdown. However, they will not close overnight. Would the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation be affected? According to the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, participants in terminated plans at PBGC would not be affected by a government shutdown. How would Food stamps be affected? According to the House Committee on Agriculture, without knowing USDA's contingency plans, it’s hard to definitively say what would happen to food stamps. In short, food stamps would not immediately be affected at all. Food Stamps since they are administered at the state level should continue. USDA would have to determine how exactly that happens, but in the 1996 shutdown food stamp delivery was not compromised. During an absence of appropriation every agency would have to limit obligations to those needed to maintain the minimum level of essential activities necessary to protect life and property. It’s believed food stamps would be maintained, but without definitive word from USDA it is speculation. Food stamp recipients should see no lapse in their benefits. What would happen to school lunches? According to the House Committee on Education and the Workforce there should be no impact felt by students. They would continue to get a school lunch. Unless the shutdown dragged on to May there would be no impact by the schools. The program is reimbursed on a quarterly basis and the next reimbursement would be in May. How would student Loans/work study be affected? Would funding be released? Would repayment checks be cashed? According to the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, CRS has limited information on the student aid programs as OMB has directed the agencies not to speak to anyone about shut down plans. Most of the impact is still unclear. However, Pell Grants would likely continue to be made since those are forward funded. Loan funds would likely continue to flow but there is some question about the administrative aspects of the aid disbursement. Much of student aid is run by contractors, who would have likely been paid for the year (although, that is not certain either). It is unclear about whether students would be able to file their FAFSAs since there would not be any administration support for the website, etc. How would Farm Subsidies be affected? According to the House Committee on Agriculture, direct payments go out twice a year, in an advanced direct payment form and a final direct payment. The advanced direct went out months ago and the next one is not supposed to come out again until October, so no direct payments would be affected. Most payments from USDA in the form of "subsidies" come out during certain times of year and would not be affected by a short term shutdown. Conservation payments might be affected during the time of a shutdown but could certainly be sent out after a shutdown ended. USDA has not shared their contingency plans so it is unknown exactly how FSA and NRCS staff would be affected but it is assumed that those offices would close during this time. Would FHA Mortgage loans be affected? According to the House Financial Services Committee, under a temporary government shutdown, FHA will no longer have the commitment authority to endorse/insure new loans. Lenders offering FHA loans may chose to go forward with the loan at closing, but they would have to assume the risk that FHA would normally take on. Some lenders’ internal governance do not allow that, others do; it depends on the individual lender. Therefore, while the FHA endorsement process does not come until a couple of weeks after closing, it is committee staff’s understanding that a temporary shutdown could disrupt closings. How would the National Flood Insurance Program be affected in terms of mortgage closings and payment of claims? According to the House Financial Services Committee, NFIP would continue to pay claims and sell policies in the event of a shutdown. Responses to day‐to‐day questions would be curtailed due to only essential personnel being on the job. Federal Services: Would the mail be delivered? Would post offices be open? According to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, the U.S. Postal Service would continue mail delivery, retail service, and other operations in the event of a government shutdown. The Postal Service is essentially funded through the sale of postage. How would a potential shutdown affect Indian Affairs? How would affect services on Reservations? According to staff at the House Committee on Natural Resources, the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) manages or supervises many of the day‐to‐day affairs of Indian Reservations, particularly the large land‐based tribes west of the Mississippi. They are under the assumption that if money were cut off to the BIA they expect “critical” services relating to law enforcement (i.e., BIA police), Indian Health Services relating to life and limb, resource protection will continue. But other operations, such as reviewing and approving a lease of Indian or tribal land to building a house, to sending a check to an Indian, to providing day care, running some dams and irrigation projects, drilling oil and gas, running Indian school operations would shut down. Non‐essential personnel, such as a receptionist in a health clinic, might be furloughed. They are under the impression that essential personnel (i.e. doctors, etc) must work. Also, under a certain law, many tribes throughout the U.S. effectively bypass the BIA and receive appropriated money directly – they then provide services through tribal structures rather than through the BIA bureaucracy. Unless the tribes have amassed some reserves, their funding would cease. While well over a hundred tribes operate casinos, not all provide large profits. Most of them receive federal dollars. Would National Parks and Museums (Smithsonian) be shut down? According to the House Committee on Natural Resources, parks would be closed to public use. “Critical” personnel would be kept in place for resource protection (and to tell people that arrive that they are closed). The National Park Service has informed the Natural Resources Committee that they do not expect to close access to open‐entrance park land, such as the National Mall and the GW Parkway. According to CRS Report RL34680, while not indicative of future behavior, 368 National Park Service sites (loss of 7 million visitors) reportedly occurred in a previous shutdown. Administration: What is being done to ensure consistency from agency to agency in the designation of essential personnel? (i.e. what if one agency only deems emergency/first responder type personnel essential where another might take a broader liberal view and consider someone who is conducting research?) According to CRS Report RL34680, OMB's Circular No. A‐11 requires executive agencies to submit to OMB "plans for an orderly shutdown in the event of the absence of appropriations" when the plans are either first prepared or later revised. OMB has required the development and maintenance of these shutdown plans since 1980. It is not clear, however, the extent to which agency shutdown plans have been made publicly available or systematically shared with Congress and agency stakeholders for feedback. Scrutiny over agency shutdown plans may provide incentives for agencies to improve the quality of the plans, should it become necessary at some point for agencies to execute the plans, and may inform budget policy debates about the potential impacts of shutdowns. On the other hand, such inquiries may distract agency personnel from other duties and raise sensitive issues regarding what activities and employees should be considered exempt from Antideficiency Act restrictions. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) provides agencies with annual instructions on how to prepare for and operate during a funding gap in Circular No. A‐11. The circular cites the two Civiletti opinions and the 1995 OLC opinion as "background" and "guidance." The circular establishes two "policies" regarding the absence of appropriations: (1) a prohibition on incurring obligations unless the obligations are otherwise authorized by law and (2) permission to incur obligations "as necessary for orderly termination of an agency's functions," but prohibition of any disbursement (i.e., payment). According to the CRS report, the circular also directs agency heads to develop and maintain shutdown plans, which are to be submitted to OMB when initially prepared and also when revised. Agency heads are to use the DOJ opinions and the circular to "decide what activities are essential to operate their agencies during an appropriations hiatus." Among other things, a shutdown plan is required to include an estimate of the time to complete the shutdown, to the nearest half‐day; the number of employees expected to be on‐board (i.e., filled positions) before implementation of the plan; the total number of employees to be "retained" under the plan (i.e., not subject to furlough), broken out into two categories: (1) employees "engaged in military, law enforcement, or direct provision of health care activities" and (2) employees whose "compensation is financed by a resource other than annual appropriations"; and the total number of additional employees who will be retained, in order to protect life and property, who are not "exempt" from furlough because of the two previous criteria, above. Does the President get paid? According to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, under current law, the President continues to receive a paycheck during a federal government shutdown.1 His salary is paid through mandatory spending rather than through the appropriations process What essential agencies would be in operation during the shutdown? The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform anticipates essential government functions spread across agencies and departments will continue. Employees responsible for imminent threats to human life or property will continue to work, as determined by their agency. Relevant guidance includes the OMB Memorandum of November 17, 1981, that counseled: “Beginning [on the first day of the appropriations hiatus], agencies may continue activities otherwise authorized by law, those that protect life and property and those necessary to begin phase down of other activities. Primary examples of activities agency many continue are those which may be found under applicable status to: Provide for the national security, including the conduct of foreign relations essential to the national security or the safety of life and property. Provide for benefit payments and the performance of contract obligations under no‐year or multi‐year or other funds remaining available for those purposes. Conduct essential activities to the extent that they protect life and property, including: Medical care of inpatients and emergency outpatient care; Activities essential to ensure continued public health and safety, including safe use of food and drugs and safe use of hazardous materials; The continuance of air traffic control and other transportation safety functions and the protection of transport property; Border and coastal protection and surveillance; Protection of Federal lands, buildings, waterways, equipment and other property owned by the United States; Care of prisoners and other persons in the custody of the United States; Law enforcement and criminal investigations; Emergency and disaster assistance; Activities essential to the preservation of the essential elements of the money and banking system of the United States, including borrowing and tax collection activities of the Treasury; Activities that ensure production of power and maintenance of the power distribution system; and Activities necessary to maintain protection of research property. Would the FDA be affected – for example food inspection, drug approvals? CRS notes that essential services, such as, “activities essential to ensure continued public health and safety, including safe use of food and drugs and safe use of hazardous materials,” would likely be preserved. This is up to the Agencies, but if in the interest of public health, it is likely that those activities would continue, even if streamlined. According to CRS, they cannot comment specifically on the status of food safety inspections by FDA during a funding gap. The situation may be slightly different from that for meat and poultry (regulated by USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service), for which inspection is required in order for a product to be introduced into commerce. In both cases, however, it is up to the agencies and OMB to determine "excepted" positions. Does the interest on the debt still get paid? According to the House Budget Committee, interest on the debt would still get paid in the event of a government shutdown. Revenues would still be coming into Treasury to cover interest payments and it could still issue debt to make payments. A shutdown would be different than breaching the debt limit. If the debt limit was breached and the government was prevented from legally borrowing money, then interest payments could go unpaid and the government could "default." Law Enforcement and Federal Assistance: Would FBI agents come off the streets? Using past shutdown experience as a guide, the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform anticipates that FBI agent personnel would be exempt from furlough and thus continue to perform their assigned duties. In accordance with OMB Circular No. A‐11, the FBI prepares an annual plan which guides agency activities in the absence of appropriations. This includes a breakdown of employees that would be retained in absence of appropriations because they are “engaged in military, law enforcement, or director provision of health care activities.” Would CIA officers get paid? Using past shutdown experience as a guide, the Committee on House Oversight and Government Reform anticipates that CIA officers would be considered excepted employees and required to work during a shutdown. Consistent with OPM guidance,4 CIA officers who qualify as excepted employees would continue to earn pay, but would not receive pay until the enactment of appropriated funds. Do computer operated government systems shut down? Would local law enforcement still have access to Federal databases? Would the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) still be available so that firearm purchases would not be interrupted? It is the understanding of the House Committee on Homeland Security that state and local law enforcement would continue to have access to federal law enforcement databases for homeland security oriented issues and access to the government systems that support them. DHS has not yet provided the Committee specific information on these issues. Would FEMA and disaster assistance be affected? CRS informed the House Committee on Homeland Security that disaster assistance would likely not be affected because the Disaster Relief Fund is categorized as “no year money.” DHS has not yet provided the Committee specific information on these issues. According to CRS Report RL34680, though not indicative of future shutdown activities, emergency and disaster assistance was an excepted activity in FY 1996. Travel: Would the passport offices still be open to receive applications/process passports since they are a fee for service operation? According to the House Foreign Affairs committee, the State Department has not yet issued any final guidance, and these issues are still under internal discussion. State did say that ‐‐ during the mid‐1990s shutdown ‐‐ processing was cut back to just emergency passport and visa issuance. Normal passport and visa processing was put on hold. According to the committee, Consular Affairs says that while those activities are largely fee‐for‐service funded – not all of the links in the issuing chain are fee‐funded. Also, according to CRS Report RL34680, though not necessarily indicative of future shutdown effects, in the past approximately 20,000‐30,000 applications by foreigners for visas reportedly went unprocessed each day; 200,000 U.S. applications for passports reportedly went unprocessed; and U.S. tourist industries and airlines reportedly sustained millions of dollars in losses. How would this affect our customs and border patrol? Airport screeners? Air Traffic Controllers? What would happen to U.S. Border Patrol agents at the U.S.‐Mexican border? It is the understanding of the House Committee on Homeland Security that CBP agents and TSA screeners would likely be deemed essential personnel and that they would continue to be operational. DHS has not yet provided the Committee specific information on these issues. According to a CRS Report RL34680, though not indicative of future shutdown activities, border and coastal protection and surveillance and the continuance of air traffic control and other transportation safety functions and the protection of transport property was an excepted activity in FY 1996. In FY 1996 cancellation of the hiring of 400 Border Patrol agents occurred during the shutdown according to the report. How would TSA be affected? It is the understanding of the House Committee on Homeland Security that Customs and Border Protection agents and TSA screeners would likely be deemed essential personnel and that they would continue to be operational. DHS has not yet provided the Committee on Homeland Security specific information on these issues. Would there be disruptions in the aviation system? Would air traffic controllers be affected? According to the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Air Traffic Controllers would continue operating as normal. Almost all ATCs are considered essential/exempt. Would Amtrak run? According to the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure staff, Amtrak would continue to operate. Federal Projects and Operations: Would a shut down affect BOEMRE’s permitting process for oil and gas exploration and production in the Gulf? According to the House Committee on Natural Resources it is expected that the Administration would stop all permit processing as “non‐essential.” That is what happened in 1995. The BOEMRE would continue conducting oversight and inspections to ensure safety, but all activity related to permitting of exploration and production would be stopped. Would federal courts shut down? How would pending cases be treated? Would timelines keep running? According to the House Committee on the Judiciary, the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts (AO) has said that the Federal Judiciary would not have to shut down immediately because of the availability of other sources of funds. During previous shutdowns, the Judiciary used fee revenues and “carryover” funds from prior years to support what it considered its essential function of hearing and deciding cases, including payment of salaries and benefits of all judges and court employees, as well as support and administrative. These funds should sustain Judiciary activities for approximately ten working days after an appropriations lapse. Once these balances are exhausted, if a lapse in appropriations still exists, each court will need to limit its operations to mission‐critical activities, but the AO expects most judicial functions should continue during any appropriations lapse. U.S. courts should continue to hear and decide cases without interruption. Thus, all cases including civil and criminal, old and new should be processed and argued, and judgments should be issued and enforced, according to normal schedules and priorities. Judicial activity should be limited to those functions necessary and essential to continue the resolution of cases. Most activities of probation and pretrial services office staff will continue. Supervision of potentially dangerous probationers and parolees will be maintained and needed treatment services should be provided. In non‐emergency situations, probation and pretrial services should continue to handle new cases or maintain existing cases. The jury system will operate as necessary to assist the courts in the performance of Article III duties, though juror payments may be delayed. Attorneys and essential support staff in federal defender offices and court‐appointed counsel will continue to provide defense services, as needed. Interpreters, librarians, circuit executives, and other like personnel will continue to be employed only if necessary. Recently, an AO spokesperson said serious disruptions could occur if a shutdown were prolonged. This could mean that the district and circuit courts couldn’t afford to pay jurors, court reporters, clerks, probation officers, or security personnel. At that point, each court would have to determine which employees are “essential” for furlough purposes. Obviously, litigation conducted by Federal agencies could be delayed, even if the Federal courts remain open, because agency lawyers may not be considered exempt employees. That could delay certain types of litigation against the government, including claims for Social Security disability benefits, veterans’ benefits, claims for medical injuries, and the like. Bankruptcy courts should continue those operations that may be considered part of the exercise of the judicial power of the United States or which preserve life or property. During the FY 1996 shutdowns, work on many bankruptcy cases was suspended. What would happen to NASA and civil servants in the event of a shutdown? According to staff at the House Committee on Science Space and Technology, to date, NASA has not provided Congress with their plans in the event of a shutdown. When the Federal government shut down previously, NASA established the critical support personnel necessary for continued safe operation of space assets, including the International Space Station, Space Shuttle, TDRS communications satellites, deep space, and earth observation satellites. Those employees provided the necessary functions to keep things safe. Historically, the contractor workforce (which is a significant percentage of the total) was not affected because the shutdowns were not lengthy. They continued to come to work without interruption. Would prisons be secure? According to the House committee on the Judiciary, care of prisoners and other persons in the custody of the United States is considered an excepted activity, as are personnel, in the event of a shutdown. Everyone who works at a the Bureau of Prisons is considered a federal law enforcement officer and expected to help with safety, even if their daily focus is on food preparation, health services, or something of the sort. Thus, during the last shutdown all prison employees were treated as essential. However, there will likely be some furloughs at the administrative offices, but employees working on intelligence and monitoring will likely also be considered essential. The same is likely to be true for pre‐trial detainees held in the custody of the U.S. Marshals Service. What would happen with federal contracts? According to CRS Report RL34680, federal employees and contractors cannot be paid, for example, if appropriations have not been enacted. It would still be possible under the Constitution, nevertheless, for the government to make contracts or other obligations if it lacked funds to pay for these commitments. The so‐called Antideficiency Act prevents this, however. The act prohibits federal officials from obligating funds before an appropriations measure has been enacted, except as authorized by law. The act also prohibits acceptance of voluntary services and employment of personal services exceeding what has been authorized by law. Exceptions are made under the act to the latter prohibition for "emergencies involving the safety of human life or the protection of property." Therefore, the Antideficiency Act generally prohibits agencies from continued operation in the absence of appropriations. Failure to comply with the act may result in criminal sanctions, fines, and removal. According to CRS Report RL34680, of $18 billion in Washington, DC, area contracts, $3.7 billion (over 20%) reportedly were affected adversely by the funding lapse; the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) was unable to issue a new standard for lights and lamps that was scheduled to be effective January 1, 1996, possibly resulting in delayed product delivery and lost sales; and employees of federal contractors reportedly were furloughed without pay. Would non‐federal entities be able to continue administering federal grants? ie: research through NIH According to CRS Report RL34680, While not indicative of future shutdowns, in the past new patients were not accepted into clinical research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) clinical center; the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ceased disease surveillance; and hotline calls to NIH concerning diseases were not answered. MISC: Would patents be affected, including the processing of applications and the review of disputes? According to the House Committee on the Judiciary, the Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) is a fee‐funded agency but they have to ask the appropriators for their money back through CJS appropriations (sometimes they receive less than they generate in a given year). PTO has access to carryover funds that would allow it to operate at “full throttle” for maybe six days. Once their reserves dry up, however, they would have to determine who is “essential” out of a workforce of approximately 10,000 employees. This likely means that at some point they would cease processing patent and trademark applications and all other non‐essential activities. Would tax returns get processed and refund checks get issued? According to the House Committee on Ways and Means, with regard to tax filings and refunds, this would be the first time the IRS would be faced with a government shutdown during tax season. IRS Commissioner Shulman testified at a Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee hearing last week and said he was working with OMB to prepare for such an event. He would not elaborate beyond that. According to IRS Legislative Affairs, there would be some minimal level of staff present, and they would expect there would be some staff handling filings and refunds. If the IRS does not provide a refund within 45 days, the government would be required to pay interest. OMB has instructed the IRS not to disclose any further information about the plans for a government shutdown. Would project permits be issued? According to the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, project permits are issued by state DOTs, not FHWA. Those types of projects are funded out of the Surface Authorization extension passed at the beginning of this month and is not tied to the CR. -###-
04.07.2011	The cherry blossoms are in full bloom in D.C. and spring is finally here, but across East Alabama folks are still scratching their heads asking: where are the jobs?The latest unemployment numbers came out recently putting Alabama at 9.3 percent.Although the number is down from 10.2 percent a year ago, we still have too many folks across the state out of work.That’s why every small step Congress takes to help on the jobs front is important.Some of you who own a small business in East Alabama may have received an email from me recently called America’s Job Creators.America’s Job Creators is a communications tool to help small business owners send me and others in Congress examples of “red tape” or other burdensome regulations by the Federal government that keeps them from creating or saving good paying jobs.I’d love to hear from all of our small business owners across the Third District.If you own a small business and are interested in participating, please go to my website at www.mike-rogers.house.gov and click on the “America’s Job Creators” button on the right hand side to fill out the form.With this information, I hope to even better advocate for policies that help for job creation and retention in East Alabama.Of course, getting our fiscal house in order will help strengthen our economy as well. As of writing this week, there was the possibility of a government shutdown or slowdown because the Senate would not pass a bill that makes reasonable cuts to the Federal budget. It is disappointing to see the lack of leadership from President Obama on the budget as well.Also on the jobs front, this week I was making final preparations to introduce a bill, the Modern Security Credentialing Act, to help simplify transportation security regulations.As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security, I drafted this bill not only to help keep our roads and ports safe, but also to streamline redundant background check processes and reduce costs.Above all, I am hopeful this bill will help create and fill jobs. Just ask any trucker – to get fully credentialed to pull all types of freight is a paperwork nightmare. Multiple agencies, lots of fees and far too much wait time make it hard for folks to get trucking jobs.My bill would let the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) streamline the credentialing process while maintaining high security standards. The bill would also standardize background checks for port, airport and truck credentialing, making it easier for applicants to obtain a badge and get a job.At the end of the day, I am hopeful this legislation will cut costs and allow trucking businesses across East Alabama and the country to hire additional personnel.It’s still all about the jobs, and I hope Congress will continue to work to help cut the regulations on small businesses. As always, feel free to contact me on this or any issue at www.mike-rogers.house.gov, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03. -###-
04.06.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the Auburn University Canine Detection Research Institute today for graduating 10 canine explosives detection teams. The canine teams are part of a pilot program for the U.S. Transportation Security Administration (TSA), over which Rogers has Congressional oversight.The dogs are trained in “vapor wake detection,” a state-of-the-art technology developed by Auburn. Comprised of a canine and a human handler, usually a law enforcement official, vapor wake dogs can track down explosives carried on or by a person by merely smelling the “wake” of air created by a person. This provides a noninvasive way of deterring and disrupting possible terrorist attacks using explosive devices. The dogs start at 12 months old after being specially bred and selected for the program and go through months of rigorous training with their handlers.“Auburn University should be applauded for their work and training of these dogs and the level of safety and security they bring to our transportation systems. These canines learn to use their keen sense of smell to perform searches without the culprit even knowing,” Rogers said. “I am so proud of the work Auburn University and the folks at McClellan are doing to help keep our country safer through use of this cost effective technology.”"This is an important first step in developing this promising explosives detection technique at airports," said TSA Administrator John Pistole. "We continually look to evolve our techniques in all of our layers of security to stay ahead of our adversaries."Auburn University is one of the premiere canine training facilities in the nation and has provided canine teams and training to Amtrak Police, U.S. Capitol Police and United States Marine Corps, among others. This graduating class is the first of the canine teams for the TSA.Rogers serves as Chairman of the Homeland Subcommittee on Transportation Security with jurisdiction over TSA. -###-
04.05.2011	In Case You Missed It: Rogers on CBS Radio discussing Libya on March 28, 2011
04.01.2011	Led by U.S. Representatives Martha Roby and Terri A. Sewell, Alabama’s Congressional delegation today wrote U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan to highlight ongoing efforts to support Alabama’s education system and to request a meeting between the secretary and the delegation.The bipartisan letter comes after a delegation meeting with Governor Robert Bentley and the Alabama State Board of Education last week in Montgomery. At the meeting, board members stressed the importance of speaking to the Secretary about the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, federal special education rules, and funding for workforce training programs.“I strongly believe that our local teachers and school administrators are best suited to make decisions about educating our children, and it was a pleasure to meet with the Board of Education to discuss the challenges that we face,” Roby, a member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, said. “I am pleased that the delegation is working to communicate their concerns to those in the federal government, and to facilitate a direct meeting between Alabama leaders and government officials.”“As a product of public schools and the daughter of two educators, I know firsthand the difference that a strong education can make,” said Rep. Sewell. “It can make all the difference in achieving the American Dream, because getting a good education can overcome differences in background, culture, and privilege. Strengthening our education system will require a bi-partisan effort, and I look forward to working with the Alabama State Board of Education, my colleagues in the House and Senate and the U.S. Department of Education to identify innovative solutions to allow our children to compete locally and globally.”In addition to Roby and Sewell, signatories to the letter include Reps. Spencer Bachus, Jo Bonner, Mo Brooks, Robert Aderholt, and Mike Rogers.Below is a copy of the letter sent to Secretary Duncan today.March 31, 2011The Honorable Arne DuncanSecretaryU.S. Department of Education400 Maryland Avenue, SWWashington, D.C. 20202Dear Secretary Duncan:On Thursday, March 24, members of the Alabama Congressional delegation participated in a special meeting with Governor Robert Bentley and the State Board of Education to discuss the future of the state’s education system and the impact of federal education policies on Alabama’s schools. As you know, Congress and the Administration have begun to discuss how best to reform our education system. We share the common goal of working toward a system that prepares our students to be competitive locally and globally. Our delegation would like to meet with you to discuss our shared vision and how to strengthen education in America.Specifically, the delegation would like to discuss issues including the reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, federal special education regulations, Career and Technical Education Maintenance of Effort Requirements, and Race to the Top Funding.Additionally, we request your immediate attention to the pending Alabama Department of Education waiver request concerning the SFY 2010 State’s Maintenance of Effort (MOE) requirement for Part B of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). Alabama State Superintendant Joseph Morton submitted this request to Dr. Ruth Ryder, U.S. Department of Education, OSERS, on November 12, 2010. According to officials from the State Board of Education, if the waiver is denied, Alabama will lose federal funding for workforce training programs. Given the current economic challenges that our state and nation face, the potential loss of such funding would be detrimental.Thank you for your consideration and for your service on behalf of America’s schools. It is our hope to be able to schedule a meeting at the earliest date of mutual convenience.# # #
03.29.2011	Click on the photo to access the PDF document for more information on this year's Third Congressional District Art Contest.
03.10.2011	The turmoil in the Middle East is affecting us here in East Alabama. We see coverage on the news, talk about the unrest in the coffee shop, but we see and feel it at gas pump.According to AAA as of writing, gasoline prices are up 76 cents from a year ago and 41 cents from a month ago.I have said this for years: we as a nation cannot continue to live with these unstable prices to fill up our vehicles and power our economy. The time to lessen our dependence on other countries like those in the Middle East for our energy sources is now.During these tough economic times, folks across East Alabama are already tightening their belts and paying more at the gas station is something folks just cannot afford.It’s an issue of national security. In 2008, I introduced the FREE Act (Furthering Renewable Energy Exploration).Under this legislation the ban on energy exploration in the Arctic National Wildlife Reserve (ANWR) would be lifted, and all federal royalties and taxes collected from the drilling would be directed into a new renewable fuels research and development fund.This trust fund would be used only for research and development of alternative energy to help our country become energy independent.For example, East Alabama is home to many outstanding schools and universities.We could use the talented researchers at great schools like Auburn University or Tuskegee University and those like them across the country to help develop the next generation of battery technology, commercially viable synthetic gasoline or a more fuel-efficient ethanol with the money we set aside in the trust.The funding would come out of the trust fund made up of the federal share of royalties as a result of exploration.It’s all common sense and home grown right here in the U.S.A. That means jobs, jobs, jobs.This year, I again plan to reintroduce this bill to help advance this debate. The United States must act now on becoming energy independent.As always, feel free to contact me on this or any issue at http://mike-rogers.house.gov/, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03. -###-
03.10.2011	The turmoil in the Middle East is affecting us here in East Alabama. We see coverage on the news, talk about the unrest in the coffee shop, but we see and feel it at gas pump. According to AAA as of writing, gasoline prices are up 76 cents from a year ago and 41 cents from a month ago. I have said this for years: we as a nation cannot continue to live with these unstable prices to fill up our vehicles and power our economy. The time to lessen our dependence on other countries like those in the Middle East for our energy sources is now. During these tough economic times, folks across East Alabama are already tightening their belts and paying more at the gas station is something folks just cannot afford. It’s an issue of national security. In 2008, I introduced the FREE Act (Furthering Renewable Energy Exploration). Under this legislation the ban on energy exploration in the Arctic National Wildlife Reserve (ANWR) would be lifted, and all federal royalties and taxes collected from the drilling would be directed into a new renewable fuels research and development fund. This trust fund would be used only for research and development of alternative energy to help our country become energy independent. For example, East Alabama is home to many outstanding schools and universities. We could use the talented researchers at great schools like Auburn University or Tuskegee University and those like them across the country to help develop the next generation of battery technology, commercially viable synthetic gasoline or a more fuel-efficient ethanol with the money we set aside in the trust. The funding would come out of the trust fund made up of the federal share of royalties as a result of exploration. It’s all common sense and home grown right here in the U.S.A. That means jobs, jobs, jobs.This year, I again plan to reintroduce this bill to help advance this debate. The United States must act now on becoming energy independent. As always, feel free to contact me on this or any issue at http://mike-rogers.house.gov/, become a fan on Facebook at Congressman Mike D. Rogers, follow me on Twitter at RepMikeRogersAL and subscribe to my YouTube page at MikeRogersAL03.
02.28.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Little Texas Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving a $20,523 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Macon County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Macon County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Little Texas Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2010 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Chairman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added.-###-
02.17.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the East Alabama Water Sewer and Fire Protection today for receiving a $48,117 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Chambers County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Chambers County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Alabama Water Sewer and Fire Protection for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2010 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Chairman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added.-###-
02.15.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers launched a new Congressional website this week, saying he hoped Third District constituents find the updated site easier to navigate and more informative.To check out the new website, go to http://mike-rogers.house.gov.“With new social media sites and so much information available on the internet, I hope this new website will be a place folks will come for news, constituent services and information,” Rogers said. “The site was created to be more user-friendly, so I want folks to let me, or a member of my staff know, how we can further improve it.”Rogers said the website has several new features to allow constituents to sign up for his eNewsletter and eAlerts, Tele-town Halls and “Congress on Your Corner” events in addition to linking to social network sites and the House Floor schedule. “I want to be as accessible as I can to the folks of East Alabama. I hope this new website will put my office at your fingertips,” Rogers added.The new site launched on February 15th. -###-
02.10.2011	February marks a month we celebrate some of our nation’s greatest Americans. In many cases, these diverse individuals have helped shape our country in to what it is today.This February marks Black History Month, President’s Day and February 6th would’ve been President Ronald Reagan’s 100th birthday.Across East Alabama, we’re home to great African American leaders and civil rights pioneers.Tuskegee of course is home to the well-known Tuskegee Airmen who served our nation with great honor and dignity, despite the challenges they faced back home. It’s also home to Tuskegee University, founded by the great educator and leader Booker T. Washington and being led by the newly inaugurated sixth president, Dr. Gilbert Rochon.Montgomery is home to Rosa Parks whose silent protest on the bus that day was heard around the world.Dexter Avenue King Memorial Baptist Church, also in Montgomery, is where visionary Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. preached from the pulpit.As this month progresses, we should reflect on our heritage and take pride in it. We should also remember all of the 44 Presidents of the United States who have led our nation from George Washington, the first president, to Barack Obama, the first African American president. And in particular this year, Ronald Reagan.In these trying times, I believe there’s a lot our nation can learn from the issues he championed. President Reagan strongly believed individual liberty, American ingenuity, lower taxes and small government held the keys to a growing economy that would help all those that tried to reach the American Dream.His faith always guided him, and as he faced the final battle of his extraordinary life, he never lost his optimism for the future and his love for this great land. I still believe his words ring true when he wrote, “I know that for America there will always be a bright dawn ahead.”Across East Alabama and this country, we are fortunate to have a month to highlight those individuals who have helped make the U.S. what it is today.Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. said in his famous speech he “had a dream.”Well, I think that dream is still alive and well today. Those words should continue to inspire us and help us this month as we honor these great Americans.
02.10.2011	February marks a month we celebrate some of our nation’s greatest Americans. In many cases, these diverse individuals have helped shape our country in to what it is today.This February marks Black History Month, President’s Day and February 6th would’ve been President Ronald Reagan’s 100th birthday.Across East Alabama, we’re home to great African American leaders and civil rights pioneers.Tuskegee of course is home to the well-known Tuskegee Airmen who served our nation with great honor and dignity, despite the challenges they faced back home. It’s also home to Tuskegee University, founded by the great educator and leader Booker T. Washington and being led by the newly inaugurated sixth president, Dr. Gilbert Rochon.Montgomery is home to Rosa Parks whose silent protest on the bus that day was heard around the world.Dexter Avenue King Memorial Baptist Church, also in Montgomery, is where visionary Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. preached from the pulpit.As this month progresses, we should reflect on our heritage and take pride in it. We should also remember all of the 44 Presidents of the United States who have led our nation from George Washington, the first president, to Barack Obama, the first African American president. And in particular this year, Ronald Reagan.In these trying times, I believe there’s a lot our nation can learn from the issues he championed. President Reagan strongly believed individual liberty, American ingenuity, lower taxes and small government held the keys to a growing economy that would help all those that tried to reach the American Dream.His faith always guided him, and as he faced the final battle of his extraordinary life, he never lost his optimism for the future and his love for this great land. I still believe his words ring true when he wrote, “I know that for America there will always be a bright dawn ahead.” Across East Alabama and this country, we are fortunate to have a month to highlight those individuals who have helped make the U.S. what it is today.Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. said in his famous speech he “had a dream.” Well, I think that dream is still alive and well today. Those words should continue to inspire us and help us this month as we honor these great Americans.
02.09.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Sycamore Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving a $231,750 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Talladega County fire department purchase a new firefighting vehicle.“Talladega County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Sycamore Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2010 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Chairman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
02.09.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Auslin Chapel Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving an $112,100 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Randolph County fire department purchase a new firefighting vehicle.“Randolph County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Auslin Chapel Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2010 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Chairman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
02.04.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Wedowee Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving grants from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Randolph County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment and a vehicle.“Randolph County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of Wedowee Volunteer Fire Department for receiving these grants, and hope they will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said Wedowee Volunteer Fire Department should receive a $55,163 grant for equipment and a $235,577 grant for a new vehicle.Rogers said the grants should be awarded under the 2010 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Chairman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
02.04.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Turkey Heaven Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving a $25,793 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Cleburne County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Cleburne County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Turkey Heaven Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2010 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Chairman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
02.04.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Chehaw Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving a $30,990 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Macon County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Macon County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Chehaw Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2010 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Chairman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
02.01.2011	- Congressman Mike Rogers announced today his bill, H.R. 3978, the First Responder Anti-Terrorism Training Resources Act, was signed into law this week by President Obama. This legislation provides the Center for Domestic Preparedness (CDP) in Anniston, Alabama, authority to accept donations of items such as railcars, subway cars, emergency response equipment and other property and services training purposes.The new law puts the CDP on par with other federal training sites across the nation that also may accept donated equipment, property and services from sources such as state and local governments, the private sector and the National Guard. Rogers originally introduced this bill in November 2009 and with bipartisan support it passed the House in December 2009. The Senate passed it with an amendment unrelated to the CDP in August 2010. The House promptly passed the amended bill and sent it to the White House. “The CDP, unique in its mission, will benefit greatly from this law and it is a win-win for first responders, U.S. taxpayers, and the dedicated employees of the CDP,” Rogers said. H.R. 3978 is the first Republican bill taken up by the Committee on Homeland Security to start at committee level, pass both chambers and be signed in to law during the 111th Congress. “I am pleased Congress saw the importance of this bill and appreciate the support on both sides of the aisle for this important first responder training facility in Calhoun County,” Rogers added. The CDP is the nation’s premier all-hazards training center, and the only U.S. site where first responders train using actual toxic live agents, such as GB (sarin gas) and VX. Last year, the CDP celebrated its 500,000th graduate. Rogers serves as Ranking Member on a Homeland Security subcommittee as well as a member of the House Armed Services and House Agriculture Committees. - ### -
01.27.2011	It’s early in 2011, but much has happened in Washington, from the nation beginning the healing process after the tragedy in Tuscon to the new Republican Majority in the House of Representatives finding its footing working with the Democratic-controlled Senate and White House.After the Tuscon shootings, the victims and their families remain in our prayers. All of us are cautiously optimistic as Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (D-AZ) is making great strides to recovery. In Washington, D.C. the House, on January 19th, voted to repeal Obamacare with my support. The House also has cut its own budget by five percent, eliminated taxpayer funding of presidential campaigns and conventions and will continue to begin to make meaningful cuts to help tame our country’s skyrocketing debt.This is the same debt that threatens our economy. It certainly threatens job creation. President Obama slowly has begun to acknowledge the problem, but to me still hasn’t recommended enough common sense solutions to show he is serious about bringing down the debt.On January 25th, President Obama gave his State of the Union address. To his credit, the President talked about freezing our nation’s domestic spending at 2010 levels for five years. While I agree that a spending freeze is a good start, freezing spending at its current high level isn’t the answer. Instead he should consider H.Res. 38 that the House passed on January 25th, which would cut non-security spending to 2008 levels. Many folks across East Alabama feel like I do that our country stands at a crossroads. One road leads to more spending, never-ending debt and economic stagnation. The other road is looking squarely at our debt challenges, and studying closely every Federal agency and program to decide where cuts can be made.At this time, I just don’t think we can afford to spend anymore money we don’t have on new initiatives until we have our spending problems under control.The spending spree over the last two years did not result in more good paying jobs for Americans – in fact, the unemployment rate jumped to 10 percent for nearly 20 consecutive months, never improving with the failed stimulus bill. To be fair, I certainly acknowledge spending has been a bipartisan problem through the years.This debt will be more than just a heavy burden we will place on the backs of our children and grandchildren. We must take care of business now.In November, the American people’s voices were heard loudly in Washington. It is clear the direction our country was headed was not the path the voters wanted. It’s time for a new direction – a focus on jobs, jobs, jobs and a tireless effort to get our Nation’s finances and economic house back in order.President Obama said we must “win the future” and I agree – now it’s up to Congress and the President to find common ground. -###-
01.19.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today after the bill to repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act passed the House of Representatives.“In November, the American people spoke loud and clear that they disapproved of the direction our country was heading. In the midst of this bad economy, I think it is absolutely necessary to repeal this massive government program that will adversely impact small businesses and result in the loss of good-paying jobs. Having bureaucrats become the middleman between doctors and patients is not common sense policy, and the massive government intervention into our health care system does not help create good paying jobs.“I believe we need true, meaningful reforms to our health care system, but a “one-size-fits-all” program isn’t good enough for America. I promised the people of East Alabama I would support the repeal of this bill, and today I was able to make good on that promise,” Rogers said. “I hope the Senate will not stand in the way of efforts to fully repeal this jobs-crushing law.”- ### -
01.15.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today in advance of Monday’s national day of remembrance recognizing the life and legacy of the late Civil Rights leader, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.“As we prepare to once again celebrate and remember the life of one of the founders of the Civil Rights movement, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., we should all continue to remember the many contributions he made to our society and the movement he began that would forever change America.“Dr. King worked to bring together people of different races, religions and backgrounds and share human equality across the country,” Rogers said. “He was a man of peace, and a leader whose legacy will forever be an inspiration for all Americans.”- ### -
01.13.2011	There’s a new Congress in town. But just as new members were finding their way around the Capitol, legislation was being prepared to debate, and anticipation was building for a challenging two years, it all came to an abrupt and shocking halt over the weekend when Representative Gabrielle “Gabby” Giffords (D-AZ) was mercilessly shot outside a “Congress on Your Corner” event in Tuscon, Arizona, on Saturday, January 6th.So far, out of the group gathered to participate in the event, 13 were injured, six people, including a Federal judge, a nine year old girl and a Congressional staffer, were killed while a strong wife and leader tragically lies in a hospital bed with a gunshot wound and her husband by her side.The young man being held responsible for the shootings has not only taken innocent lives, but has also called into question the access folks across the country have to their elected officials.As many of you are aware in East Alabama, I hold “Congress on Your Corner” events all across the Third Congressional District. These events are well publicized, and are held so folks have an opportunity to talk to me one-on-one about whatever questions or concerns they may have.In the wake of the Tuscon tragedy, I plan to continue a business as usual approach. I believe it is your right to talk with me one-on-one, and I want to provide the best service I can for each of you. My public events will continue as usual.It seems increasingly clear the suspect acted alone, and was not part of any larger effort against the public. He was and is mentally ill. It is an unspeakable tragedy so many innocent lives were lost, in a setting where Americans were simply trying to have their voice heard as guaranteed under the Constitution.These senseless acts of violence have no place in our society of free speech. Our nation has extraordinary challenges ahead, and we must as citizens discuss and debate those challenges respectfully with one another.I hope each of us across East Alabama will keep Representative Giffords and her family as well as the other victims and their families in your prayers. -###-
01.12.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Jackson’s Gap Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving a $221,517 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Tallapoosa County fire department purchase a new firefighting vehicle.“Tallapoosa County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Jackson’s Gap Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2010 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Chairman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
01.06.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Shinbone Valley Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving a $16,008 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Clay County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Clay County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Shinbone Valley Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2010 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Chairman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
01.06.2011	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Mt. Olive Sunderland Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving a $53,603 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Russell County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Russell County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Mt. Olive Sunderland Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2010 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Chairman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
01.05.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Rogers was sworn in for the 112th Congress which will begin his fifth term as a U.S. Congressman.“I am honored to once again have the opportunity to represent the people of the Third Congressional District and would like to congratulate newly-elected Speaker Boehner,” Rogers said.The new Rules of the House were passed today which Rogers said he hoped would lead to a more open process as legislation is introduced and passed. Tomorrow, the United States Constitution will be read on the House Floor and Congress will vote to cut its budget to 2008 levels, saving taxpayers $35 million. Also next week, Congress will begin voting on repealing the health care reform law passed by the Democratic-led Congress last year.“East Alabama voters had their say in November, and I heard their message loud and clear. It’s time for Congress to stop the out-of-control spending and focus on meaningful legislation to put folks back in good-paying jobs,” Rogers added.Rogers serves as Chairman of the Homeland Security Transportation Security Subcommittee. He is also a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. -###-
10.02.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers announced today his bill, H.R. 3978, the First Responder Anti-Terrorism Training Resources Act, was signed into law this week by President Obama. This legislation provides the Center for Domestic Preparedness (CDP) in Anniston, Alabama, authority to accept donations of items such as railcars, subway cars, emergency response equipment and other property and services training purposes.The new law puts the CDP on par with other federal training sites across the nation that also may accept donated equipment, property and services from sources such as state and local governments, the private sector and the National Guard.Rogers originally introduced this bill in November 2009 and with bipartisan support it passed the House in December 2009. The Senate passed it with an amendment unrelated to the CDP in August 2010. The House promptly passed the amended bill and sent it to the White House.“The CDP, unique in its mission, will benefit greatly from this law and it is a win-win for first responders, U.S. taxpayers, and the dedicated employees of the CDP,” Rogers said.H.R. 3978 is the first Republican bill taken up by the Committee on Homeland Security to start at committee level, pass both chambers and be signed in to law during the 111th Congress.“I am pleased Congress saw the importance of this bill and appreciate the support on both sides of the aisle for this important first responder training facility in Calhoun County,” Rogers added.The CDP is the nation’s premier all-hazards training center, and the only U.S. site where first responders train using actual toxic live agents, such as GB (sarin gas) and VX. Last year, the CDP celebrated its 500,000th graduate.Rogers serves as Ranking Member on a Homeland Security subcommittee as well as a member of the House Armed Services and House Agriculture Committees. - ### -
05.21.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Micaville Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving a $12,132 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Cleburne County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Cleburne County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Micaville Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
05.21.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Hatchechubbee Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving a $40,850 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Russell County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Russell County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Hatchechubbee Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
05.14.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Chehaw Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving a $76,475 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Macon County fire department purchase a new firefighting vehicle.“Macon County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Chehaw Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
05.14.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Childersburg Fire and Rescue Department today for receiving a $94,392 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Talladega County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Talladega County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Childersburg Fire and Rescue Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
05.12.2010	Artistic high school students from the Third District were honored last weekend in Sylacauga, as Congressman Mike Rogers announced the winners of the 29th annual Third District Congressional Art Competition.Tevin Drake, a senior at Opelika High School, took First Place for his graphite creation titled “Eye Phone.” This is Drake’s fourth consecutive year winning the art contest. Drake came in first place this year out of 39 contestants.Drake’s “Eye Phone” will be displayed for one year in the walkway leading to the U.S. Capitol.All artwork submitted for the contest was on view at the Comer Museum in Sylacauga. - ### -
05.06.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Alexander City Fire Department today for receiving a $166,250 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Tallapoosa County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Tallapoosa County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Alexander City Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
05.06.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Cottonton Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving an $18,050 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Russell County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Russell County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Cottonton Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
04.22.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers (AL) and Congresswoman Mary Jo Kilroy (OH-15) introduced a bill today to keep the position of Chief Veterinary Officer (CVO) in place at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). This legislation was written after DHS made an administrative decision, which Rogers and Kilroy oppose, to eliminate the position and divide its core responsibilities among staff.Rogers and Kilroy said cutting the CVO undermines the importance of DHS’ involvement in agro-terrorism, food security and veterinary responsibilities.Congressman Rogers said, “Eliminating this critical position within DHS would remove a key resource in the Department’s preparedness and response responsibilities. Whether it is an act of terrorism or nature, the CVO plays a critical role in our efforts to increase our security in food and animal matters.”Congresswoman Kilroy said “Keeping our families safe in Ohio and throughout the nation is one of my highest priorities. I’m pleased to join my colleagues in support of our national security infrastructure with this bill.”Rogers said cutting the CVO position – which advises the Secretary in case of food safety or animal emergencies – when DHS is spending $1 billion to transition the Plum Island Animal Disease Center to a National Bio and Agro Defense Facility (NBAF), doesn’t add up. The CVO, he says, not only helps bring the expertise and knowledge of the veterinary community to the decision-making process at DHS, but also coordinates with other Federal agencies and state and local officials. Rogers also said the concerns of the agricultural sector and rural America should be considered.Congressman Peter King (NY), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security said, “Given that agriculture is one of the Nation’s critical infrastructure sectors, the Chief Veterinary Officer plays a key role in securing the homeland from threats to our food supply and to our economy. Much like the Chief Medical Officer, this position should have the authority of title and statutory backing. I am pleased to join Rep. Rogers and Kilroy in co-sponsoring this important legislation.”Representatives Bennie Thompson (MS), Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, Mike McCaul (TX), Yvette Clarke (NY), and Christopher Carney (PA) all signed onto the bill as original cosponsors. -###-
04.15.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Shinbone Valley Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving a $47,975 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Clay County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Clay County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Shinbone Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
04.15.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Ray Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving a $99,513 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Tallapoosa County fire department purchase a new firefighting vehicle.“Tallapoosa County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Ray Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
04.13.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Hollis Fire and Rescue today for receiving a $190,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Cleburne County fire department purchase a new firefighting vehicle.“Cleburne County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Hollis Fire and Rescue for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.” Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
04.13.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Centre Fire Department today for receiving a $79,650 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Cherokee County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Cherokee County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Centre Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
04.13.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the East Alabama Water, Sewer and Fire Protection today for receiving a $37,630 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Chambers County fire department purchase fire prevention and safety materials.“Chambers County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate these folks for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Fire Protections and Safety Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the Fire Prevention and Safety Grants (FP&S) are part of Assistance Prevention and Safety Grants (FP&S) are part of the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) and are under the purview of the Grant Programs Directorate in the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). FP&S Grants support projects that enhance the safety of the public and firefighters from fire and related hazards. The primary goal is to target high-risk populations and reduce injury and prevent death.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
03.25.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of Franklin Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving a $54,782 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Macon County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Macon County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Franklin Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
03.24.2010	The day it was signed into law, Congressman Mike Rogers announced he has cosponsored H.R. 4903, a bill which would repeal the Democrats’ healthcare bill. This legislation would repeal the recently passed health care reform legislation, H.R. 3590, which many Americans have protested against and the entire Alabama Delegation opposed.Rogers said Congresswoman Michelle Bachmann of Minnesota introduced the repeal bill yesterday, which as of writing had 12 cosponsors. Rogers said he remains deeply disappointed the Democratic Leadership did not listen to the American people and instead chose to force their massive healthcare bill through Congress.“The majority of folks in East Alabama let me know they didn’t want this health care bill to pass. While the bill has now become law, it is not too late to repeal and replace the worst parts of this legislation, which will vastly increase the Federal government’s role in our lives at a time when our economy is in a severe recession,” Rogers said.“During these tough economic times when folks are struggling to stay afloat and find or keep a job, I agree reform was needed. But this is not reform – it is a massive government intervention into one-sixth of our economy.“Our seniors are worried about this legislation. Our families are concerned they’ll see their healthcare rationed or the quality fall. That’s why we should try to repeal this bill and start over from scratch, while incorporating ideas all Americans embrace,” Rogers added.Rogers said he supports alternative legislation which would help offer coverage for people with pre-existing conditions, allow association health plans, allowing insurance to be sold across state lines, increasing the age in which children can be covered by their parent’s plan, and tort reform to help lower the cost of frivolous lawsuits. Rogers said these common sense proposals could form the basis of a bipartisan approach that could lead to expanded coverage, lower costs, and better quality.- ### -
03.24.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of Sylacauga Fire Department today for receiving a $104,885 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Talladega County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Talladega County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Sylacauga Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
03.23.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers made a strong stand tonight in opposition to the Democratic leadership’s plan for a massive government takeover of the American healthcare system by voting no on both healthcare bills.Rogers said Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s one–two punch to have the Federal government highly regulate healthcare, which equates to one-sixth of our economy in America, squeaked through Congress on solely partisan votes. First the House passed H.R. 3590, the Senate passed version of the healthcare bill. H.R. 3590 is expected to be immediately sent to the President to be signed into law. Then the House passed H.R. 4872, a package of changes to the Senate bill that Speaker Pelosi dictated behind closed doors.Rogers said he was deeply disappointed the Democratic Leadership chose to force their massive healthcare bill through Congress that increasing numbers of Americans, and the vast majority of East Alabamians, have consistently opposed.“It is unconscionable to me that the Democratic Leadership is turning its back on the will of the American people and letting their voices fall on deaf ears. This is their agenda, not the agenda of the American people. The vast majority of my constituents do not want this bill to become law.I strongly opposed it for many reasons, including the fact that it cuts Medicare, raises billions in new taxes, it thrusts the Federal government squarely into the forefront of doctor–patient decisions, and it is an affront to our pro-life values,” Rogers said.“Most folks back home in East Alabama are strongly opposed to this bill and the question the true motives behind it. Congress could have taken more prudent, incremental steps toward reform instead of this misguided and massive overhaul. I am deeply disappointed in the Democratic Leadership and feel this step toward bigger government and higher taxes is a troubling sign for our country,” Rogers added.Rogers said every Alabama Member of Congress – Democratic and Republican – voted against the two bills that passed tonight. - ### -
03.10.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Woodland Volunteer Fire Department and East Randolph County Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving grants from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Randolph County fire departments purchase new firefighting safety and operations equipment.“Randolph County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of these fire departments for receiving these grants, and hope they will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said Woodland Volunteer Fire Department should receive a $49,367 grant and East Randolph County Volunteer Fire Department should receive a $79,211 grant each to purchase new firefighting equipment.These grants should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
03.10.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Coleta Valley Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving a $20,088 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Talladega County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Talladega County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Coleta Valley Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
03.10.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Barfield Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving a $39,900 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Clay County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Clay County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Barfield Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
03.04.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Hi-Pine Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving a $66,462 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Clay County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Clay County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Hi-Pine Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
03.04.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Auslin Chapel Volunteer Fire Department and Morrison Crossroads Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving grants from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Randolph County fire departments purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Randolph County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of these fire departments for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said Auslin Chapel Volunteer Fire Department should receive a $23,750 grant and Morrison Crossroads Volunteer Fire Department should receive a $26,553 grant both to purchase new firefighting equipment.Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
03.04.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Mt. Olive Sunderland Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving an $8,550 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Russell County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Russell County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Mt. Olive Sunderland Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
03.04.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Lanier Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving a $40,280 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Talladega County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Talladega County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Lanier Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
03.04.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Quad Cities Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving an $18,145 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Calhoun County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Calhoun County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Quad Cities Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
02.23.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers recently held an open public meeting at Town Hall in Cedar Bluff, Alabama, to give local residents the opportunity to discuss face to face concerns on their minds.The top concerns of the day were spread across many different areas. Within the hour of discussion, local citizens touched upon issues like the water wars, Government spending, unemployment and healthcare.The ongoing battle for Alabama’s fair share of water from our rivers is always a concern for us all. The possibility of another drought, and resulting water shortages, is an important matter and was passionately discussed.“We are continuing to search for real solutions on this issue, but make no mistake – Alabama must continue to receive its fair share and no less,” Rogers said.When the the conversation turned to government spending and the overall economy, Rogers agreed Congress was spending far too much with too few results, and instead needs to focus on keeping taxes low and real job creation initiatives.Rogers said about 40 people attended the meeting. On the subject of healthcare reform, reiterated his opposition to current healthcare proposals and any legislation including a “public option.”Rogers thanked everyone who came out to express their concerns, and urged them to encourage others to do the same the next time he is in the area. - ### -
02.23.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Ridge Grove Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving a $ 219,522 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Chambers County fire department purchase a new firefighting vehicle.“Chambers County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Ridge Grove Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
02.12.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the West Chambers Fire Department today for receiving an $82,698 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Chambers County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Chambers County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the West Chambers Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
02.12.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Heflin Fire Department today for receiving a $26,282 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Cleburne County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Cleburne County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Heflin Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
02.03.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Franklin Volunteer Fire Department and Little Texas Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving grants from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Macon County fire departments purchase new firefighting vehicles.“Macon County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of these fire departments for receiving these grants, and hope they will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said both Franklin Volunteer Fire Department and Little Texas Volunteer Fire Department should receive a $190,000 grant each to purchase a new firefighting vehicle.These grants should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
02.03.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Delta Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving an $8,356 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Clay County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Clay County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Delta Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
02.03.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Fosters Crossroads Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving a $15,770 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Randolph County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Randolph County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Fosters Crossroads Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
02.03.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Alexandria Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving a $59,850 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Calhoun County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Calhoun County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Alexandria Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
01.27.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Crawford Volunteer Fire Department, Inc. today for receiving a $34,577 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Russell County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Russell County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Crawford Volunteer Fire Department, Inc. for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
01.27.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers recently toured several industries in Talladega, Alabama, to give local employers and employees the opportunity to discuss face to face concerns on their minds.Rogers said like those he talked with in Talladega, most folks across East Alabama have been struggling in this economy and were worried Congress is not passing legislation to truly help create or save good paying jobs. Instead, he said, too many East Alabamians are seeing legislation rushed through without sufficient debate, like the current health care reform bill and the Cap and Trade bill, both of which could ultimately hurt small businesses and hard working families during these tough economic times.“Before coming to Congress, I owned a small business and I see the negative implications some of these bills could have on our small businesses across East Alabama,” Rogers said.Rogers said he will continue to oppose the current health care bill and will not support any plan with a “public option”. As the healthcare reform debate enters its final stages Rogers urged folks to continue to make known their thoughts and concerns.“It is indefensible to me that Congress has lost focus on what matters most to the American people – JOBS,” Rogers added.Rogers said he hopes as Congress starts up the Second Session that they will put jobs at the top of their priority list. - ### -
01.27.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Kellyton Volunteer Fire and Rescue and Goodwater Fire and Ambulance today for receiving grants from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Coosa County fire departments purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment and vehicles.“Coosa County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of these fire departments for receiving these grants, and hope they will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said Kellyton Volunteer Fire and Rescue should receive a $190,000 grant to purchase a new firefighting vehicle and Goodwater Fire and Ambulance should receive a $91,105 grant to purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.These grants should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
01.27.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the East Alabama Water, Sewer and Fire Protection today for receiving a $66,348 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Chambers County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Chambers County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the East Alabama Water, Sewer and Fire Protection for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
01.19.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers recently held an open public meeting at Bridges Travel Center in Cusseta, Alabama, to give local residents the opportunity to discuss face to face concerns on their minds.The current stalled state of our economy continues to be a hot button issue on most folks’ minds with the Federal government spending unbelievable amounts of money on programs that most don’t believe are helping create or save good paying jobs.“Congress’ out-of-control spending is driving up astronomical amounts of debt,” Rogers said. Rogers opposed H.R. 1, the Stimulus bill, which costs over $1 trillion with interest and H. Con. Res 85, the Democratic $3.5 trillion tax and spend budget.“It seems Congress would be coming up with more common sense, affordable solutions to help ease the pain of folks across the country,” Rogers added.Another concern for most folks is the talk of moving the detainees at Guantanamo Bay to a prison in Illinois at almost $500 million for the move and upkeep of the facility.“It is indefensible that Congress would think of moving these terrorists to our soil especially for a price tag that high when everyone is struggling financially,” Rogers said.Rogers said he will continue to oppose the current health care bill and will not support any plan with a “public option”. As the healthcare reform debate enters its final stages Rogers urged folks to continue to make known their thoughts and concerns.Rogers held these type meetings across the Third Congressional District during January when Congress was not in session.- ### -
01.14.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers recently met with members of the Tuskegee Airmen, Inc. in Washington, D.C. to discuss the National Historic Site that would help honor the 15,000 heroes who deserve our greatest respect.Tuskegee Airman Colonel Charles E. McGee (Ret.) was among the attendees at the meeting.Rogers said he would continue to do all he could to help support the completion of the national Memorial, which when complete is expected to draw thousands of visitors to Macon County each year. Rogers added he was pleased President Obama showed his appreciation last year to these heroes by inviting the living members of the Tuskegee Airmen to be a part of his inauguration.“Alabamians should continue to take part in honoring these men and supporting this memorial, which would also leave a significant economic legacy for both the Tuskegee and the Macon County community,” Rogers said.During the meeting, Rogers expressed his thanks for the opportunity to work for these American heroes who served our nation during the height of World War II.“I will continue to do all I can to make sure the historic site in Tuskegee receives the necessary support from Congress,” Rogers added. - ### -
01.12.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers recently spoke to the Alexander City Rotary Club in Alexander City, Alabama and gave attendees insight on the direction our country is headed and the opportunity to discuss concerns on their minds.Rogers talked about health care reform and said he would not support any reform that included the “public option”. Rogers said our health care system does need some tweaking, but the entire system should not be overhauled and had hoped the Democratic Congressional Leadership would look at more commonsense solutions to achieving this goal.“I am disappointed in the health care reform legislation and the possibility of the government takeover of our health care system,” Rogers said.As Ranking Member on a Homeland Security Subcommittee, Rogers reiterated after the attempted Christmas Day terrorist attack the serious dangers of terrorists attacking the United States. He said Congress must bend over backwards to ensure our transportation systems are secure.Rogers talked about the transferring of Guantanamo Bay prisoners to the U.S. and the outrageous $500 million in taxpayer funding it would take to move the terrorists to American soil and upkeep a new facility.“It is outrageous to me Congress would even consider bringing these detainees – who wished harm on innocent American lives – to our country, especially at such astronomical costs during these tough economic times,” Rogers said.Rogers received questions on Federal government spending. Rogers said he opposed both H.R. 1, the Stimulus bill, which costs over $1 trillion with interest and H. Con. Res 85, the Democrats $3.5 trillion tax and spend budget.“The Federal government’s spending is out of control, leaving debt our children and grandchildren will have to deal with,” Rogers added.In addition to the Homeland Security Committee, Rogers is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and House Agriculture Committee. - ### -
01.12.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers recently held an open public meeting at House of Chen in Anniston, Alabama, to give local residents the opportunity to discuss face to face concerns on their minds.The top concern of most folks in attendance was the Federal government spending too much money on programs that don’t truly help our economy or secure our homeland from those who wish us harm.“Congress continues to spend money it doesn’t have and the debt is unbelievable,” Rogers said.Rogers reiterated his opposition of both H.R. 1, the Stimulus bill, which costs over $1 trillion with interest and H. Con. Res 85, the Democratic $3.5 trillion tax and spend budget.“In these tough economic times, it is unthinkable Congress would be so out of control with their spending instead of concentrating on what matters now – keeping taxes low and making health care more affordable,” Rogers added.Rogers said after the Christmas Day terrorist attack, Congress must redouble its efforts to secure our transportation system.“We must keep our Homeland safe from terrorists,” Rogers said. “Recent events have reminded Americans it is not a matter of if they will attack, but when they will attack.”Rogers said he will continue to oppose the current health care bill and will not support any plan with a “public option”. As the healthcare reform debate enters its final stages Rogers urged folks to continue to make known their thoughts and concerns.Rogers held these type meetings across the Third Congressional District until Congress went back in to session on January 12, 2010. - ### -
01.08.2010	The Alabama House delegation, will introduce a resolution congratulating the University of Alabama Crimson Tide for winning college football’s national championship.The House resolution will recognize the Crimson Tide for an undefeated season capped by 37-21 victory over the University of Texas Longhorns in the BCS National Championship Game in Pasadena, California.Congressman Mike Rogers (AL-03) said, “I am thrilled for the University of Alabama and proud of the young men who played their hearts out on the field. This is a proud day for our state.”Congressman Jo Bonner (AL-01) said, “All Alabamians can take pride in the Crimson Tide’s victory over Texas in the BCS National Championship Game. This crowning achievement is a fitting testament to what a motivated team inspired by exceptional leadership can accomplish. In three short years, Coach Nick Saban and his players have restored the University of Alabama to its rightful place among the best in college football. The young men of Alabama have demonstrated a toughness, resolve, and commitment to each other that will serve them well throughout life. As a representative, an alumnus and a fan, I couldn’t be happier with the Tide’s triumph over the talented and determined Longhorns – Roll Tide!”Congressman Bobby Bright (AL-02) said, “I would like to congratulate the Alabama Crimson Tide for winning its 13th Collegiate Football National Championship. Without question, tremendous teamwork and dedication were on full display Thursday night in Pasadena. Alabama is a very deserving champion, and the Tide’s victory is something for which the whole state can be proud. I am pleased to join my fellow Alabama delegation members in commending and recognizing the achievements of the student-athletes, Coach Saban and his staff, and the faculty who made this championship a reality.”Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) said, “Congratulations to the University of Alabama and its football team for winning the National Championship and representing the great state of Alabama with class and humility. The Tide football team has captivated our hearts with a dream-like season and we are so proud of the student-athletes, Coach Nick Saban and his staff, President Dr. Robert Witt, Athletic Director Mal Moore, and the entire University family.”Congressman Parker Griffith (AL-05) said, “Alabama football has a tradition of competing with the very best on the national level. This was demonstrated in true form last night as the entire nation watched the University of Alabama bring a National Championship home to our state. This honor was, without a doubt, a team effort extending beyond the players on the field to include families, university administration, support staff, the band, and everyone associated with the University of Alabama. I congratulate Nick Saban, the dedicated Crimson Tide players and coaching staff for their commitment to excellence which earned them this National Championship.”Bachus (AL-06), senior member of the Alabama delegation and lead sponsor, said, “The University of Alabama Crimson Tide showed what can be achieved when an administration, coaches, players, and fans come together for a single purpose. By working hard, overcoming adversity, and always putting the team first, Coach Saban and his players have brought honor to our great state. Alabama has a college football history second to none and just like the great champions of the past, we will be talking about the thrilling accomplishments of this Crimson Tide team for years to come.”Congressman Artur Davis (AL-07) said, “The University of Alabama football team is back where it belongs, and there is every reason to think they will be there for a long time. Their excellence should inspire our state in this second decade of a new century.”The national championship is the 13th in the history of the University of Alabama. It had last claimed a title in 1992 under Coach Gene Stallings. The program won six national championships under the leadership of the legendary Coach Paul “Bear” Bryant.The resolution will be formally submitted when the House returns to session on Tuesday. - ### -
01.07.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers recently held an open public meeting at the Bulldog Restaurant in Ranburne, Alabama, to give local residents the opportunity to discuss face to face concerns on their minds.The top concern of most folks in attendance was the possibility of a government-run health care system.“I completely understand these concerns and continue to strongly oppose the current healthcare bill,” Rogers said.Rogers also reiterated to the crowd that doctors and families should make their health care decisions, not government bureaucrats and Congress should not make cuts Medicare to pay for this health care reform.“I also remain strongly opposed to any form of the public option,” Rogers added.As the healthcare reform debate enters its final stages Rogers urged folks to continue to make known their thoughts and concerns.Rogers will continue to hold these type meetings across the Third Congressional District until he returns to Washington, D.C. when Congress goes back in to session on January 12, 2010. - ### -
01.07.2010	Congressman Mike Rogers recently held an open public meeting at Jimmy’s Restaurant in Opelika, Alabama, to give local residents the opportunity to discuss face to face concerns on their minds.The top concern of most folks in attendance was the direction our country is currently headed.“Congress continues to spend money it doesn’t have and the debt is becoming astronomical,” Rogers said.Rogers also reiterated his opposition of both H.R. 1, the Stimulus bill, which costs over $1 trillion with interest and H. Con. Res 85, the Democratic $3.5 trillion tax and spend budget.“In these tough economic times, it is unthinkable Congress would be so out of control with their spending instead of focusing on creating and keeping good paying jobs,” Rogers added.Rogers said he will continue to oppose the current health care bill and will not support any plan with a “public option”. As the healthcare reform debate enters its final stages Rogers urged folks to continue to make known their thoughts and concerns.Rogers will continue to hold these type meetings across the Third Congressional District until he returns to Washington, D.C. when Congress goes back in to session on January 12, 2010. - ### -
11.19.2009	Congressman Mike Rogers said today he recently sent a letter to House Armed Services Chairman Ike Skelton (MO) requesting the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee hold an investigative hearing regarding the tragic shootings at Fort Hood, Texas.The letter was sent after the November 5th shootings when thirteen deaths were confirmed and Major Nidal Malik Hasan was taken in to custody.‘Numerous troubling questions have arisen in the wake of the tragedy including whether this was a terrorist-related event, if the Army or the Federal government had information that could have prevented this from happening, and what was the extent of the failure of the command structure to respond to potential warnings that MAJ Hasan exhibited,’ the letter stated.The letter was signed by Congressman Rogers and sent on November 13, 2009.Rogers is a Member of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee as well as a Member of the Agriculture Committee and Ranking Member on Homeland Security Subcommittee. - ### -
10.16.2009	Shorter’s new Emergency Operations Center should receive $500,000 in Federal funding to help get it off the ground and serve the Macon County area, Congressman Mike Rogers announced today.Rogers said the $500,000 appropriation is crucial for helping create this new, much-needed Macon County facility. The funding was contained in H.R. 2892 the FY 2010 Homeland Security Appropriations Act, which passed the House today 307 to 114.Rogers voted in favor of the bill, which is expected to pass the Senate and should be signed into law by President Obama.“The Shorter Emergency Operations Center will provide the Macon County area with a one-stop-shop for all first responders, so they can better serve the entire community,” said Rogers. “Rural areas like those across East Alabama deserve high-quality safety resources like these to help keep citizens safe.”Rogers is a member of the Homeland Security Committee and Ranking Member on the Homeland Security preparedness subcommittee.”I am pleased to see Congress recognize the importance of this initiative and hope it will be beneficial to the entire community,” Rogers added.Rogers also serves on the Armed Services Committee and the Agriculture Committee. - ### -
10.16.2009	Calhoun County’s Center for Domestic Preparedness (CDP) got another boost this afternoon when the House of Representatives passed a final funding bill providing CDP $62.5 million for its fiscal year (FY) 2010 operating budget, Congressman Mike Rogers said today.Rogers said the $62.5 million appropriation, which matches last year’s funding level, is critical for the CDP to continue its mission as a one-of-a kind training facility for our first responders. The funding was contained in H.R. 2892 - the FY 2010 Homeland Security Appropriations Act, which passed the House today 307 to 114.Rogers voted in favor of the bill, which is expected to pass the Senate and should be signed into law by President Obama. In recent weeks, Rogers sent a letter to Conferees to request the $62.5 million in level funding, and has worked closely with Senators Shelby and Sessions to ensure that full funding was included for this important facility.“The Center for Domestic Preparedness provides critical, unique training for our nation’s first responders, and I am pleased to see the House of Representatives has passed this conference report to provide sufficient funding for the CDP’s important training mission,” said Rogers.Rogers is a member of the Homeland Security Committee and Ranking Member on the Homeland Security preparedness subcommittee.”I would like to thank Senator Shelby, once again, for his steadfast support of the CDP throughout this process this year,” Rogers added.Rogers also serves on the Armed Services Committee and the Agriculture Committee. - ### -
09.23.2009	Congressman Mike Rogers asked Homeland Security officials late last week why a multi-billion dollar, high-tech system of surveillance cameras and technology is still not fulfilling its mission of securing our porous Southwest border with Mexico.Known as the Secure Border Initiative or SBInet, the system helps guard thousands of miles of rural, unsecured border areas.“Over four years ago…[Congress] did a similar investigation…and thought surely that couldn’t happen again,” Rogers said in the hearing. “It seems like this is eerily similar to that debacle, but with a lot bigger numbers…….This is not the most sophisticated technology our country has…..[border security] is not rocket science.”Rogers said he hopes the Department of Homeland Security will redouble its efforts to secure our borders with Mexico and Canada. “The vast majority of America wants our borders secured now, not later. Congress cannot let the Federal government take a pass on its commitment to do so,” he said.The panel of witnesses included: Chief David Aguilar, U.S. Border Patrol, U.S. Customs and Border Protection; Mr. Mark Borkowski, Executive Director, Secure Border Initiative, U.S. Customs and Border Protection; Mr. Timothy E. Peters, Vice President and General Manager of Global Security Systems, The Boeing Company; Mr. Richard Stana, Director, Homeland Security and Justice Issues, Government Accountability Office (GAO).To see a portion of Rogers’ questioning, go to www.YouTube.com/MikeRogersAL03.Congressman Rogers serves as Ranking Member on the Homeland Security Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response as well as serving on the Armed Services and Agriculture Committees. - ### -
08.01.2009	Congressman Mike Rogers and Congressman Spencer Bachus (AL-06) announced that Auburn University will receive $1.5 million for defense research work under the House version of the FY10 Defense Appropriations bill.The university will use the funds for its logistical fuel processor program, which examines the use of fuel cells as a power source for military equipment. The sophisticated communications, electronics, and related equipment now being used in combat situations depend on reliable power supplies. The program’s goal is to help the army take commonly available diesel or jet fuels and use them in fuel cell systems that are smaller, lighter, less costly, and more energy-efficient than traditional combustion engines.Congressman Rogers said, “Auburn is an institution on the cutting edge in fuel cell research for the military which could eventually translate to greater energy-efficiency for civilian use. While we still have several steps to go in the legislative process, Congressman Bachus and I will work to ensure this important funding continues to receive strong support in Congress.”Congressman Bachus said, “This technology, although developed for the military, could have widespread civilian application. Domestically, such technology could ultimately lead to cleaner-burning, fuel efficient automobiles and trucks while at the same time reducing our dependence on foreign oil.”The Director of Public Communications for Auburn University, Brian Keeter, said, “Innovations in fuel technology enhance the capabilities of the U.S. Army, and we appreciate the support Congressmen Bachus and Rogers provide to one of Auburn University’s top research programs.”The defense measure was passed by the House yesterday. Appropriations bills need the approval of the House and Senate and the President’s signature before becoming law. - ### -
07.30.2009	Governor Bob Riley and the state’s congressional delegation today recognized the service and sacrifice of Alabama’s veterans as the Honor Flight program brought 101 veterans from across the state to the National World War II Memorial in Washington.Many of the veterans were making their first visit to the monument to freedom built on the National Mall. They were flown to Washington by Honor Flight Birmingham, a volunteer organization that arranges one-day trips to the memorial for veterans free of charge.Governor Riley and representatives of the state delegation met with the veterans during their visit to the memorial.Delegation members issued the following statements commending Honor Flight and the heroism of Alabama’s World War II veterans.Congressman Mike Rogers (AL-03) said, “I am pleased to see Honor Flight bring our brave veterans to Washington, D.C. to see this great memorial. Our nation owes these men and women our most profound sense of gratitude for their historic sacrifices and I am honored to have the opportunity to visit with them today.”Congressman Jo Bonner (AL-01) said, “As the son of World War II veterans, I only wish that my parents would have had the opportunity to see the World War II memorial built in honor of these brave men and women. We will never forget the valiant deeds and sacrifices they have made.”Congressman Bobby Bright (AL-02) said, “I have had the tremendous honor of participating in two Honor Flights since I have been in Congress. It is an excellent program that appropriately honors the sacrifices our World War II veterans have made for our country. I am extremely pleased that so many of our Alabama veterans have been able to participate in this program, and I look forward to welcoming them to the World War II Memorial for years to come.” Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) said, “What an honor it is to spend time with our Nation’s heroes, the men and women who have served in wars to preserve our freedom. World War II may be long over, but the appreciation for those who fought for us in that battle in still strong. The Honor Flight Birmingham is a great organization that is doing a commendable service for Alabama’s veterans their families.”Congressman Parker Griffith (AL-05) said, “Honor Flight gives us all the chance to give back to the people that have spent their entire lives in sacrifice to the flag. I am proud to support and work with everyone involved.”Congressman Spencer Bachus (AL-06), the dean of Alabama’s House delegation, said, “Thousands of Alabama’s finest sons and daughters answered the call of duty during World War II and fought to protect the freedom we all enjoy today. Honor Flight Birmingham is doing a great thing by bringing our veterans to see the grand memorial built by a grateful nation.”Congressman Artur Davis (AL-07) said, “American owes a debt that it can never repay to the soldiers who risked their lives to preserve liberty around the globe. My colleagues and I serve in a democracy today that is vibrant because of their valor.”The trip was the latest Birmingham Honor Flight visit to the World War II Memorial organized by the local all-volunteer chapter co-founded by Pam Nichols and Amy McDonald of Shelby County. -###-
07.29.2009	The members of Alabama’s Republican congressional delegation today made the following statements about the threat of government-run healthcare to America’s economy after speaking on the floor of the House of Representatives in opposition to the Democrat majority in Congress. Today’s floor speeches come a week after Republican members spoke out on June 21st against liberal policies that contribute to the record unemployment numbers in Alabama and across the nation.During the month of June, the national debt increased by $223.7 billion and, as of July 1, 2009, the national debt had increased $2.9 trillion since the Democrats took control of Congress on January 3, 2007. The Democrats’ proposed health care bill would increase the federal deficit by more than $230 billion over 10 years.Congressman Jo Bonner (AL-01) said, “The American people have genuine concern about what they are seeing come out of their federal government. Republicans know our healthcare system needs repair. We just do not want to see it destroyed all in the name of making it better.”Congressman Spencer Bachus (AL-06) said, “As long as we continue with this ‘government knows best’ approach, we are not going to get the health care reform or the kind of economic recovery that the American people deserve. We’ll only get bigger government, rationing and diminished quality of care, higher taxes, and fewer jobs.”Congressman Mike Rogers (AL-03) said, “The American people don’t want [government-run health care]. They want real reform just like the Republicans do. We want to have cost control, we want quality and we want access with real reforms."Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04) said, “There isn’t anyone in Congress who does not want to make our nation’s healthcare system better. However, with federal spending at the highest level in American history, the economy in a severe recession, and unemployment rising every day another massive government program with more spending, more borrowing and higher taxes will only hurt already struggling American families not help them.” - ### -
07.29.2009	Congressman Mike Rogers and Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-Haleyville) today announced that they were able to secure $100,000 in federal funding for Gadsden State Community College. The funding is included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Labor, Health and Human Services (HHS) and Education Appropriations Bill that passed the House of Representatives on July 24th by a vote of 264-153. A final version of the House and Senate bill is expected in the Fall of 2009.The funding will be used to provide and enhance technology in the classroom and technology infrastructure in campus facilities in Cherokee, Etowah, Cleburne and Calhoun Counties.“Gadsden State helps so many area students of all ages obtain the training and education they need to find jobs in today’s tough economy,” said Congressman Rogers. “I am thrilled Congressman Aderholt and I were able to secure this funding in the House bill, and will continue to work through the legislative process to ensure this funding makes it into law.”“Education is a top priority to both Congressman Rogers and myself and I’m glad that this funding will greatly help Gadsden State students,” said Congressman Aderholt. “This project will help ensure that our students have the technology they need to learn and to compete in the job market.”The annual Labor, HHS, and Education Appropriations bills provide the annual funding for several federal departments including the U.S. Department of Labor, Health and Human Services, and the U.S. Department of Education.Rep. Rogers serves on the Agriculture Committee, Armed Services and Homeland Security Committee as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response.Rep. Aderholt serves on the House Appropriations Committee, as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, and a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee. - ### -
06.27.2009	Congressman Mike Rogers released the following statement today after passage of H.R. 2454, the “Democrats’ Cap and Tax Bill.” The entire Alabama Delegation opposed this bill.“The Democrats’ cap-and-trade bill boils down to an unfair energy tax Alabama’s families and businesses. It has the chance to further harm our economy by increasing the cost of energy, hurting America’s competitiveness and sending good paying manufacturing jobs overseas.“Ultimately, I am deeply concerned the higher energy costs resulting from Speaker Pelosi’s complex and flawed legislation will dampen our nation’s chances for economic recovery and threaten the creation and retention of Alabama’s jobs. I am disappointed this bill passed the House today.“Alabamians are already struggling under the rising price of gasoline and electricity. Coupled with the terrible recession we are in, this bill stands to further penalize Alabama consumers with even higher energy costs, especially through the legislation’s slant against coal and renewable hydroelectric power.”- ### -
06.18.2009	Congressman Mike Rogers said today he is pleased to once again have the opportunity to serve on the House Armed Services Strategic Forces Subcommittee. Rogers served on the Strategic Forces Subcommittee the 108th – 110th Congress.“I have been honored to serve on the Strategic Forces Subcommittee previously, and am thrilled to have another opportunity to be a part of this group,” Rogers said. “This subcommittee has direct jurisdiction over defense and missile programs important to our state.”Rogers serves on the Readiness Subcommittee and Oversight and Intelligence Subcommittee on Armed Services, as well as the Agriculture Committee and Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Preparedness Subcommittee. - ### -
06.17.2009	Congressmen Mike Rogers and Bobby Bright met with FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate this afternoon to continue the discussion on reasons FEMA denied Individual Assistance in Montgomery and the River Region after May’s severe storms and flooding. The Alabama Congressmen discussed in particular what possible steps could be taken to help reverse FEMA’s initial decision.“I appreciate Administrator Fugate taking time out of his busy schedule to meet with us so we could hear more about what steps could be taken to help reverse FEMA’s initial decision,” Rogers said. “I will continue to work closely with FEMA and Alabama EMA to ensure we are doing all we can to help these devastated areas and suffering citizens get the assistance they need, but remain realistic that we still have a tough hill to climb.”“Today’s meeting with Administrator Fugate was productive and insightful into FEMA’s decision-making process,” Bright said. “Congressman Rogers and I clearly expressed our concerns about FEMA’s initial denial of individual assistance and strongly urged the Agency to reconsider its decision. Mr. Fugate was receptive to our concerns, and ensured us that he would closely examine any new information in the appeal and quickly make a final decision. I look forward to continuing to work with Mr. Fugate and his staff, the Governor’s office, and local officials during the appeal process.”Congressmen Rogers and Bright met with Montgomery Mayor Todd Strange last week and have been in contact with Alabama EMA. - ### -
06.13.2009	Congressmen Mike Rogers and Bobby Bright announced that they will meet with FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate on Tuesday to discuss FEMA’s denial of Individual Assistance in the River Region. They also applauded FEMA’s recent decision, at the request of the Governor’s office, to reexamine flood-damaged homes and businesses in Autauga, Bullock, and Montgomery counties.“I look forward to a productive dialogue with Administrator Fugate as to why Montgomery and the River Region were denied individual assistance after these severe storms and flooding,” Rogers said. “It is a step in the right direction to see FEMA take a second look at the flood damage in the region, and am hopeful FEMA will ultimately reconsider its initial decision.”“I want to thank Administrator Fugate for quickly agreeing to meet with us to further discuss damage in the River Region,” Bright said. “It is incredibly important that our constituents know why they were denied individual assistance, and what factors could lead to the reversal of that decision. I look forward to discussing the process in detail with Administrator Fugate. In the meantime, I am pleased that FEMA has taken the initial step in the appeal process by reexamining flood-damaged homes in Autauga, Bullock, and Montgomery Counties.”This week, Congressmen Rogers and Bright met with Montgomery Mayor Todd Strange and have been in close contact with the Alabama Emergency Management Agency regarding its ongoing efforts to appeal FEMA’s decision. On Tuesday, Bright and Rogers sent a letter to FEMA requesting a meeting with Administrator Fugate. - ### -
06.13.2009	Congressman Mike Rogers announced today he has sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner requesting the Treasury Department closely examine the concerns of local employees of Meadowcraft, a major Randolph County employer which has recently filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.Rogers pointed out in the letter that Meadowcraft’s assets were secured by a lender that received funds under the Troubled Assets Recovery Program (TARP).The letter states, ‘I agree the Federal government cannot mandate that a bank, even one that has received TARP money, extend financing to any specific company…… During these tough economic times, it is essential to give American businesses every opportunity to succeed. I urgently request that you provide your personal attention and consideration to the requests of Meadowcraft, details of which are enclosed with this letter. Your attention to their economic crisis could help save over 1300 good paying jobs in rural Alabama.’“I hope Secretary Geithner will strongly consider the concerns of these hard working Randolph County employees, who want nothing more than to be given a fair chance in this brutal economy,” Rogers said. “Now more than ever, it is critical the Federal government do all it can to help preserve and protect these types of good paying jobs, especially in our rural areas like Randolph County.”Meadowcraft, the largest manufacturer of wrought iron furniture in the world, employs over 1,300 people in Alabama with plants in Wadley and Selma. Meadowcraft recently filed bankruptcy. - ### -
06.10.2009	Congressmen Mike Rogers and Bobby Bright sent a joint letter to FEMA Administrator W. Craig Fugate requesting a meeting to further discuss the agency’s reasoning behind denying individual assistance to Autauga, Elmore, and Montgomery Counties. - ### -
06.04.2009	President Obama announced today that four counties in the River Region would be made eligible for federal assistance in their recovery from the severe storms, tornadoes, flooding and straight-line winds that occurred during May 6 – 8. Autauga, Bullock, Elmore, and Montgomery Counties were made eligible for public assistance. State and local governments, as well as certain private nonprofit organizations, will be able to access federal funding for repairing or replacing storm and flood damaged facilities. Additionally, federal assistance is available for hazard mitigation measures across the state.“I am pleased to see the swift response from President Obama and am hopeful this declaration will help Montgomery County and the River Region recover from the storms in early May,” Rogers said. “As Ranking Member on the Preparedness Subcommittee on Homeland Security, I will continue to make it a top priority to ensure our local communities are prepared and ready to respond when natural disasters strike,” Rogers added.“I would like to thank President Obama for quickly making a disaster declaration, and I thank Governor Riley for his continued attention to this matter” Bright said. “This declaration will go a long way in helping our communities recover from the severe floods and storms that occurred last month. As FEMA has clearly stated, other assistance could be made available in the future, and I will continue to advocate that the Second District receives all available federal funding and work with local officials in their recovery efforts.”Shortly after the storms, Congressmen Rogers and Bright sent a letter to President Obama requesting swift action on a federal disaster declaration.FEMA said additional designations, such as individual assistance, may be made at a later date if requested by the State and warranted by the results of further damage assessments. - ### -
05.20.2009	Members of Alabama’s House Delegation announced that they have sent a bipartisan letter describing the “negative impact” that proposed cap and trade legislation would have on energy prices and on the fragile state and national economy.All seven members of the delegation signed a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee expressing concerns about the American Clean Energy and Security Act (ACESA), which is being marked up this week.“The citizens of Alabama and our nation would be faced with large increases in energy prices due to the carbon cap and trade provisions of ACESA,” the letter stated.The letter was signed by Congressman Spencer Bachus, who is senior member of the delegation, and Representatives Robert Aderholt, Jo Bonner, Bobby Bright, Artur Davis, Parker Griffith and Mike Rogers.- ### -
05.20.2009	Congressman Mike Rogers announced today the appointment of 31 East Alabama Veterans to his new Third Congressional District Veterans Advisory Council.The all-volunteer committee is comprised of Veterans from all 13 Third District counties, and should serve as an additional avenue to help Rogers advocate for Veterans issues in East Alabama, he said. The first meeting will be held on May 28th right after Memorial Day.“The brave men and women in uniform who have served our country both here and overseas deserve the best possible care and support,” Rogers said. “I am honored so many East Alabamians have expressed interest in this important council and hope it will help me be an even better advocate for our Veterans’ concerns.”Rogers, a member of the Armed Services Committee who last year supported the historic expansion of the G.I. Bill, said the initial committee membership includes Veterans from recent military conflicts, including Iraq and Afghanistan. He said he looks forward to expanding the group to include other interested Veterans from across East Alabama. The council will hold its first meeting on Thursday, May 28th in Sylacauga. “Our first meeting will be right after Memorial Day, when all of us across East Alabama will have helped honor those men and women who have served and paid the ultimate price for our freedoms,” Rogers said.Rogers said the first Advisory Council meeting will help get the group introduced and should include the representatives from the 13 counties of the Third District.Rogers also serves as Ranking Member on a Homeland Security Subcommittee and on the Agriculture Committee.- ### -
05.05.2009	Artistic high school students from the Third District were honored this weekend in Sylacauga, as Congressman Mike Rogers announced the winners of the 28th annual Congressional Art Competition.Tevin Drake, a junior at Opelika High School, took First Place for his colored pencil creation titled “Self Portrait.” This is Drake’s third consecutive year winning the art contest. Drake came in first place this year out of 40 contestants.Drake’s “Self Portrait” will be displayed for one year in the walkway leading to the U.S. Capitol.All artwork submitted for the contest was on view at the Comer Museum in Sylacauga. - ### -
04.28.2009	Congressman Mike Rogers joined the social media site Twitter recently, saying he hoped Third District constituents will find it to be another helpful avenue to stay in touch with their Congressman when he’s back in Washington, D.C. or traveling East Alabama.If you have an account with Twitter and want to follow Rogers, go to https://twitter.com/RepMikeRogersAL. Otherwise, you can sign up for an account at http://twitter.com/ and find him under the search tab.“With more information available on the internet these days, this is provides an additional way I can be available to folks back home and keep them up to date on who I am meeting with or what I am voting on,” Rogers said.“In a time when this new social media is all the rage, this gives me a forum to reach out to younger generations and tech-savvy folks alike,” Rogers added.Rogers also encouraged folks interested in issues that Congress is currently debating to sign up for his free E-Newsletter service. Constituents can view recent E-Newsletters by clicking on E-Newsletters under Report from Washington on his website at www.house.gov/mike-rogers. - ### -
04.04.2009	Congressman Mike Rogers participated this week in a House Armed Services Committee Hearing on the new U.S. Strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan. The lead witness was General David Petraeus, United States Central Command.Rogers, along with several other Members of Congress, questioned General Petraeus on when the remaining 13,000 troops would be deployed to Afghanistan in order to meet the 34,000 troop level goal that General David McKiernan has said that he needs. The question was in response to the President’s announcement to deploy 4,000 more troops, in addition to the 17,000 that he originally declared, to Afghanistan. Rogers also inquired when Congress would see milestones, goals and objectives from the Department of Defense on the Afghanistan and Pakistan strategy.“I think it is important that Congress know what we are trying to accomplish in Afghanistan,” Rogers said.“Afghanistan will offer a new set of challenges with more rural areas and a different terrain than what our brave men and women in uniform have experienced in Iraq. We must also make sure that our strategy takes into account the unique set of circumstances with Pakistan,” he added.Rogers says he believes the same level of commitment to victory is as important in Afghanistan as it is in Iraq.Rogers is as also a member of the Homeland Security Committee and the Agriculture Committee. - ### -
04.01.2009	Congress must do more to help support the needs of local law enforcement along the Southwest border with Mexico as they confront rising violence from Mexican drug cartels, Congressman Mike Rogers said today.Discussed today at a Homeland Security subcommittee hearing, Rogers heard testimony from two border sheriffs that local first responders need more than just empty promises from the Federal Government. Law enforcement officers along the border testified they are understaffed and underfunded to help keep American citizens living along the border safe from drug related violence from Mexico. Witnesses said they all need additional communication equipment, infrastructure and personnel. Congressman Mike Rogers serves as Ranking Member on the subcommittee.“With the fighting between drug cartels in Mexico, our nation must be prepared to stop the terrible violence from coming into our country,” Rogers said. “Congress must do more to help support and financially aid first responders along the Southwest border to keep violence down and illegal immigrants out.” Rogers also called on the Department to hire, train, and deploy more federal ICE agents to work in concert with local first responders.Rogers added, “What we discussed today will be very important for helping Congress do the right thing when it comes to providing support for our law enforcement officials. The violence along our border with Mexico is increasingly dangerous, and it is imperative that Congress doesn’t get caught flat footed in response.”Rogers is as also a member of the Armed Services Committee and the Agriculture Committee. #-#-#
03.06.2009	The Jacksonville Fire Department should soon have sufficient funding to begin a hiring and recruitment program to increase their numbers and help better protect local citizens, Congressman Mike Rogers said today.“These brave men and women are our first line of defense and preparedness locally, and I will continue to do whatever I can to support these types of initiatives,” Rogers said.Known as a SAFER Grant (Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response), this $635,313 grant was awarded to The Jacksonville Fire Department by the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added.This award is made under the Fiscal Year 2008 Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. This is round 14 of the AFG Program - Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) announcements. - ### -
03.05.2009	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Centre Fire Department today for receiving a $71,720 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Cherokee County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Cherokee County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Centre Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2008 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
02.11.2009	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Ashland Fire Department today for receiving a $22,982 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Clay County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Clay County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Ashland Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2008 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
02.04.2009	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Winterboro Volunteer Fire and Rescue, Inc. today for receiving a $69,303 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Talladega County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Talladega County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Winterboro Volunteer Fire and Rescue, Inc. for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2008 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
02.04.2009	Congressman Mike Rogers said today he is pleased to begin serving as Ranking Member on a different Homeland Security Subcommittee. He will end his tenure as the top ranking Republican on the Management, Investigations and Oversight Subcommittee, in exchange for the top Republican slot on the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response Subcommittee. Rogers was approved Tuesday night by Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Committee, Peter King (NY).“I look forward to working with Ranking Member Rogers over the next two years to ensure the continuing security of our nation,” King said. “Rogers understands the seriousness of the task at hand—guiding the Department of Homeland Security through this critical time of transition and crafting the policy that will keep this country free from terrorist attack,” King added.“I have been honored to serve on the Oversight Subcommittee, and am thrilled to have secured a leadership position on the Preparedness Subcommittee,” Rogers said. “This subcommittee has direct jurisdiction over the needs of our rural first responders as well as the interests of the Center for Preparedness (CDP) in Anniston. I am hopeful to serve as an even stronger voice for the first responder community in Congress, and that my involvement will help the CDP continue to grow and fulfill its mission.”The CDP serves as a one of a kind facility that trains our first responders on weapons of mass destruction (WMD) and hazardous material. - ### -
02.04.2009	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Wedowee Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving a $42,750 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Randolph County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Randolph County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Wedowee Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2008 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
02.04.2009	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Hanover Volunteer Fire Department and Kellyton Volunteer Fire and Rescue today for receiving grants from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Coosa County fire departments purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Coosa County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Hanover Volunteer Fire Department and Kellyton Volunteer Fire and Rescue for receiving these grants, and hope they will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said Hanover Volunteer Fire Department should receive a $26,125 grant and Kellyton Volunteer Fire and Rescue should receive a $22,895 grant, both to help the fire departments purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.These grants should be awarded under the 2008 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
02.04.2009	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Beauregard Volunteer Fire Department, Inc. today for receiving a $113,608 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Lee County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Lee County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Beauregard Volunteer Fire Department, Inc. for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2008 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
01.14.2009	Congressman Mike Rogers made the following remarks today in response to the House passage of a bill to reauthorize the State Children’s Health Insurance Program.“With our economy in recession and so many East Alabama families struggling with layoffs and lost healthcare coverage, it’s critical Congress reauthorizes this important program that ultimately helps children and families who need it most. This bill is far from perfect, but with working families facing increasingly difficult economic times I believe it’s time to get this done. I am hopeful that the state of Alabama will continue to run a successful ALL Kids program and this bill will only help in their ability to serve the needy kids in our communities.”Rogers said he voted in favor of the bill which passed the House 289-139. He also voted in favor of the Republican alternative which would have forced states to cover the poorest children first and included other features that he believes would have made a stronger bill. - ### -
01.14.2009	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Phenix City Fire and Rescue Services today for receiving a $50,990 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Russell County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Russell County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Phenix City Fire and Rescue Services for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2008 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Management, Investigations and Oversight on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
01.09.2009	With unemployment rising and the nation’s economy in recession, Congressman Mike Rogers introduced the H.R. 385, the Consumer Auto Relief (CAR) Act, today to help everyday Americans purchase a new vehicle through targeted tax breaks after the purchase. Rogers says he is hopeful a version of the bill could be included in President-elect Obama’s new economic stimulus bill which should be debated in coming weeks.“With the state of our economy and consumer confidence at the lowest point in years, my hope is that this bill could help give folks who need a new vehicle an incentive to go out and purchase one with tax benefits. The bill also gives incentives for lenders to loan the money to folks buying the new cars,” Rogers said.The bill breaks down into three 90-day periods of Federal tax deductions after enactment of the bill. During the first 90 days, consumers would receive a $7,500 Federal tax deduction, the second 90 days a $5,000 deduction and the third 90 days a $2,500 deduction. It would also make 100 percent tax deductible interest and state and local taxes paid on the purchase in 2009.Lenders would also get a break with a 50 percent deductibility of earnings on all new consumer car loans during this nine month period.“Congress needs to find creative ways to help stimulate our economy. With so many Alabamians now employed in the automotive industry, this bill could help protect our jobs by encouraging demand while also helping struggling families afford a new vehicle when they may really need one,” Rogers added.The bill received bipartisan support from 10 members. -###-
01.06.2009	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of the Huguley Fire Department and Fredonia Fire and Rescue Volunteer Company today for receiving grants from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Chambers County fire departments purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment and a firefighting vehicle.“Chambers County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of these fire departments for receiving these grants, and hope they will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the Huguley Fire Department should receive $73,150 in funding to help purchase operations and safety equipment, and the Fredonia Fire and Rescue Volunteer Company should receive $190,000 in funding to help purchase a new firefighting vehicle.Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2008 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation. According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Management, Investigations and Oversight on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
01.06.2009	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of Friendship Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving a $29,430 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Lee County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Lee County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Friendship Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2008 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Management, Investigations and Oversight on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
01.06.2009	Standing on the floor of the House of Representatives today, Congressman Mike Rogers was sworn in as the Third District’s Congressional representative in Washington. This marks the beginning of Rogers’ fourth two-year term representing East Alabama in Congress.“In these tough economic times, I am humbled and honored to be given the opportunity again to serve as East Alabama’s voice and representative in the United States Congress. I hope folks will continue to contact my office with their concerns and needs,” Rogers said.Rogers said strengthening our nation’s struggling economy should be Congress’ top priority. “Congress must do all it can to help create good paying jobs and keep taxes low,” he said, adding he will continue to monitor closely the details of President-elect Obama’s public works economic stimulus plan for possible benefits for the Third District.With our nation still at war in Iraq and Afghanistan, Congressman Rogers says he will continue to do all he can to help provide sufficient funding for our nation’s military, as well as continue to strongly advocate for the Third District’s military installations. “Our brave men and women serving our country must be equipped with the best possible equipment as they fight on our behalf,” he said.Although gas prices have recently fallen recently, Rogers says he plans to continue working tirelessly with local farmers across East Alabama and institutions like Auburn University and Tuskegee University to help develop new forms of alternative energy. “Our nation must not lose sight of our need to become energy independent. Long term, ending our dependence on foreign oil will mean new jobs and a stronger economy,” Rogers added.Rogers said he also plans to continue doing what he can to strengthen Social Security and Medicare for East Alabama’s seniors, and continuing to secure our porous borders. - ### -
01.06.2009	Standing on the floor of the House of Representatives today, Congressman Mike Rogers was sworn in as the Third District’s Congressional representative in Washington. This marks the beginning of Rogers’ fourth two-year term representing East Alabama in Congress.“In these tough economic times, I am humbled and honored to be given the opportunity again to serve as East Alabama’s voice and representative in the United States Congress. I hope folks will continue to contact my office with their concerns and needs,” Rogers said.Rogers said strengthening our nation’s struggling economy should be Congress’ top priority. “Congress must do all it can to help create good paying jobs and keep taxes low,” he said, adding he will continue to monitor closely the details of President-elect Obama’s public works economic stimulus plan for possible benefits for the Third District.With our nation still at war in Iraq and Afghanistan, Congressman Rogers says he will continue to do all he can to help provide sufficient funding for our nation’s military, as well as continue to strongly advocate for the Third District’s military installations. “Our brave men and women serving our country must be equipped with the best possible equipment as they fight on our behalf,” he said.Although gas prices have recently fallen recently, Rogers says he plans to continue working tirelessly with local farmers across East Alabama and institutions like Auburn University and Tuskegee University to help develop new forms of alternative energy. “Our nation must not lose sight of our need to become energy independent. Long term, ending our dependence on foreign oil will mean new jobs and a stronger economy,” Rogers added.Rogers said he also plans to continue doing what he can to strengthen Social Security and Medicare for East Alabama’s seniors, and continuing to secure our porous borders. - ### -
01.06.2009	Congressman Mike Rogers congratulated the men and women of Fosters Crossroads Volunteer Fire Department today for receiving a $46,883 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, funding Rogers said would help the Randolph County fire department purchase new firefighting operations and safety equipment.“Randolph County’s first responders are our first line of defense,” Rogers said. “I congratulate the men and women of the Fosters Crossroads Volunteer Fire Department for receiving this grant, and hope it will ultimately help increase the safety for all local citizens.”Rogers said the grant should be awarded under the 2008 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, an essential Federal program which supports first responders across Alabama and the nation.According to the Homeland Security Department, which administers the grant, the purpose of the program is to award funding directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards.Rogers is Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Management, Investigations and Oversight on the Committee on Homeland Security in Congress. “I am pleased to see the Federal government is continuing to make these types of investments in the Third District,” he added. -###-
01.05.2009	Congressman Mike Rogers said today Israel has a right to defend itself against the continuing bombing of innocent Israeli civilians by the terrorist group Hamas in the Gaza strip near southern Israel.Rogers, a member of the Armed Services Committee, said since Israel’s full withdrawal from Gaza in 2005, Hamas and other terrorist groups have turned the area into a launching pad for more than 6,000 rocket and mortar attacks against Israel instead of seizing the historic opportunity to build a better life for the people of Gaza. News reports have shown many of these rocket and mortar attacks against Israel were targeted at innocent civilians, including schools and hospitals.“We must all remember that all free and democratic nations across the world are engaged in a war on terrorism. Hamas is no different than Al-Qaeda, Hezbollah or any other ruthless terrorist organization. It seeks to terrorize free people by killing and traumatizing innocents,” Rogers added.Rogers said Israel is fighting a terrorist group that is relentlessly attacking its people, and for Israel to do anything less than fully defending itself militarily would be completely irresponsible. Inaction, Rogers said, could cause long-term detrimental implications to Israel’s security in the region.“I wholeheartedly support Israel’s right to self defense and its efforts to eliminate the Hamas terrorist and rocket launching sites in the Gaza strip through their military offensive. I urge the United Nations and our European counterparts to do the same,” Rogers concluded. -###-
