04.11.2019	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, issued the following statement following the United States government’s denial of entry to Founder of the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions movement Omar Barghouti: “We have witnessed the rise of anti-Semitism and anti-Israel hate throughout the world, in our nation, on college campuses and within the halls of Congress, and whether this bigotry is brazen or shamefully masked as ‘legitimate’ we must reject it wherever it exists. “Just last year, at New York University, following the student government’s passage of a resolution supporting BDS, NYU’s Bronfman Center for Jewish Student Life was temporarily closed after a student issued threatening messages on social media expressing his desire for zionists to die. Yet, once again, NYU, in attempting to host Omar Barghouti, is providing a platform for this blatant bigotry and emboldening a man who compares Israelis to Nazis and, in referring to Zionism, said 'I, for one, support euthanasia,” under the guise of a ‘Candid Conversation about BDS.’ “Barghouti’s anti-Israel and anti-Semitic hate must not be tolerated, empowered or embraced, and I applaud the Administration's denial of his entry to the United States.” On Wednesday, Congressman Zeldin was joined by Republican Whip Steve Scalise (R, LA-1) Lead Republican of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs Michael McCaul (R, TX-10), and David Kustoff (R, TN-8) to announce an effort to discharge H.R. 336, the Strengthening America’s Security in the Middle East Act of 2019, which would combat the BDS movement following Speaker Pelosi’s refusal to bring this legislation to the floor for a vote. About the discharge process: On Wednesday, Rep. Kustoff and Rep. Zeldin introduced a rule providing for floor consideration of H.R. 336. In May, upon the rule ripening, Whip Scalise will file a discharge petition and corral signatures on the Kustoff/Zeldin rule. Upon receiving 218 signatures, H.R. 336 will receive floor consideration. Last month, Congressman Zeldin was joined by Reps. Brad Schneider (D, IL-10), Jerry Nadler (D, NY-10) and Ann Wagner (R, MO-02) in introducing H.Res. 246, a bipartisan resolution opposing the Global Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) Movement targeting Israel.
04.09.2019	WASHINGTON - On Tuesday, April 9, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) and other Members of Congress were joined by small businesses from New York’s First Congressional District and around the country in calling for permanent H-2B visa reform. Last month, Congressman Zeldin and local businesses called on the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to raise the H-2B Visa Program cap to ensure local businesses have the adequate workforce they need ahead of the upcoming peak season. Following their calls, the Secretary of Homeland Security allocated an additional 30,000 H-2B visas for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2019. However, Congressman Zeldin and local businesses are continuing their call for a more permanent, long term solution to improve the H-2B Visa Program so small businesses have the certainty and stability they need for years to come.
04.05.2019	WASHINGTON - Representatives Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, and Eliot Engel (D, NY-16), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, reintroduced legislation (H.Con.Res.32) calling for justice following the 1999 executions of NY-1 residents, Ylli, Agron and Mehmet Bytyqi, who resided in Hampton Bays, New York, legislation the House Foreign Affairs Committee passed last year. In December 2018, the Department of State designated Goran Radosavljevic of Serbia under Section 7031(c) due to his involvement in gross violations of human rights, including the murder of the Bytyqi brothers, and, earlier this year, Ranking Member Zeldin and Chairman Engel met in Munich, Germany, with Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic to continue to demand justice in this case. Congressman Zeldin said, “In July of 1999, these three brothers went overseas towards the end of the Kosovo war and were arrested by Serbian authorities for illegally entering the country when they accidentally crossed into Serbian-controlled territory. The brothers were kidnapped, murdered, and dumped into a mass grave in Serbia by government officials still serving today. The Bytyqi brothers gave their lives to fight injustice; now, we must secure justice for them.” Chairman Engel said, “This legislation makes it clear that Serbia must fully investigate the Bytyqi brothers’ case and bring justice to the families of these murdered New Yorkers. The United States’ relationship with Serbia depends on Serbia’s adherence to the rule of law and human rights, and commitment to prosecute horrendous criminal cases such as this. I’ll keep up the fight and I will not rest until the Bytyqi family and victims of the crimes committed during the Kosovo War see justice.”
04.04.2019	Watch Rep. Zeldin’s remarks ahead of the vote here. WASHINGTON - Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 829, legislation introduced by Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) to honor the life and legacy of Army Specialist Thomas J. Wilwerth by renaming in his honor the Post Office in his hometown of Mastic, New York. Specialist Wilwerth participated in the Junior ROTC program while at William Floyd High School and enlisted in the Army Reserves his junior year at just 17 years old. Deployed in December 2005 as part of Operation Iraqi Freedom, Specialist Wilwerth and two other servicemembers fell in the line of duty on February 22, 2006, when an explosive device detonated near his Bradley Fighting Vehicle while on morning patrol near Balad, Iraq. “I wish there were more people who possessed such a profound sense of patriotism. Even fewer answer the call at just the age of 17, who sacrifice their entire lives and their entire future to serve in the U.S. military,” said Congressman Lee Zeldin. “Specialist Wilwerth was the best of who we are. He is the embodiment of what makes this country the greatest in the world - the willingness to make the ultimate sacrifice in defense of our exceptional nation. The willingness to lay down one’s life for his neighbors, for his community but most courageously for those Americans he never knew.” “Tommy died so that his fellow Americans could live a better life,” said the Wilwerth family. “His deep rooted sense of patriotism drove him to enlist in the aftermath of September 11th, and he would have been so proud of his sacrifice on behalf of our entire nation. To have his name and legacy displayed in the heart of the community he loved – the community he laid down his life for – will never bring him home, but it will ensure his memory and sacrifice live on in the hearts of those who call Long Island home.”
04.03.2019	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after the Secretary General of the North Atlantic Trade Organization (NATO) His Excellency Jens Stoltenberg addressed a joint session of Congress: “This year marks the 70th anniversary of NATO, and today’s address was an important reminder of the vital role this historic alliance plays in maintaining peace both at home and abroad and in fostering democracy around the world. This critical transatlantic bond was born from the ashes of World War II, founded on the principle of mutual defense and commitment to thwarting the unprecedented loss of life that marked the 20th century. “While this important partnership has played an indispensable role in the safety and security of member states, there is always more we can do to bolster this alliance. The vitality and strength of NATO is reinforced when all member states contribute fairly to our mutual defense, and I look forward to continuing to work with our allies around the world to reaffirm our commitment to the principles on which this alliance was founded.” Congressman Zeldin invited Navy Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (NJROTC) Senior Instructor of the North Fork Program Major Bill Grigonis as his gallery guest for the Joint Session who stated the following ahead of the address: “It is such an honor to be able to witness democracy first hand during the Secretary General of NATO’s Joint Address to Congress,” said Major Grigonis. “This is the opportunity of a lifetime, an experience I can pass down to all of my students in the Southold, Mattituck and Greenport School Districts, not just those involved in NJROTC. I thank Congressman Zeldin for this opportunity to represent my students, the North Fork and our entire Congressional district during this important address.”
04.03.2019	WASHINGTON - On Tuesday, April 2, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, met with Acting Foreign Minister of Albania for Europe and Foreign Affairs Gent Cajak and Albanian Ambassador to the United States Floreta Faber to discuss Albania’s 2020 Chairmanship of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE), necessary protections for Albania’s minority populations, and forging strong bilateral relations between our two countries.
04.01.2019	Long Island faces many unique challenges not experienced in most other parts of the country, such as high local property taxes, unaffordable energy costs and a skyrocketing cost of living. These challenges have chased Long Islanders and opportunities away from our home here on the island. In 2018, the average household income in Suffolk County was roughly $92,000, and while that may seem like a lot of money compared to what people make in other parts of the country, it certainly does not go anywhere near as far locally. For hardworking Long Islanders, the high cost of living is affecting so many young people’s ability to raise their families here and seniors’ ability to stay in the communities they love. While some Long Islanders have seen more money in their paychecks under tax reform, there are too many middle-income families paying more. Much of this discrepancy can be credited to the placement of a $10,000 cap on the State and Local Tax (SALT) deduction. This cap translates to Long Islanders being able to deduct only $10,000 of state and local income, sales, and property taxes from their federal taxes. In a place like New York, where state and local taxes are skyrocketing, this cap takes its toll on the pockets of everyday hardworking men and women. Of course, it’s important to remember that the reason our state and local tax deduction was so high was because our state and local taxes were so high. Every level of government has a role to play in reducing our tax burden. The SALT deduction change though was a geographic redistribution of wealth, taking extra money from places like New York to pay for deeper tax cuts elsewhere. New York is a net contributor that now will be contributing even more. The 2017 tax law chose winners and losers in a way that could have and should have been avoided. My goal in this tax reform mission has always been to ensure the hard working men and women of Long Island keep more of their paycheck, reduce their cost of living, and are able to save more for retirement, and the fight to improve our tax code so that it is fair for Long Islanders is not over. I support fully restoring the SALT deduction as part of any additional tax legislation. This Congress, I am continuing the fight by cosponsoring the SALT Fairness Act of 2019 (H.R. 257), introduced by Reps. Peter King and Tom Suozzi, and the SALT Deductibility Act (H.R. 188), introduced by Rep. Nita Lowey, which would repeal the limitation on SALT deductions. I’m willing to work with anyone on either side of the aisle to secure tax relief for my constituents, and I won’t stop fighting to ensure middle-income Long Islanders are able to keep more of their hard earned money. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York in the U.S. House of Representatives.
03.29.2019	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen decided to allocate an additional 30,000 H-2B visas for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2019. “I applaud the Secretary of Homeland Security for lifting the cap on H-2B visas for the remainder of this year to help ensure Long Island employers get the seasonal workers they need,” said Congressman Zeldin. “However, the fight isn’t over. Suffolk County businesses have experienced uncertainty year after year and they need stability and consistency for the seasons ahead. I look forward to continuing to advocate on behalf of these hardworking Long Islanders so they can continue to grow their businesses in our community and strengthen our local economy.” Additional information is forthcoming and the guidance that will be published by the Department of Homeland Security here will outline next steps for businesses and their current H-2B visa applications. Last week, Congressman Zeldin and local businesses called on the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to raise the H-2B Visa Program cap to ensure local businesses have the adequate workforce they need ahead of the upcoming peak season. Additionally, Congressman Zeldin continued his call on Congress to enact a more permanent, long term solution to improve the H-2A and H-2B Visa Programs. President of the Montauk Chamber of Commerce Paul Monte said during the press conference, “It's no secret that our sleepy little hamlet of Montauk has become a well-known and extremely popular vacation destination. Each year, thanks to our residents and loyal visitors, hundreds of millions of dollars in spending are generated just by the accommodations, food & beverage and retail industries in our little hamlet. Over the past 10 years it has become increasingly difficult to find homegrown labor to fill our seasonal positions; and now with our booming economy and record low unemployment it is almost impossible. The solution to this ongoing problem has been the H-2B Visa, guest worker program. This program is the lifeblood of our resort town and many others just like it throughout America. Without the seasonal workers provided by this program many businesses would be forced to scale back on their services or in some cases actually close their doors for good.” Landscape Specialist Gordon Andrews of Hampton Bays said last week, “With our busiest season fast approaching, local business owners are worried we won’t have the workforce we need to meet our peak season’s demand. Year after year, we experience the same uncertainty, which hurts the potential growth of our business and our local economy. If we are unable to fill these jobs with the available U.S. workforce, we must be able to fill them immediately through the H-2B program. I thank Congressman Zeldin for being a vocal advocate on this issue.” John Tortorella of Southampton said last week, “As a business owner, the ability to provide for my customers during peak season is reliant on the workforce provided through the H-2B Visa Program. In addition to lifting the current H-2B visa cap, there are vital reforms that must be made to the underlying program so business owners like myself, don’t have to worry about having the labor we need season after season. I thank Congressman Zeldin’s office for their open communication on this issue, and urge all Members of Congress to follow in Congressman Zeldin’s footsteps in fighting for long-term reforms and stability for this vital program.” ‘The workforce provided by the H-2A Visa Program is vital to enabling the farmers in Suffolk County to continue to feed our local communities,” said Rob Carpenter, Director of Long Island Farm Bureau after the event. “At every level – from the farms to the halls of Congress – it is critical that everyone understands what an important role this program, and the workforce it provides, plays in our communities and for our small businesses that are the backbone of our towns”
03.28.2019	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) just issued the following statement: “The American people deserve the truth, the opportunity to review all relevant information and to make their own conclusions. Release it all...start to finish. This includes the Mueller report, documents related to the Clinton probe ending, the Trump-Russia probe launching, the Page FISA applications and more. The public deserves to know the truth, the whole truth & nothing but the truth. Sunlight & accountability!” Rep. Zeldin also issued the following tweet here
03.28.2019	WASHINGTON - On Wednesday, March 27, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with Director of the New York/New Jersey Veterans Affairs (VA) Health Care Network Dr. Joan McInerney, Interim Director of the Northport VAMC Dr. Cathy Cruise, Deputy Network Director of the New York/New Jersey VA Health Care Network Tom Sharpe, and Director of the New York Harbor Health Care System Martina Parauda from to discuss the delivery of health care to veterans on Long Island.
03.27.2019	WASHINGTON - On Wednesday, March 27, 2019, Reps. Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Bill Foster (D, IL-14), Chuck Fleishchmann (R, TN-3) and Ben Ray Lujan (D, NM-3), as co-chairs of the National Labs Caucus, joined Department of Energy Under Secretary for Science Paul Dabbar in addressing representatives from national labs across the country, including Brookhaven National Laboratory Director Doon Gibbs, to discuss funding priorities and the importance of supporting national labs’ critical work in our communities.
03.27.2019	WASHINGTON - On Wednesday, March 27, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with Adjutant General of the New York Army National Guard Major General Ray Shields, New York Air National Guard Commander Brigadier General Timothy J LaBarge and others to discuss local priorities, upcoming projects at Gabreski Air National Guard Base and how we can keep the New York Army and Air National Guards strong and prepared as vital components of our homeland security.
03.26.2019	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) just announced that he has selected Navy Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (NJROTC) Senior Instructor of the North Fork Program Major Bill Grigonis as his gallery guest to Secretary General of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Jens Stoltenberg’s Joint Address to Congress on Wednesday, April 3, 2019. Congressman Zeldin and Major Grigonis are pictured above on March 15, 2019, at the North Fork NJROTC’s Annual Military Ball, during which Congressman Zeldin invited him as his guest at the upcoming joint address. “It’s an honor to have Major Grigonis represent our community at this Joint Session of Congress. His commitment to our community and service to our nation elicits so much pride in New York’s First Congressional District,” said Congressman Zeldin. “Having led so many young people in our community through the NJROTC program and into a life of service, it is an honor to have him represent our great district, our values and the North Fork during this important address to Congress.” “It is such an honor to be able to witness democracy first hand during the Secretary General of NATO’s Joint Address to Congress,” said Major Grigonis. “This is the opportunity of a lifetime, an experience I can pass down to all of my students in the Southold, Mattituck and Greenport School Districts, not just those involved in NJROTC. I thank Congressman Zeldin for this opportunity to represent my students, the North Fork and our entire Congressional district during this important address.”
03.25.2019	ROCKY POINT, NY - On Saturday, March 23, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined Suffolk County Army Recruiting for its Future Soldier Send-off Ceremony at Shoreham US Army Reserve Center in Rocky Point. During the ceremony, Congressman Zeldin swore in dozens of Long Islanders who will soon depart for Army and Army Reserve basic training.
03.23.2019	HAMPTON BAYS, NY - On Saturday, March 23, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the Hampton Bays St. Patrick’s Day Parade, which was sponsored by the Ancient Order of Hibernians.
03.23.2019	CALVERTON, NY - On Saturday, March 23, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined the Long Island Farm Bureau for their annual “Coffee with the Congressman”, during which they discussed the issues facing local East End farmers, including trade, immigration and food safety.
03.22.2019	WASHINGTON – Representatives Brad Schneider (D, IL-10), Lee Zeldin (R, NY-01), Jerry Nadler (D, NY-10) and Ann Wagner (R, MO-02) introduced a bipartisan resolution opposing efforts to delegitimize the state of Israel and the Global Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) Movement targeting Israel. The four members issued the following joint statement on the resolution: “A two-state solution remains the best way to justly resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and ensure a future for two peoples living side-by-side in peace, security and prosperity. By denying the Jewish claim to a homeland, the BDS Movement is fundamentally incompatible with a two-state solution and pushes the cause of peace for both Israel and the Palestinians further out of reach. This resolution makes clear that Congress remains committed to a two-state solution and opposes zero-sum efforts to delegitimize the state of Israel.” Text of H.Res 246 is available online.
03.20.2019	WESTHAMPTON, NY - On Wednesday, March 20, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was joined by local employers and elected officials at Peat & Son Nursery in Westhampton, New York, to call on the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to raise the H-2B Visa Program cap to ensure local businesses have the adequate workforce they need ahead of the upcoming peak season. Additionally, Congressman Zeldin continued his call on Congress to enact a more permanent, long term solution to improve the H-2A and H-2B Visa Programs. Seasonal visa programs allow employers to supplement their current workforce by hiring foreign workers on a seasonal basis. These foreign workers come to the United States legally filling jobs not already filled by U.S. employees in areas of labor shortage. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has already notified employers the 66,000 visa cap has been reached for the second half of the year for H-2B and many businesses locally and throughout the country have not received the workforce they need even though the local workforce just is not available in many communities. It is clear the current H-2B visa cap cannot adequately meet the demands of today's seasonal businesses, and DHS must lift the cap to provide certainty and stability to local businesses. “If you employed every single able bodied person in Suffolk County it would still not be enough to fill all of the open positions these business owners have,” said Congressman Zeldin. “It is a great problem to have when our local economy has more available jobs than people available to fill the positions, but it is imperative our employers are able to somehow fill their work force legally and immediately. Peak season is upon us and the Secretary of Homeland Security must utilize her authority to raise the cap to ensure Suffolk County businesses have the workforce they need for this peak season as well as stability and consistency in the years ahead.” “It's no secret that our sleepy little hamlet of Montauk has become a well-known and extremely popular vacation destination,” said President of the Montauk Chamber of Commerce Paul Monte during the press conference. “Each year, thanks to our residents and loyal visitors, hundreds of millions of dollars in spending are generated just by the accommodations, food & beverage and retail industries in our little hamlet. Over the past 10 years it has become increasingly difficult to find homegrown labor to fill our seasonal positions; and now with our booming economy and record low unemployment it is almost impossible. The solution to this ongoing problem has been the H-2B Visa, guest worker program. This program is the lifeblood of our resort town and many others just like it throughout America. Without the seasonal workers provided by this program many businesses would be forced to scale back on their services or in some cases actually close their doors for good.” ‘The workforce provided by the H-2A Visa Program is vital to enabling the farmers in Suffolk County to continue to feed our local communities,” said Rob Carpenter, Director of Long Island Farm Bureau after the event. “At every level – from the farms to the halls of Congress – it is critical that everyone understands what an important role this program, and the workforce it provides, plays in our communities and for our small businesses that are the backbone of our towns” “With our busiest season fast approaching, local business owners are worried we won’t have the workforce we need to meet our peak season’s demand,” said Landscape Specialist Gordon Andrews of Hampton Bays ahead of the press conference. “Year after year, we experience the same uncertainty, which hurts the potential growth of our business and our local economy. If we are unable to fill these jobs with the available U.S. workforce, we must be able to fill them immediately through the H-2B program. I thank Congressman Zeldin for being a vocal advocate on this issue.” “As a business owner, the ability to provide for my customers during peak season is reliant on the workforce provided through the H-2B Visa Program,” said John Tortorella of Southampton ahead of the press conference. “In addition to lifting the current H-2B visa cap, there are vital reforms that must be made to the underlying program so business owners like myself, don’t have to worry about having the labor we need season after season. I thank Congressman Zeldin’s office for their open communication on this issue, and urge all Members of Congress to follow in Congressman Zeldin’s footsteps in fighting for long-term reforms and stability for this vital program.”
03.20.2019	WESTHAMPTON BEACH, NY - On Wednesday, March 20, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted Mobile Office Hours at the Westhampton Beach Fire Department. During Mobile Office Hours, Rep. Zeldin met one-on-one and in small group meetings with constituents to discuss the issues most important to them. Constituents interested in participating in a future meeting can contact Congressman Zeldin’s office at (631) 289-1097.
03.20.2019	SHIRLEY, NY - On Wednesday, March 20, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined Commanding General of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Lieutenant General Todd Semonite, New York District Commander Colonel Thomas Asbery and other Army Corps personnel as they surveyed Smith Point County Park following the emergency dredge of Moriches Inlet and the LI Intracoastal Waterway. An upcoming major milestone will be LTG Semonite’s final approval of the Fire Island to Montauk Point (FIMP) project in the coming months. “It has been great working with the Army Corps to secure victories for Long Islanders, including the emergency dredge of Moriches Inlet and the dredge of the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway,” said Congressman Zeldin. “I thank the Army Corps, especially Commanding General Semonite and Colonel Asbery, for their continued hard work and look forward to continuing to work together to improve Long Island’s waterways and maritime infrastructure, especially the upcoming completion of the Fire Island to Montauk Point (FIMP) project.”
03.18.2019	PATCHOGUE, NY - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) once again called on the Department of Homeland Security to raise the H-2B Visa Program cap and reform the H-2A Visa Program to ensure local businesses have the adequate workforce they need ahead of the upcoming peak season. Seasonal visa programs allow employers to supplement their current workforce by hiring foreign workers on a seasonal basis. These foreign workers come to the United States legally and pay taxes filling jobs not already filled by U.S. employees in areas of labor shortage. “Across Suffolk County, there are many businesses, that rely on seasonal workforce visas, and I am committed to finding a long-term solution that provides certainty and stability for the employers who rely on this program,” said Congressman Zeldin. “It is a great problem to have when our local economy has more available jobs than people available to fill the positions, but it is imperative our employers are able to somehow fill their work force legally and immediately. Congress’ most recent funding legislation, which failed to include a long-term solution for the H-2A or H-2B Visa Program, was a missed opportunity. With the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services having already notified employers the 66,000 visa cap has been reached for the second half of the year for H-2B, there was widespread consensus on the need to provide assurances for local businesses as we approach peak season. “It is clear the current H-2B visa cap cannot adequately meet the demands of today's seasonal businesses, and Congress must pursue meaningful H-2A and H-2B reforms that address the shortfalls of the current seasonal visa programs and provide long-term stability and certainty for local employers and businesses.” Whether its voting in favor of H.R. 244 to provide the authority for the DHS Secretary to increase the visa cap or in favor of the returning workers exemption for H-2B in H.R. 2029, the Congressman has shown his continued support of the program and commitment to engaging with Congressional leadership and the administration in an effort to find a long term solution. This year and last year, Congressman Zeldin urged DHS Secretary Nielsen to lift the cap on H-2B visas using the authority he voted to provide the Secretary. Additionally, he cosponsored the Securing America’s Future Act (H.R. 4760), which included reforms for H-2A, which hasn't been reformed since 1986.
03.18.2019	ROCKY POINT, NY - On Sunday, March 17, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the Friends of St. Patrick Annual Rocky Point St. Patrick’s Day Parade alongside several other state and local elected officials.
03.16.2019	MILLER PLACE, NY - On Saturday, March 16, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was a guest speaker at an Eagle Scout Court of Honor for Troop 204 of Miller Place. During the ceremony, Ryan Salvia, Daniel Thompson, Kevin Thompson, and Jonah Yonks received the rank of Eagle, the highest rank in Scouting which requires years of dedication, service and leadership. These scouts truly represent the values of good citizenship and American patriotism.
03.14.2019	PATCHOGUE, NY - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced Stony Brook University’s School of Marine and Atmospheric Sciences has been awarded $434,017 and its College of Engineering and Applied Sciences has been awarded $1,193,776 from the National Science Foundation. “Stony Brook University researchers are pioneering the future of our great nation - whether its helping prepare students for the 21st century workforce through STEM education or tackling the biggest environmental challenges of our time,” said Congressman Lee Zeldin. “By driving these federal tax dollars back to Long Island, these grants will go a long way in helping Stony Brook University and its world class researchers continue their important work right here in the communities it impacts most.” "Understanding climate change requires that we understand where carbon dioxide comes from, and where it goes," said Paul Shepson, Dean of Stony Brook University's School of Marine and Atmospheric Sciences and Director of the Marine Sciences Research Center. "While the oceans used to be in balance with the atmosphere, at the current time, the oceans uptake more CO2 than they re-emit, because of human activity. While phytoplankton convert that oceanic CO2 into organic matter, some of it is recycled back to carbon dioxide by deep-sea microbes. Yet little is still known about these deep-sea microbes and their function. Deploying ODU’s newly-designed deep-sea incubators off the east coast of the United States and using state-of-the-art Raman microspectrometric analyses developed at Stony Brook University, this project will address this fundamental knowledge gap and help us better understand the ocean’s role in mediating the impact of human’s emission of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere." “This research has the potential to impact how math and science is taught in middle school years and ultimately broaden overall participation in STEM in New York state and beyond,” said Fotis Sotiropoulos, Dean, College of Engineering and Applied Sciences. “Our STEM outreach programs demonstrate our commitment to advancing the development of cross-cutting engineering skills among teachers and students from high-need schools. I’m immensely proud of the work being done by Monica Bugallo, faculty director of the WISE Honors program, and all of our faculty and students engaged in this important work.” Created by the U.S. Congress in 1950, the National Science Foundation (NSF) is an agency which promotes the progress of science, advances national health, prosperity, and welfare, and works to secure our national defense. Last Congress, Rep. Zeldin voted in favor of the Consolidated Appropriations Act (H.R. 244), which the President signed into law, providing $7.5 billion for the National Science Foundation (NSF) and $5.3 billion for the DOE Office of Science.
03.14.2019	Op-ed by Congressman Lee Zeldin Kevin from Smithtown is a former NYPD police officer who worked on and around the pile at Ground Zero for close to 12 months. In January of 2018, Kevin was diagnosed with Non Hodgkin’s Diffused Large B Cell Lymphoma and underwent 6 months of chemotherapy, which left him with devastating symptoms that will stay will him for the rest of his life. James Zadroga was another one of the many fearless leaders who stepped up in the wake of 9/11. He was also the first NYPD officer whose death in 2006 was connected to toxic exposure at the World Trade Center site. The James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act was signed into law in 2011 to help our 9/11 first responders. Five years later, the Zadroga Act was permanently reauthorized and included $4.6 billion for the 9/11 Victim Compensation Fund (VCF) over five-years, which was established to provide compensation for the victims of 9/11 and their families, and continues to provide compensation for those suffering from 9/11 related illnesses and their loved ones. First responders who worked on the pile day and night, aiding in the search, rescue and clean up efforts were breathing in toxic debris and ash that are now known to have caused over 50 different types of cancer. However, last month, the Special Master of the 9/11 Victim Compensation Fund issued an alarming report, which stated its funding was insufficient to compensate all claims and the fund would have to make severe cuts to awards across the board. This is unacceptable and regardless of party affiliation, regardless of which district or state you come from, it is imperative legislation to fully fund the VCF is passed and sent to the President immediately to become law so we can ensure these victims receive the compensation they deserve. These include the very men and women who in the face of evil were willing to put it all on the line to help save their fellow Americans, who ran into the towers as everyone ran out. It is unconscionable that time and again they have been forced to plead their case as to why they are worthy of our support. After learning of the across the board cuts to claims, Kevin wrote to me saying, “to give out awards reduced by 70% is a slap in my face and all others that are now suffering.” He’s right. When he was working the pile day and night for months on end, he wasn’t thinking about himself or what this might mean for his future. Kevin was thinking about our nation. In the wake of unimaginable terror, Kevin was there for us - stepping up to the plate to do what had to be done. The idea that now, during his time of need, we would abandon him and renege on our promises appauls me. This past September 11th, 17 years since the attacks, we came together as we always do to remember those who were taken from us on that day. But last year marked an especially harrowing occasion. By the end of the 2018, more people had died from 9/11 related illnesses than were killed on September 11th. That’s one of the most important reasons why Congress must immediately pass the Never Forget the Heroes Act, which will fully fund the 9/11 Victim Compensation Fund and reauthorize it to 2090, ensuring 9/11 victims and their families receive the support they have more than earned. We cannot hesitate in taking action. We cannot hesitate when it comes to keeping our promises to these brave men and women. In honor of them and the families who carry on their memory, Congress must do its job and fully fund the 9/11 Victim Compensation Fund. In the aftermath of 9/11 we vowed we’d never forget, and we’re going to make sure of it. Congressman Zeldin represents New York’s First Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives and an original cosponsor of the Never Forget the Heroes Act of 2019.
03.13.2019	Watch here. WASHINGTON - On March 13, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, questioned Former United States Permanent Representative to NATO Douglas Lute and Former Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs Derek Chollet on Turkey’s acquisition of the Russian S-400 air defense missile system and United States F-35 fighter jet and called on the United States to withhold the delivery of US-made F-35s to Turkey if it acquires the S-400.
03.13.2019	Watch Rep. Zeldin’s remarks here. WASHINGTON - On March 13, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke on the House floor urging his colleagues in Congress to take action in reinstating the full State and Local Tax (SALT) deduction and also reiterated his call for state and local officials to lower the state and local taxes that have made the SALT deduction for New Yorkers so high. Congressman Zeldin is working with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to reinstate the SALT deduction, including Representatives Josh Gottheimer (D, NJ-5), Peter King (R, NY-2), Tom Suozzi (D, NY-3) and Nita Lowey (D, NY-17) and has cosponsored multiple pieces of legislation, including H.R. 257 and H.R. 188, to do so.
03.13.2019	Watch here. WASHINGTON - On March 12, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Member of the House Committee on Financial Services, questioned Wells Fargo Chief Executive Officer Timothy J. Sloan regarding (1) a report by the New York Times that stated Wells Fargo sent a letter to customers impersonating a former employee stating she endorsed another employee’s credentials and (2) the company’s wronging of active duty military customers by not limiting interest rates at 6% as required by law, failing to tell courts that the borrowers were active-duty when seeking evictions, and repossessing service members’ vehicles without court orders.
03.12.2019	WASHINGTON - On Tuesday, March 12, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with America’s VetDogs of Smithtown, New York’s President & CEO John Miller, Army veteran Tyler McGibbon, his service dog Trooper, Veterans Relations Liaison Navy veteran Joe Worley and his service dog Galaxie. America’s VetDogs is dedicated to providing enhanced mobility and renewed independence for first responders, active-duty service members and veterans with disabilities through their service dog program. President George H.W. Bush’s service dog Sully was trained at America’s VetDogs and now serves our nation’s veterans at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Maryland.
03.08.2019	Watch Rep. Zeldin’s opening remarks here. WASHINGTON - On Thursday, March 7, 2019, Representatives Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Max Rose (D, NY-11), Carolyn Maloney (D, NY-12), Peter King (R, NY-2) and Jerry Nadler (D, NY-10) led a bipartisan Special Order urging Congress to immediately pass Reps. C. Maloney, Nadler and King’s Never Forget the Heroes Act (H.R.1327). In light of the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund report last month, which stated the fund would make severe cuts to claims across the board due to budget shortfalls, the Never Forget the Heroes Act would fully fund and extend the Victim Compensation Fund’s authorization through 2090. The Special Order was broadcasted live on Rep. Zeldin’s Facebook page here. Congressman Zeldin also highlighted two constituents from New York’s First Congressional District who have been personally affected by Congress’ failure to fully fund and extend the authorization of the 9/11 Victim Compensation Fund. Hear their stories here.
03.07.2019	Watch here. WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, and one of two Jewish Republicans in Congress, issued the following statement after voting NO on H. Res. 183: “If a Republican Member was pushing the anti-Semitism that Rep. Omar keeps peddling, this resolution would name names, and be solely, emphatically focused on anti-Semitism and that member would be removed from their committee assignments. The double standard motivating this decision by the Speaker and the moral equivalency filling this watered down text is spineless and disgusting.” Congressman Zeldin also posted this tweet. ###
03.07.2019	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, and one of two Jewish Republicans in Congress, issued the following statement after House Democratic Whip Jim Clyburn (D, SC-6) minimized the impact of the Holocaust in an interview in an effort to defend Rep. Ilhan Omar’s (D, MN-5) continued anti-Semitic comments: “Whip Clyburn’s comments are disgusting, making light of the Holocaust and minimizing its massive importance and impact on victims’ families, survivors, and the world. 6 million Jews and millions of others were murdered at the hands of Adolf Hitler and the Nazis. Never minimize and #NeverForget” Rep. Zeldin posted the following tweet here: “This is disgusting @WhipClyburn, spitting on graves, making light of the Holocaust & minimizing its massive importance/impact on victims' families & the world. 6 MILLION Jews & MILLIONS of others were MURDERED! #NeverForget"
03.07.2019	WASHINGTON - Today, Representatives Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) and Joe Courtney (D, CT-2) were joined by Rosa DeLauro (D, CT-3), Eliot Engel (D, NY-16), Grace Meng (D, NY-6), John Larson (D, CT-1), Tom Suozzi (D, NY-3), Antonio Delgado (D, NY-19), Peter King (R, NY-2) James Langevin (D, RI-2) and Kathleen Rice (D, NY-4) to introduce the Plum Island Preservation Act of 2019, which would repeal the law mandating the sale of Plum Island and require any further use of the island be for conservation, education and/or research purposes. Over the last 4 years, the House passed language to preserve Plum Island unanimously 4 times, but the legislation died due to inaction by the Senate. A PDF of the Plum Island Preservation Act of 2019 is available here. Rep. Zeldin said, “Not only does Plum Island offer Long Island a diverse wildlife and ecosystem and critical habitat for migratory birds, marine mammals, and rare plants, but it is also an essential cultural and historical resource with recorded history dating back to the 1700s. The current law, which mandates the sale of the island to the highest bidder, is the wrong path forward, because it does not provide for public access and permanent preservation of the island, or the continued use of the research infrastructure. The state of the art research facility at Plum Island must not go to waste, and preserving this island’s natural beauty while maintaining a research mission will continue to provide important economic and environmental benefits to Long Island. I thank Congressman Courtney for his bipartisan leadership on this issue and continued support of my Long Island colleagues, Representatives King, Rice and Suozzi.” Rep. Courtney said, “Today’s introduction of a comprehensive, bipartisan bill to secure Plum Island’s future viability and environmental protection status is an exciting development. Looking back over the last two Congresses, Representative Zeldin and I have been able to pass legislation seeking to protect Plum Island on a bipartisan basis, and at times with unanimous support. This year’s bill is a qualitative step forward from our past work on this issue – it enhances our efforts even further with a real plan for historic preservation, and the full repeal of the federal statute requiring the sale of the island. With the new majority, I think the prospects are very good for this bill to succeed, as it has in the past, and for Plum Island’s protected status to be secured for generations to come. I’m grateful for Congressman Zeldin’s teamwork with me on this issue, as well as for the continued support of my colleague from Connecticut, Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro.”
03.06.2019	WASHINGTON - On Wednesday, March 6, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) co-Chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, and one of only two Jewish Republican Members of Congress, renewed his call on the House floor for immediate passage of his House Resolution 72 that he introduced with Representatives Ted Budd (R, NC-13) and Elise Stefanik (R, NY-21) to condemn anti-Israel and anti-Semitic hatred infiltrating U.S. politics, college campuses and Congress. Since its introduction, H. Res. 72 has garnered the support of 100 Members of Congress, including Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy, Republican Whip Steve Scalise, and Republican Conference Chair Liz Cheney. Rep. Zeldin also reiterated his call for Speaker Nancy Pelosi to remove Rep. Ilhan Omar from the House Foreign Affairs Committee. In addition to her anti-Semitic comments, anti-Israel positions, and support for the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement, Rep. Omar has also, for example, requested leniency for ISIS fighters, blamed U.S. foreign policy for the al-Shabaab attack in Kenya, and props up Nicolas Maduro in Venezuela. Congressman Zeldin also posted the following tweet here: “On the day @SpeakerPelosi once promised we'd vote to condemn Rep Omar's latest anti-Semitic statement, I called on House Dem Leadership to #PassHRes72 to condemn anti-Semitism @ home & around the world & remove Rep Omar from @HouseForeign”
03.06.2019	WASHINGTON - On Tuesday, March 5, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with representatives of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, including Commander of the New York District of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Colonel Thomas Asbery, to receive an update on Long Island Army Corps of Engineers’ NY-1 work, including the dredging of Moriches Inlet and the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway as well as the next steps of the Fire Island to Montauk Point (FIMP) project and other vital NY-1 maritime infrastructure initiatives.
03.04.2019	WASHINGTON - In January, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), co-Chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, and one of only two Jewish Republican Members of Congress, introduced House Resolution 72 to condemn anti-Israel and anti-Semitic hatred infiltrating U.S. politics, college campuses and the halls of Congress. Now cosponsored by 100 Representatives, including Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy, Republican Whip Steve Scalise, and Republican Conference Chair Liz Cheney, Congressman Zeldin today urged House Democratic Leadership to bring H. Res. 72 to the floor for a vote this week following the latest anti-Semitic trope of Representative Ilhan Omar and reporting this afternoon that House Democrats will bring a resolution condemning those statements of Rep. Omar:“Rep. Omar’s continued peddling of anti-Semitic trope underscores the urgency to take action. I commend my colleagues who have spoken out against her unrelenting, unabashed anti-Semitic attacks. Rep. Omar knows exactly what she is saying and doing and has been hurling these attacks for years. The hatred that regularly pours out of her heart is a cause of the underlying problem with anti-Semitism in the world and absolutely not the answer to it. It’s encouraging House Democratic Leadership will bring a resolution to the floor this week condemning these statements, and with 100 cosponsors already, that resolution should be H. Res. 72, condemning the anti-Semitic and anti-Israel hate rising in the United States and around the world. I also once again will reiterate that Rep. Omar should be removed from the House Foreign Affairs Committee and shouldn't have been appointed to this important position in the first place. Aside from her pro-BDS, anti-Israel and anti-Semitic positions and rhetoric, she has also requested leniency for ISIS fighters, blamed U.S. foreign policy for the al-Shabaab attack in Kenya, and has propped up Maduro in Venezuela. These positions should not be elevated and empowered to oversee U.S. foreign policy.” Rep. Zeldin issued the following tweet, here: “House Dem Leadership should bring H.Res.72 to a vote to condemn the anti-Israel & anti-Semitic hate infiltrating US politics, college campuses & the halls of Congress. Now has 100 cosponsors.” - @RepLeeZeldin Following the introduction of H. Res. 72., original cosponsors of the resolution, Reps. Elise Stefanik and Ted Budd, issued the following statements: Congressman Budd said, “The rise of anti-semitism across our country is extremely concerning. College campuses are being inundated with anti-Israel rhetoric, and what used to be a fringe position is now becoming mainstream. We have current members of the House who’ve expressed their support for the BDS movement - which hides behind the notion that ‘we’re not boycotting the people, we’re just boycotting the current government.’ But this notion is absurd and when you try to actively delegitimize the world’s only Jewish state, Congress should respond by condemning it. When a sitting member of the House accuses supporters of Israel of having ‘dual loyalty’ - a known anti-Semitic dog whistle, we need to call it out for what it is. I’m proud to lead this legislation with Mr. Zeldin and Ms. Stefanik. It won’t, itself, rid of the hatred many have towards Jewish people here and around the world, but it will show the country that the vast majority of their representatives condemn anti-semitism in any form.” Congresswoman Stefanik said, “Anti-Semitism has no place in Congress, in the United States of America, and around the world. Those who spew hatred on the Jewish community should be held accountable and condemned. I am proud to cosponsor this resolution, and I will continue speaking out in order to eradicate the re-emergence of this unacceptable and discriminatory speech and behavior.” A PDF of the resolution is available here. Full text of the resolution is as follows: A resolution rejecting anti-Israel and anti-Semitic hatred in the United States and around the world. Whereas, in 2018, Minister Louis Farrakhan said, “So when they talk about Farrakhan, call me a hater, you do what they do, call me an anti-Semite. Stop it, I’m anti-Termite.” Whereas, in 2018, Farrakhan said, “Satanic Jews have infected the whole world with poison and deceit.” Whereas, on March 11, 1984, Farrakhan said about Adolf Hitler of Nazi Germany who was responsible for murdering 6 million Jewish people and millions of others, “He was a very great man.'' Whereas, activist Tamika Mallory called Minister Louis Farrakhan the “greatest of all time,” and her fellow organizer, Linda Sarsour said, “Only Jews... are ones that condone violence against Arabs and are cool with mosques being attacked.” Whereas, throughout the years, current Members of Congress have met with, posed for pictures with, and have otherwise embraced Farrakhan. Whereas, Representative Rashida Tlaib, who supports the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement, has been asked by the Anti-Defamation League (ADL), a Jewish non-governmental organization that fights hate crimes, to explain why she invited Abbas Hamideh to attend her swearing in events, who said in 2016 “Israel does not have a right to exist. The terrorist entity is illegal and has no basis to exist other than a delusional ISIS like ideology.” Whereas, Abbas Hamideh also stated in 2019, “I’m willing to go back to my country #Palestine if the Zionist terrorists go back to Poland. Deal? Let’s get that ball rolling ASAP. Get off Twitter and let’s make that happen.” Whereas, Representative Tlaib, who stated on January 6, 2019, of Americans who support Israel, “They forgot what country they represent.” Whereas, on November 16, 2012, Representative Ilhan Omar, who also supports the BDS movement, tweeted, “Israel has hypnotized the world, may Allah awaken the people and help them see the evil doings of Israel.” Whereas, it is the policy of the United States to oppose restrictive trade practices or boycotts fostered or imposed by any foreign country against other countries friendly to the United States or against any United States person. Whereas, Omar Barghouti, founder of the BDS movement said, “We are witnessing the rapid demise of Zionism, and nothing can be done to save it, for Zionism is intent on killing itself. I, for one, support euthanasia.” He also stated, “Many of the methods of collective and individual ‘punishment’ meted out to Palestinian civilians at the hands of young, racist, often sadistic and ever impervious Israeli soldiers... are reminiscent of common Nazi practices against the Jews.” Whereas, as a result of the BDS movement, Jewish students on college campuses across America have been exposed to rampant anti-Semitism. For example, at New York University, after the student government passed a resolution supporting BDS, the Bronfman Center for Jewish Life was temporarily closed in response to threatening Twitter posts by a student who expressed “a desire for Zionists to die.” Other examples include: a University of Michigan professor refused to write a letter of recommendation for a qualified student solely because she was seeking to study abroad in Israel; a Students for Justice in Palestine co-founder and University of California, Berkeley, professor spoke at a national conference and shared an anti-Semitic meme of an Orthodox Jewish person in his presentation; at Warren Wilson College, an invited speaker stated, "Jews are doing the same thing to the Palestinians as the Nazis did to the Jews”; A Yik Yak posting at the University of California read “Gas them, burn them, and dismantle their power structure. Humanity cannot progress with the parasitic Jew”; and more globally, University of Durban in South Africa called for the expulsion of Jewish students who did not support BDS at the University. Whereas, on May 13, 2017, white supremacist Richard Spencer led a rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, where hundreds of his followers chanted, “Jews will not replace us.” This extremist demonstration turned violent when a neo-Nazi sympathizer drove a vehicle into a crowd, which resulted in the death of one peaceful demonstrator. Two Virginia State police officers died in the line of duty that day as well. Whereas, on October 27, 2018, white supremacist Robert Bowers murdered eleven people and injured seven at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, including four police officers. While in custody and receiving medical treatment, Bowers told a SWAT officer he “wanted all Jews to die.” Whereas, there has also been a significant amount of other anti-Israel and anti-Semitic hatred in the United States and around the world that must be most strongly condemned. Whereas, the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance, of which the United States is a member, adopted a “working definition” of anti-Semitism as “a certain perception of Jews, which may be expressed as hatred toward Jews. Rhetorical and physical manifestations of anti semitism are directed toward Jewish or non-Jewish individuals and/or their property, toward Jewish community institutions and religious facilities.” Whereas, contemporary examples of anti-Semitism in public life, the media, schools, the workplace, and in the religious sphere include denying the Jewish people their right to self-determination. Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That it is the sense of the House of Representatives that— (1) That the House of Representatives rejects anti-Israel and anti-Semitic hatred in the United States and around the world.
03.01.2019	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, issued the following statement after the release of the United Nations Human Rights Council’s report investigating the violence along the Gaza-Israel border from March 30, 2018, to December 31, 2018: “This one-sided, highly biased and woefully inaccurate report fails to take into account key facts; most evidently, Hamas’ provocation and orchestration of this violence, its purposeful destabilization of order along the border and its continued incursions into Israel’s sovereign soil, including the launching of over 10,000 rockets and mortars on Israeli towns and villages and the dozens of tunnels enabling their death squads since the Israeli withdrawal from Gaza. These overt acts of violence have left Israel with no choice but to protect its border with the use of force. Israel has an inherent right of self-defense and will without hesitation act to protect innocent Israeli citizens who live near the border with Gaza. Like every other sovereign nation, Israel has the right to defend itself against a terrorist organization that refuses to recognize its very right to exist, and, as one of our nation’s greatest allies, we must stand shoulder to shoulder with Israel as they safeguard their innocent citizens against violence at the hands of Hamas.”
02.28.2019	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, was appointed by Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy (R, CA-23) to continue serving on the United States Holocaust Memorial Council, which was established by Congress in 1980 to lead the nation in commemorating the Holocaust. The United States Holocaust Memorial Council consists of 55 members appointed by the President, five members from the U.S. House of Representatives, five members from the U.S. Senate, and three members from the Departments of Education, Interior, and State. Congressman Zeldin was first appointed to serve on the Council by former House Speaker Paul Ryan in 2017. “We must never forget the innocent lives of 6 million Jews and millions of others lost during one of the darkest periods of our history,” said Congressman Zeldin. “Their memories and the stories of those who survived the Holocaust must live on as part of our vow to never allow this darkest form of evil to ever rise again. Never again in any form can we allow this horribly unjust ending of the innocent lives of so many children, women and men, and it is in an honor to continue to serve on the US Holocaust Memorial Council to help champion this mission.”
02.28.2019	PATCHOGUE, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced the completion of improvements at the Montauk Post Office following residents’ concerns regarding mail issues in its service area. In December of 2018, Congressman Zeldin was contacted by Montauk residents regarding the local post office’s mail and package delivery service at which point he contacted the Long Island District Post Office to advocate on behalf of his constituents. In their response, the Long Island District Post Office cited the construction of a new ramp that would allow improved access to postal vehicles and more efficient loading and unloading of parcels. This month, the Montauk Post Office completed this ramp and began sorting the parcels at offsite locations and delivering them to Montauk presorted which in turn will lessen the overall sorting and delivery time. New parcel lockers have been ordered, and once installed at the Montauk Post Office will shorten lines by allowing PO Box customers to go directly to their parcel lockers instead of waiting for a clerk’s assistance. “The USPS provides a critical service to Long Islanders, especially those in less accessible communities, such as Montauk, and it is critical that local residents receive the postal services they need,” said Congressman Zeldin. “These improvements are a step in the right direction, and as the USPS Long Island Regional Management team continues their efforts to improve service, I’ll be working hard to ensure they see improved delivery time and accuracy.” Just this Congress, Congressman Zeldin has supported legislation that would improve the quality of the United States Postal Service nationwide, including: H.Res.54 to ensure the continuation of the USPS’ six day delivery service; H.Res.23 to ensure that the USPS continue door delivery for all residents and businesses; and H.Res.33 to ensure that the USPS will not be subject to privatization.
02.27.2019	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Natural Resources Management Act (S. 47) yesterday, which now heads to the President’s desk to become law, permanently reauthorizing the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF): “In Suffolk County alone, the Land and Water Conservation Fund has provided funding for over 90 projects, supporting public access, fishing, hunting, recreation and our environment without taking a dime of taxpayer money. On Long Island, our coastal economy is a vital component of our overall economy, and clean water, land and air are essential priorities all protected by the LWCF. I’ve been proud to help lead the fight to permanently reauthorize this important fund in the House, and with a permanent reauthorization and full funding of this program heading to the President’s desk, this is a huge win for our community and communities across the country.” The Natural Resources Management Act (S. 47), which includes a permanent reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund, passed the Senate on February 12, 2019, by a vote of 92-8 and the House on February 26, 2019, by a vote of 362-62. The Land and Water Conservation Fund protects parks, trails, wildlife refuges and recreation areas at the federal, state and local level. For more than 50 years, it has provided critical funding for land and water conservation projects, access to recreation, including hunting and fishing, and the continued historic preservation of our nation’s iconic landmarks from coast-to-coast. LWCF does not use any taxpayer dollars – it is funded using a small portion of revenues from offshore oil and gas royalty payments. Outdoor recreation, conservation and historic preservation activities contribute more than $887 billion annually to the U.S. economy, supporting 7.6 million jobs. Since the creation of LWCF, Suffolk County has received $24 million in funding, which has helped fund over 90 projects, including: South Jamesport Boat Launching Site Hampton Bays Softball Field Wildwood State Park Beach Building in Wading River Montauk State Park Showers and Comfort Station Acquisition of Havens Beach in Sag Harbor Shoreline Protection in Orient Beach State Park Wertheim National Wildlife Refuge in Shirley
02.26.2019	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after voting this evening against House Joint Resolution 46: "The President's emergency declaration was not Plan A. Plan A was for Congress to do its job and clearly and specifically allocate the resources we need to safeguard our country. Unfortunately, some Members of Congress became suddenly opposed to increased funding to harden our physical border barrier just because they and their base hate the President. It's disappointing many want to play political games instead of govern. It is important our country does a better job combating illegal immigration, transnational gangs like MS-13, drug trafficking, human trafficking, and arms trafficking. The Executive Branch does have some flexibility with regards to this particular emergency declaration, if the President stays within Congressional notification requirements and existing authorities related to certain pots of money. This is President Trump's 4th emergency declaration. President Barack Obama, for example, issued 10 and President George W. Bush issued 11. I look forward to learning even more about where most specifically this funding will be coming from to determine whether or not the programming of funds are legally permissible uses of discretionary spending authorities that exist. With that being said, it is a near certainty this decision will ultimately be ruled on by the Supreme Court."
02.17.2019	MUNICH - On Saturday, February 16, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, met with Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic (pictured far left) regarding the execution of NY-1 residents, Ylli, Agron and Mehmet Bytyqi, who resided in Hampton Bays, New York. Congressman Zeldin, Senator Roger Wicker (R, MS), and House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Eliot Engel (D, NY-16) were joined at this important meeting at the Munich Security Conference in Munich, Germany, by a bipartisan delegation of Republican and Democrat Members of the United States House of Representatives and United States Senate. In July 1999, the three brothers, Ylli, 25 years old, Agron, 23 years old, and Mehmet Bytyqi, 21 years old, went overseas towards the end of the Kosovo war and were arrested when they accidentally crossed into Serbian-controlled territory. The brothers were arrested by Serbian authorities for illegally entering the country, and were brutally executed shortly after. While Serbian authorities have investigated the deaths of the brothers, there have been no charges brought against those responsible for these murders despite the identification of both evidence and suspects. Since taking office in 2015, Congressman Zeldin has been advocating for the Government of Serbia, and all relevant parties, to hold accountable those responsible for the executions of the Bytyqi brothers. ###
02.16.2019	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement following the release yesterday of the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund report which stated the fund will need to make severe cuts to compensation awards due to a budget shortfall. Congressman Zeldin has teamed up with colleagues and advocates to champion the Never Forget the Heroes Act, which would permanently extend the 9/11 Victim Compensation Fund. “This report is extremely troubling and its findings that it must make severe cuts to awards across the board is completely unacceptable. Regardless of political party, district or state you come from, it is imperative we immediately pass legislation that fully funds the 9/11 Victim Compensation Fund, which covers all Americans lost on 9/11 and those who stepped up in the wake of the attacks. It covers those who worked on the pile day and night, aiding in the search, rescue and clean up efforts who were breathing in toxic debris and ash that are now known to have caused over 50 different types of cancer. This isn’t just a New York issue and this isn’t a Democratic or Republican Party platform or political football. This is a responsibility we all shoulder as Americans first and foremost - it’s the spirit of our nation, and it’s who we are as a people. These were the very men and women who in the face of evil were willing to put it all on the line to help save their fellow Americans, who ran into the towers as everyone ran out.” In the report, the Special Master of the Victim Compensation Fund announced that due to the insufficient funds, the VCF will implement a reduction of awards for claimants across the board, applying a percentage reduction to all awards. All pending claims will be subject to a reduction.
02.14.2019	PATCHOGUE, NY - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement following Amazon’s decision to withdraw from their plans to build their second headquarters in Long Island City: “New York’s First Congressional District would be happy to be Amazon’s Valentine today and take these 25,000 great paying jobs! New York wouldn’t even need all the subsides if we didn’t have one of the worst business climates in the United States. We must level the playing field, reduce taxes and burdensome regulations, stop picking winners and losers and much will improve.” Congressman Zeldin also posted a tweet on the topic here.
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON - On Thursday, February 14, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) and Congressman Peter King (R, NY-2) urged Suffolk County Sheriff Errol Toulon and Nassau County Sheriff Vera Fludd to (1) comply with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detainer requests, notifying ICE ideally 48 hours in advance of releasing an individual unlawfully in the United States who is arrested on criminal charges, allowing ICE to take custody of the arrestee and preventing them from being released into the community, (2) maintain ICE’s presence within local correctional facilities, and (3) engage in 287(g) cooperative agreements in order to improve communication between local law enforcement and ICE. A PDF version of the letter is available here. The full text of the letter is as follows: Dear Sheriff Toulon and Sheriff Fludd, We write today with deep concerns over the recent Appellate Division of the New York State Supreme Court ruling that it was unlawful for local authorities to arrest individuals based on Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detainer requests. The decision in People ex rel. Wells v. DeMarco will have negative local and statewide effects on public safety as well as the development of “sanctuary city” policies. It is critical that Suffolk and Nassau Counties reinstate the policy to respond to all ICE detainers judiciously and maintain ICE’s presence in correctional facilities. Additionally, we urge local law enforcement to enter into lawful 287(g) cooperative agreements with ICE. In People ex rel. Wells v. DeMarco, Susai Francis, an Indian national living on Long Island overstayed his visa in the 1990s. In 2016, Francis was charged in Suffolk County with misdemeanor criminal contempt for violating a family court order of protection.Then again, in 2017, Francis was arrested in Nassau County for driving under the influence. ICE issued both a detainer and arrest warrant to Nassau County Police Department in an orderly manner pursuant to sections 236 and 287 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 USC 1226,1357). The Supreme Court determined that the Suffolk County Sheriff did not have the authority to make the arrest under state statute and the ICE detainer extending Francis’s detention violated the Fourth Amendment without a judicial warrant. This decision also found former Suffolk County Sheriff Vincent DeMarco’s policy, which mandated that local law enforcement comply with ICE detainer requests to hold illegal immigrants with criminal charges for 48 hours, violates state law. Federal statutes allow States and localities to cooperate with ICE and use detainers to aid federal immigration enforcement efforts when there is probable cause to believe a prisoner is a removable alien. ICE is authorized by Congress to issue administrative immigration warrants, as the agency currently does across the country. In fact, the INA specifically authorizes state and local law enforcement agencies to enter into a partnership under 287(g) agreements with ICE. Furthermore, cooperation with ICE detainers is consistent with New York state law because New York State officers are authorized to make arrests without a warrant for criminal violations of the federal Immigration and Nationality Act. Since this decision last year, Nassau County officials have undertaken a review of ICE’s presence at the county’s jail in East Meadow and the Suffolk County Sheriff’s Department directed local law enforcement to end the practice of honoring all requested ICE detainers. In 2017, ICE issued nearly 800 detainer requests to the Nassau and Suffolk County Sheriffs. From January to mid-April of 2018, ICE found that the New York Police Department and New York Department of Correction collectively ignored 440 detainer notices. Within that short period of time, 40 of those individuals released from custody subsequently committed more crimes and were arrested again.This decision will drastically reverse the progress made on combating gang violence and targeting illegal immigrants who commit serious crimes. The cooperation ICE receives from other law enforcement agencies is critical to its ability to identify and arrest dangerous aliens residing in our communities. John Sandweg, former Acting Director of ICE in the Obama administration, said this decision “weakens public safety for everyone in the U.S.” and that “there needs to be some level of cooperation that works between sanctuary cities and ICE. Otherwise, nobody wins.” The acting field office director for ICE Enforcement and Removal Operations in New York stated, “Simply put, the politics and rhetoric in this city are putting its own communities at an unnecessary risk." Without assistance from local law enforcement, ICE will be unable to target criminal illegal aliens in Long Island. Another case pending in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York, Orellana Castaneda v. County of Suffolk, will present similar questions about the legality of holding individuals in response to ICE detainers. This decision by the Appellate Division of the New York State Supreme Court will set a dangerous precedent for sanctuary jurisdictions to legally deny compliance with ICE officials. Sanctuary policies that allow criminal illegal immigrants to evade justice should be denounced. That is why we ask that Suffolk and Nassau County honor all ICE detainer requests to prevent individuals who have committed crimes from being released into local communities where it would be more difficult for ICE to take custody of them. We encourage local correctional facilities to provide adequate notification of criminal alien releases to ICE and engage in 287(g) cooperative agreements in order to improve communication between local law enforcement and ICE. At a time when immigration is at the forefront of national debate, we cannot waver on our duty to protect the citizens in our community.
02.13.2019	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) and Congressman Ted Lieu (D, CA-33) were joined by nine Members of Congress in demanding the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) suspend dog testing given its costs, animal welfare concerns, opposition from veterans and available alternatives. “This research is cruel, unnecessary and inefficient. Though in theory the studies are supposed to help people who have endured serious combat injuries, VA experts have noted that even the most promising animal research rarely applies to people,” Rep. Zeldin said. “Despite widespread disapproval from Congress and veterans organizations, the VA has continued these horrific experiments. It is clear that even the VA has legitimate concerns regarding its own dog testing program. The VA must suspend these experiments until their independent evaluation is complete.” “Repeatedly, we’ve seen that experiments on dogs are often unnecessary, wasteful and cruel,” Rep. Lieu said. “The VA should make every effort to help and support our Veterans, and using ineffective animal testing is both painful for dogs and a waste of valuable resources. In fact, the VA in my district in Los Angeles discontinued dog testing that required breeding dogs to suffer from narcolepsy. I hope that the VA will give the same consideration to inhumane testing practices elsewhere. At a minimum, the VA should suspend dog testing while this study on its effectiveness is under way.” A signed pdf of the letter is available here. Full text of the letter is as follows: Dear Secretary Wilkie, We were troubled to read your recent statements in support of the Veterans Affairs (VA)’s controversial dog testing program given its costs, animal welfare concerns, opposition from veterans, and opposition from veterans. Clearly, the VA agrees that there are legitimate concerns being raised, so much so that it has commissioned a $1.3 million study of the program by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. The evaluation, “Assessment of the Care and Use of Dogs in Research Funded by or Conducted at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs,” is scheduled to produce two reports and be completed “in mid-2020.” While the VA awaits the results of this independent evaluation of the necessity of the agency’s dog testing, we request that the VA suspend all ongoing dog testing and postpone the review and approval of any new projects until the results of the National Academies study are published. As you are aware, the VA has already canceled several invasive dog studies that it initially approved after a secondary review revealed the availability of alternatives or that the work was otherwise unnecessary. We believe that the National Academies will find this to be the case for other current VA dog experiments as well. In the meantime, it would be inappropriate to use taxpayers’ money, dogs, and other VA resources for research that may ultimately be deemed wasteful and scientifically unjustifiable. ###
02.13.2019	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after reintroducing the Protecting Our Communities from Gang Violence Act (H.R. 1106), legislation that revokes the naturalization for those involved in gang activity prior to or within 10 years of becoming naturalized: “Our community has witnessed the indiscriminate brutality of gang violence first-hand, and every level of government has a role to play in combating the rise of MS-13 and other gangs in our communities. The federal government bears the responsibility of cracking down on the aspects of our nation’s broken immigration system that have allowed gangs to infiltrate our communities and take hold. That’s why I’ve introduced legislation that would crack down on naturalized citizens involved in gang activity prior to or within 10 years of becoming naturalized. Our nation has a rich immigrant history, one that has shaped the nation we are today. We must continue this rich heritage, ensuring those coming to our nation are here to build our communities up, not tear them apart.” Reps. Peter King (R, NY-2), Mark Meadows (R, NC-11) and Mo Brooks (R, AL-5) are original cosponsors of this legislation.
02.13.2019	PATCHOGUE, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after New York Police Department (NYPD) Detective Brian Simonsen of Calverton, New York, passed away last night after being shot in the line of duty, while responding to a burglary: “The passing of NYPD Detective and NY-1 resident Brian Simonsen is a tragic reminder of the dangers our local law enforcement officers face each and every day, their commitment to putting the safety of our communities above their own and the sacrifice of their families and loved ones. Detective Simonsen dedicated his life to protecting ours, and we are forever indebted to his service and the heroic actions of all our men and women in blue.”
02.08.2019	WASHINGTON - On Wednesday, February 6, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Committee on Financial Services, met in his Capitol Hill office with Chair of the Federal Reserve Jerome Powell to discuss our nation’s monetary policy and economy.
02.08.2019	PATCHOGUE, NY - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) awarded $2,115,785 in Continuum of Care grants to local homeless assistance programs across New York’s First Congressional District, which help individuals and families experiencing homelessness, particularly those living in places not meant for habitation, located in sheltering programs, or at imminent risk of becoming homeless. “From our nation’s veterans to our communities’ senior citizens to others just trying to get by, there are so many critical local organizations that help our most vulnerable populations, and it is vital that we ensure they have the support they need to continue their important work,” said Congressman Zeldin. “These grants inject funding directly into the heart of our communities through these local organizations, making a real and noticeable difference on the ground for our neighbors in need.” The over $2.1 million in grants included: $1,379,195 for Concern for Independent Living of Medford; $405,043 for Options for Community Living of Smithtown; $178,136 for Suffolk County Department of Social Services / Beacon House of Ronkonkoma $86,313 for Association for Mental Health and Wellness of Ronkonkoma $67,098 for Transitions Services of New York for Long Island of Brentwood Last Congress, Congressman Zeldin advocated for and helped pass $2.38 billion in funding for the Department of Housing and Urban Development Homeless Assistance Grants Program, which was $133 million over the President’s original request.
02.07.2019	STONY BROOK, NY - On Saturday, February 2, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was a guest speaker at the Annual Bay Scallop Bowl, an ocean science academic competition during which 12 teams from across New York compete to win a place at the National Ocean Sciences Bowl in Boulder, Colorado. During his remarks at Stony Brook University, Congressman Zeldin spoke about several local environmental priorities. Two time defending champion Mount Sinai finished second in this year’s competition.
02.07.2019	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) and Congressman Scott Perry (R, PA-10) have secured the declassification of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) textbook report. On August 6, 2018, Reps. Zeldin and Perry requested a Mandatory Declassification Review of the Government Accountability Office’s (GAO) UNRWA textbook report, following the investigation of Palestinian Authority (PA) textbooks used by UNRWA for teaching school children in the West Bank and Gaza. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “The declassification of the UNRWA textbook report proves to the American people what we have known all along - the UNRWA textbook initiative is a sham. Supplementary material purchased using U.S. tax dollars to counter the anti-Semitic and anti-Israel bias injected by the PA, is being rejected and not utilized on the ground. It is unacceptable the textbooks that are used delegitimize Israel and demonize the Jewish people, it is unacceptable this program attempts to engrain this hatred in the hearts of children, it is unacceptable American’s hard earned money went towards its funding and its unacceptable the State Department lied to Congress about these very realities. We must ensure funding for UNRWA remains frozen while this and other important issues remain uncorrected, and, going forward, employ greater, accurate oversight and accountability internally within the State Department as well as over these foreign assistance programs ensuring those utilizing U.S. funding are aligned with our nation’s values.” Congressman Scott Perry said, “The declassification of this report is a win for government transparency and the American public. The UNRWA textbook report sheds light on how misreporting from the Department of State directly interfered with the ability of the US Congress to conduct its constitutionally vested oversight. The failures of the State Department and UNRWA allowed systematic anti-Semitic and anti-Israel ideas to flourish in UNRWA schools in the West Bank and Gaza. The harsh reality is that the American taxpayers were unknowingly funding this systematic hatred because key information was withheld from the American public – including my constituents.” Some important items of note: Textbook content in UNRWA schools does not mention Israel or Judaism and includes regional maps that exclude Israel and content that incites violence; Improper content has included, for example, a math problem, using the number of Palestinian casualties in the first and second intifadas numerically; The Palestinian Authority (PA) controls the content in UNRWA textbooks and refuses to make changes; From 2015 to 2017, the U.S. provided $243 million in educational assistance through the State Department and USAID of which UNRWA currently uses to purchase PA approved English language textbooks in UNRWA schools; UNRWA has over 370 schools in the West Bank and Gaza serving over 300,000 children; When UNRWA developed complementary teaching materials and seminars to address the concerning content following three textbook reviews, some staff refused to attend training and workshops and utilize the supplementary material, which countered anti-Israel, anti-Semitic content; The GAO report concluded that Congress has been unable to fully assess the nature and extent of the material in PA textbooks because of the State Department’s misleading reports to Congress. The full text of the report can be found here.
02.06.2019	SMITHTOWN, NY - On Tuesday, February 5, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted a Coffee With Your Congressman Town Hall at the Millennium Diner in Smithtown. During the event, Rep. Zeldin answered questions from constituents and took part in a substantive discussion regarding a variety of issues affecting our country and New York’s First Congressional District. Throughout the year, Rep. Zeldin also hosts many other events as well, including Lunch With Lee, Pizza and Policy, Mobile Office Hours, and hundreds of one-on-one and small group meetings with constituents. NY-1 residents wishing to participate in a future meeting can contact Congressman Zeldin’s office at (631) 289-1097.
02.06.2019	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus issued the following statement after Secretary of State Mike Pompeo appointed Elan Carr as Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism: “As we witness the rise of anti-Semitism at home and around the world, the appointment of this position is perhaps more vital now than ever. As an anti-terrorism expert and champion of the Jewish people, Elan Carr has garnered the reputation as a fierce opponent of anti-Semitism in every form, and I look forward to working with him to extinguish this hatred wherever it may hide. I have known Elan for several years and while there were many amazing candidates for this urgently needed position, he is certainly a most exceptional choice.”
02.05.2019	WASHINGTON - Tonight, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after President Trump’s State of the Union address: “This evening, President Trump highlighted our country’s important accomplishments and the opportunities we have as leaders of our exceptional nation, but also the many challenges that still lie ahead. In Congress, I have always been willing to work with absolutely anyone to move our country forward. Ideological differences will always exist and in need of sometimes confronting head on, but the pursuit of common ground must be the highest priority. “Our nation faces unique and daunting challenges - a real, ongoing homeland security threat along our nation's borders, the rise of gang violence, and the heroin and opioid abuse epidemic that has indiscriminately plagued our communities. From bolstering our nation’s infrastructure to strengthening our country’s homeland security, we must break through political stalemate to deliver on behalf of the American people, starting by compromising in good faith with important negotiations to fund the government before February 15th. “It was an honor tonight to bring Suffolk County Police Commissioner Geraldine Hart to this year’s State of the Union. Throughout her 21-year tenure at the FBI, Commissioner Hart has more than earned her corruption-busting, crime-stopping reputation and she has certainly continued to uphold that reputation as Suffolk County Police Commissioner. Her commitment to combating the heroin and opioid abuse epidemic and gang violence on Long Island, are representative of the entirety of our local law enforcement’s commitment to keeping our communities safe. “It is a privilege to serve in the United States Congress and I look forward to continuing to work with the President and my colleagues in Congress on the many important priorities facing the greatest nation in the world.”
02.04.2019	CENTER MORICHES, NY - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was joined by Brookhaven Town Supervisor Ed Romaine, Brookhaven Deputy Town Supervisor and Councilman Dan Panico, stakeholders and local residents at Webby Beach in Center Moriches to announce the completion of the dredge of the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway. Sand from the dredge was placed at Webby Beach to extend the length of the beach and combat erosion, as well as at Smith Point County Park and Great Gun Beach. A map of both the Moriches Inlet emergency dredge and the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway dredge and their respective sand placements is available here. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “Coming on the heels of the completion of the Moriches Inlet emergency dredge, the conclusion of the dredge of the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway is continued good news for our local tourism and maritime industries, environment, public safety and way of life. It’s thanks to the hard work of the Army Corps of Engineers, local elected officials, fishermen, boaters and residents that we’re revitalizing and restoring our local waterways, but our work isn’t done yet. There’s so much more we can and will continue to do to improve our local beaches and waterways and ensure our area is a vibrant tourism and maritime business hub and great place to live.” Brookhaven Town Supervisor Ed Romaine said, “I want to thank Congressman Zeldin for his efforts to secure the funding and bring in the Army Corps of Engineers to complete this absolutely critical project. By restoring this beach, homeowners in neighborhood can now be more confident that the flooding they have been experiencing will not be an issue for a long time to come.” Brookhaven Councilman Dan Panico said, “Long Island’s economy is tied to our environment. Thank you to Congressman Zeldin and everyone who helped get this done.” Captain Joe Tangel, Owner of KING COD Fishing in Center Moriches said, “I just want to thank Congressman Zeldin for his efforts in coordinating the emergency dredging project in Moriches Inlet, and Bay. It is a great relief for boaters and fishermen in the area to know that something will finally be done to ensure our safety and economic viability.” Last year, Congressman Zeldin called for the dredging of Moriches Inlet and the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway after a series of winter storms. In April 2018, Rep. Zeldin worked with Colonel Thomas Asbery of the Army Corps to receive the needed Emergency Declaration from the Army Corps of Engineers North Atlantic Division Brigadier General William Graham, granting Rep. Zeldin’s request to perform emergency dredging of the Moriches Inlet. This emergency declaration began the process of coordinating funding and permits so dredging vessels could begin work, which also included placement of the sand at Smith Point County Park at Rep. Zeldin’s request. In June 2018, Rep. Zeldin secured $12.25 million in federal funding to complete the emergency dredge of Moriches Inlet. In July, the contract was awarded by the Army Corps of Engineers to Weeks Marine to complete the emergency dredge. In August 2018, Congressman Zeldin secured $3 million to dredge 2.7 miles of the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway. In August 2018, Congressman Zeldin joined Brookhaven Supervisor Ed Romaine and Councilman Dan Panico to visit possible sand deposits for the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway dredge. In November 2018, Congressman Zeldin announced the contract to dredge the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway was awarded to H&L Contracting of Bay Shore, New York.
02.02.2019	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement following the release yesterday of the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund report which stated the fund will need to make severe cuts to compensation awards due to a budget shortfall. Congressman Zeldin has teamed up with colleagues and advocates to champion the Never Forget the Heroes Act, which would permanently extend the 9/11 Victim Compensation Fund. “This report is extremely troubling and its findings that it must make severe cuts to awards across the board is completely unacceptable. Regardless of political party, district or state you come from, it is imperative we immediately pass legislation that fully funds the 9/11 Victim Compensation Fund, which covers all Americans lost on 9/11 and those who stepped up in the wake of the attacks. It covers those who worked on the pile day and night, aiding in the search, rescue and clean up efforts who were breathing in toxic debris and ash that are now known to have caused over 50 different types of cancer. This isn’t just a New York issue and this isn’t a Democratic or Republican Party platform or political football. This is a responsibility we all shoulder as Americans first and foremost - it’s the spirit of our nation, and it’s who we are as a people. These were the very men and women who in the face of evil were willing to put it all on the line to help save their fellow Americans, who ran into the towers as everyone ran out.” In the report, the Special Master of the Victim Compensation Fund announced that due to the insufficient funds, the VCF will implement a reduction of awards for claimants across the board, applying a percentage reduction to all awards. All pending claims will be subject to a reduction. ###
01.31.2019	WASHINGTON - On Tuesday, February 5, 2019, Suffolk County Police Commissioner Geraldine Hart will join Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) for the annual State of the Union Address in the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C. Commissioner Hart previously served as the Senior Supervisory Resident Agent in the FBI’s Long Island office during her 21 years of service before becoming the first woman ever to be appointed as the Suffolk County Police Commissioner. “Throughout her 21-year tenure at the FBI, Geraldine Hart has more than earned her corruption-busting, crime-stopping reputation and she has certainly continued to uphold that reputation as Suffolk County Police Commissioner,” Congressman Zeldin said. “I have had the honor of working with Ms. Hart in our continued efforts to combat the heroin and opioid abuse epidemic and gang violence on Long Island, and having witnessed her leadership and commitment first hand, I am honored to invite her to the nation’s Capitol as my guest at this year’s State of the Union address.” “The President’s State of the Union Address is a tradition that is part of this country’s history and I am honored to attend representing the men and women of the Suffolk County Police Department who are on the front lines keeping our communities safe,” Suffolk County Police Commissioner Geraldine Hart said. “As police commissioner of one of the largest police departments in the United States, I am hoping we will continue to receive the resources needed to address public safety issues including the opioid epidemic, gang violence and human trafficking so we can sustain the record-low crime numbers we have experienced in Suffolk County.”
01.30.2019	WASHINGTON - On Tuesday, January 29, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with the New York State School Boards Association (NYSSBA) Executive Director Lorraine Deller, NYSSBA Area 11 Director Susan Bergtraum, NYSSBA Area 12 and Eastern Suffolk BOCES Director Fred Langstaff, William Floyd School Board President Bob Vecchio and William Floyd School Board Members Lorraine Mentz and April Coppola to discuss important federal education funding and legislation that affect students on Long Island like the Individuals with Disabilities Act (IDEA), which ensures educational opportunities for students with special needs.
01.30.2019	WASHINGTON - On Wednesday, January 30, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was joined by 20 Members of Congress in requesting that Superintendent of Arlington National Cemetery Katherine Kelley and Secretary of the Army Dr. Mark T. Esper allow American flags to be displayed in Arlington National Cemetery. Currently, no flags of any kind may be displayed inside Arlington National Cemetery under the Respect for America’s Fallen Heroes Act of 2006 which, in an attempt to terminate the repugnant protests taking place at fallen service members’ funerals, banned all flags, banners and placards of any kind, which unlike other national cemeteries throughout the country, Arlington National Cemetery interpreted to include the prohibition of American flags. Although there is nothing disrespectful about displaying an American flag, Arlington National Cemetery visitors wishing to do so must undergo a burdensome, unreasonable pre-approval process to display the flag. “In 2006, the Respect for America’s Fallen Heroes Act was signed into law in an attempt to terminate the repugnant protests taking place at fallen service members’ funerals. Ironically, in the struggle to abolish disrespectful behavior within the cemetery, this policy has also prevented the way many Americans instinctively honor and remember our veterans - by proudly waving our American flag,” the Members wrote. “We strongly urge you to promptly revise cemetery policy and to lift the ban on visitors displaying the U.S. flag. Disrespectful behavior of any kind, including demonstrations at funerals can and must remain banned while restoring the right of proud Americans to display our nation’s flag when they visit one of our country’s most sacred sites.” A signed PDF of the letter is available here. A full text of the letter is as follows: Dear Secretary Esper and Superintendent Kelley, As proud Americans and Members of Congress, we believe the true intent of Congress has been muddled by the current policy banning the display of American flags by visitors at Arlington National Cemetery. It has come to our attention that under current policy, visitors at Arlington National Cemetery, including veterans and veteran families, are prohibited from carrying our American flag when they visit Arlington. This particular ban must be lifted immediately, especially at a national cemetery of all places. If a visitor to Arlington wishes to carry an American flag, they should be permitted to do so and without any requirement to request prior approval. In 2006, the Respect for America’s Fallen Heroes Act was signed into law in an attempt to terminate the repugnant protests taking place at fallen service members’ funerals. Ironically, in the struggle to abolish disrespectful behavior within the cemetery, this policy has also prevented the way many Americans instinctively honor and remember our veterans - by proudly waving our American flag. We strongly urge you to promptly revise cemetery policy and to lift the ban on visitors displaying the U.S. flag. Disrespectful behavior of any kind, including demonstrations at funerals can and must remain banned while restoring the right of proud Americans to display our nation’s flag when they visit one of our country’s most sacred sites. Arlington National Cemetery as you both well know serves as a shrine for more than 400,000 former service members and their families, who have honorably served our nation during times of war and peace. In honoring these service members, the cemetery has grown to one of our nation’s largest symbols of patriotism and commitment to our great country. Perhaps the most recognized symbol of the American spirit, freedom, democracy and all that our Founding Fathers fought relentlessly to achieve, is our American flag. Old Glory, however, remains a prohibited item for visitors of Arlington National Cemetery. As a nation and as proud citizens, we owe it to each and every service member interred at Arlington to promptly revise this policy. Sincerely, Rep. Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) Rep. Louie Gohmert (R, TX-1) Rep. Paul Gosar, D.D.S. (R, AZ-4) Rep. Mark Meadows (R, NC-11) Rep. Matt Gaetz (R, FL-1) Rep. Bill Posey (R, FL-8) Rep. Bradley Byrne (R, AL-1) Rep. John Moolenaar (R, MI-4) Rep. Peter King (R, NY-2) Rep. David Rouzer (R, NC-7) Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R, GA-11) Rep. Glenn Grothman (R, WI-6) Rep. Scott Tipton (R, CO-3) Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (R, PA-1) Rep. Greg Gianforte (R, MT-At Large) Rep. Ralph Norman (R, SC-5) Rep. Jeff Duncan (R, SC-3), Rep. Randy Weber (R, TX-14) Rep. Tim Walberg (R, MI-7) Rep. Denver Lee Riggleman III (R, VA-5) Rep. Tom Cole (R, OK-4)
01.29.2019	Watch Rep. Zeldin remarks on the House floor here, WASHINGTON - On Tuesday, January 29, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), co-Chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, and one of only two Jewish Republican Members of Congress, renewed his call during remarks on the House floor for immediate passage of his House resolution introduced last week to condemn anti-Israel and anti-Semitic hatred infiltrating U.S. politics and Congress. Since its introduction last week, H. Res. 72 has garnered increasing support from Members of Congress, including Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy. “My colleagues and I are motivated for this chamber to stand against anti-Israel and anti-Semitic hatred. Everyone in this chamber should join us,” said Congressman Zeldin on the House floor. “I went through Kindergarten through 12th grade, college, law school, four years of active duty and I never once experienced anti-Semitism. It has no business infiltrating American politics, it has no business infiltrating our college campuses, and it has no business in the halls of Congress.” (5:47-6:16) Following its introduction, co-leads of the resolution, Reps. Elise Stefanik and Ted Budd, issued the following statements: Congressman Budd said, “The rise of anti-semitism across our country is extremely concerning. College campuses are being inundated with anti-Israel rhetoric, and what used to be a fringe position is now becoming mainstream. We have current members of the House who’ve expressed their support for the BDS movement - which hides behind the notion that ‘we’re not boycotting the people, we’re just boycotting the current government.’ But this notion is absurd and when you try to actively delegitimize the world’s only Jewish state, Congress should respond by condemning it. When a sitting member of the House accuses supporters of Israel of having ‘dual loyalty’ - a known anti-Semitic dog whistle, we need to call it out for what it is. I’m proud to lead this legislation with Mr. Zeldin and Ms. Stefanik. It won’t, itself, rid of the hatred many have towards Jewish people here and around the world, but it will show the country that the vast majority of their representatives condemn anti-semitism in any form.” Congresswoman Stefanik said, “Anti-Semitism has no place in Congress, in the United States of America, and around the world. Those who spew hatred on the Jewish community should be held accountable and condemned. I am proud to cosponsor this resolution, and I will continue speaking out in order to eradicate the re-emergence of this unacceptable and discriminatory speech and behavior.” A PDF of the resolution is available here. Full text of the resolution is as follows: A resolution rejecting anti-Israel and anti-Semitic hatred in the United States and around the world. Whereas, in 2018, Minister Louis Farrakhan said, “So when they talk about Farrakhan, call me a hater, you do what they do, call me an anti-Semite. Stop it, I’m anti-Termite.” Whereas, in 2018, Farrakhan said, “Satanic Jews have infected the whole world with poison and deceit.” Whereas, on March 11, 1984, Farrakhan said about Adolf Hitler of Nazi Germany who was responsible for murdering 6 million Jewish people and millions of others, “He was a very great man.'' Whereas, activist Tamika Mallory called Minister Louis Farrakhan the “greatest of all time,” and her fellow organizer, Linda Sarsour said, “Only Jews... are ones that condone violence against Arabs and are cool with mosques being attacked.” Whereas, throughout the years, current Members of Congress have met with, posed for pictures with, and have otherwise embraced Farrakhan. Whereas, Representative Rashida Tlaib, who supports the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement, has been asked by the Anti-Defamation League (ADL), a Jewish non-governmental organization that fights hate crimes, to explain why she invited Abbas Hamideh to attend her swearing in events, who said in 2016 “Israel does not have a right to exist. The terrorist entity is illegal and has no basis to exist other than a delusional ISIS like ideology.” Whereas, Abbas Hamideh also stated in 2019, “I’m willing to go back to my country #Palestine if the Zionist terrorists go back to Poland. Deal? Let’s get that ball rolling ASAP. Get off Twitter and let’s make that happen.” Whereas, Representative Tlaib, who stated on January 6, 2019, of Americans who support Israel, “They forgot what country they represent.” Whereas, on November 16, 2012, Representative Ilhan Omar, who also supports the BDS movement, tweeted, “Israel has hypnotized the world, may Allah awaken the people and help them see the evil doings of Israel.” Whereas, it is the policy of the United States to oppose restrictive trade practices or boycotts fostered or imposed by any foreign country against other countries friendly to the United States or against any United States person. Whereas, Omar Barghouti, founder of the BDS movement said, “We are witnessing the rapid demise of Zionism, and nothing can be done to save it, for Zionism is intent on killing itself. I, for one, support euthanasia.” He also stated, “Many of the methods of collective and individual ‘punishment’ meted out to Palestinian civilians at the hands of young, racist, often sadistic and ever impervious Israeli soldiers... are reminiscent of common Nazi practices against the Jews.” Whereas, as a result of the BDS movement, Jewish students on college campuses across America have been exposed to rampant anti-Semitism. For example, at New York University, after the student government passed a resolution supporting BDS, the Bronfman Center for Jewish Life was temporarily closed in response to threatening Twitter posts by a student who expressed “a desire for Zionists to die.” Other examples include: a University of Michigan professor refused to write a letter of recommendation for a qualified student solely because she was seeking to study abroad in Israel; a Students for Justice in Palestine co-founder and University of California, Berkeley, professor spoke at a national conference and shared an anti-Semitic meme of an Orthodox Jewish person in his presentation; at Warren Wilson College, an invited speaker stated, "Jews are doing the same thing to the Palestinians as the Nazis did to the Jews”; A Yik Yak posting at the University of California read “Gas them, burn them, and dismantle their power structure. Humanity cannot progress with the parasitic Jew”; and more globally, University of Durban in South Africa called for the expulsion of Jewish students who did not support BDS at the University. Whereas, on May 13, 2017, white supremacist Richard Spencer led a rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, where hundreds of his followers chanted, “Jews will not replace us.” This extremist demonstration turned violent when a neo-Nazi sympathizer drove a vehicle into a crowd, which resulted in the death of one peaceful demonstrator. Two Virginia State police officers died in the line of duty that day as well. Whereas, on October 27, 2018, white supremacist Robert Bowers murdered eleven people and injured seven at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, including four police officers. While in custody and receiving medical treatment, Bowers told a SWAT officer he “wanted all Jews to die.” Whereas, there has also been a significant amount of other anti-Israel and anti-Semitic hatred in the United States and around the world that must be most strongly condemned. Whereas, the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance, of which the United States is a member, adopted a “working definition” of anti-Semitism as “a certain perception of Jews, which may be expressed as hatred toward Jews. Rhetorical and physical manifestations of anti semitism are directed toward Jewish or non-Jewish individuals and/or their property, toward Jewish community institutions and religious facilities.” Whereas, contemporary examples of anti-Semitism in public life, the media, schools, the workplace, and in the religious sphere include denying the Jewish people their right to self-determination. Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That it is the sense of the House of Representatives that— (1) That the House of Representatives rejects anti-Israel and anti-Semitic hatred in the United States and around the world.
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON - On Tuesday, January 29, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined Selden Postmaster Frank Kouba, former-Cold Spring Harbor Postmaster Steve Steinbaum, former-Huntington Postmaster Mike Silvestri, and former-Westbury Postmaster David Cook to discuss the importance of preserving US Postal Service 6-day and door delivery for residents and businesses alike, as well as other important services.
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, Congressman Max Rose (D, NY-11), member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, and House Foreign Affairs Committee Lead Republican Michael McCaul (R, TX-10) reintroduced the Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2019, which would establish international border security standards developed in conjunction with all relevant U.S. governmental departments and agencies in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, Attorney General, Director of National Intelligence (DNI), and Director of the FBI, to close security gaps that could allow foreign terrorist fighters to travel internationally. Under the legislation, U.S. resources would be utilized in the most efficient way possible with a special focus on high-risk and medium-risk countries to boost security, and a reporting system would also be established to monitor efforts of foreign governments to combat terrorism and foreign fighter travel and to suspend foreign assistance to countries not making significant efforts to comply. The Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act passed the House of Representatives during the 114th Congress, by a vote of 371-2, and passed the House Foreign Affairs Committee during the 115th Congress. “Foreign fighter movement is a very serious challenge that has resulted in the well-recognized need for improved border security around the world and better information sharing between governments,” said Congressman Zeldin. “With the rise of terrorism at home and around the world, it is important now more than ever, that we remain ever vigilant to protect our homeland.” “The threats we face as a country, and especially as New Yorkers, are real and ever changing,” said Congressman Rose (D, NY-11) “That’s why we must be using every tool at our disposal to ensure we are tracking and stopping terrorist threats around the world long before they make it to our shores.” “Individuals who pose a serious threat to our national security are constantly exploring new ways to enter the United States,” said House Foreign Affairs Committee Lead Republican Michael McCaul (TX-10). “This bill will establish and elevate international border security standards and close security gaps that could allow potential terrorists and foreign fighters to infiltrate our borders. I am proud to be an original co-sponsor of Congressman Zeldin’s forward leaning and security focused legislation.”
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was appointed to serve as Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations making him the highest ranking Republican on the subcommittee. “It is an honor to serve as Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations to support and strengthen American foreign policy,“ Congressman Zeldin said. “It is my highest priority to advance the safety and security of our nation at home and abroad, treat our adversaries as our adversaries and our friends as our friends while putting politics aside and the facts first. I look forward to working with my colleagues to provide bipartisan oversight of American foreign policy.” House Foreign Affairs Committee Lead Republican Michael McCaul (R, TX-10) said, “Today, I am proud to announce that Congressman Zeldin will serve as the Ranking Member for the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations for the Foreign Affairs Committee. He is a proven leader dedicated to finding solutions that support American interests abroad and enhance national security. As a Ranking Member, Lee will provide a dynamic voice supporting the Committee’s foreign policy authorization, the implementation of U.S. law, and fiscal discipline for foreign aid programs around the world. His experience as both a former prosecutor and U.S. Army officer will serve him well in this new role and I look forward to working together to promote American leadership around the world.” Congressman Zeldin has served on the House Foreign Affairs Committee since joining Congress in January 2015. He also serves on the House Financial Services Committee and as co-Chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus.
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON – Reps. Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Eric Swalwell (D, CA-15), and David Cicilline (D, RI-1) led 61 other Members of Congress in urging Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to publicly condemn the violence against the LGBT community in Chechnya and pressure Russian leaders to stop this persecution. The Russian LGBT Network and news media have reported a new wave of government-sponsored violence against LGBT people in Chechnya, a federal subject of Russia, since the end of December. It’s estimated that about 40 people have been detained and two have been killed as a result of torture. “The U.S. is a beacon of hope and freedom for the world, as it stands up for the dignity and human rights of all people everywhere,” the Members wrote in their bipartisan letter to Pompeo. “This situation is no different. It is incumbent on you to reaffirm these principles and publicly condemn violence against the LGBT community in Chechnya, and to utilize all of the tools available to you to pressure the Russian government into ending these atrocities.” This persecution is the latest in a pattern stretching back to 2017, when more than 100 people suspected of being LGBT were detained. Reports indicated people were also tortured – including baton beatings and electric shocks – and killed. A survivor of these atrocities told the Human Rights Campaign in June 2018, “They beat us because we are gay…. They believe we are supposed to die and that we shouldn’t be allowed to live.” The Members wrote Tuesday that they appreciated the Trump Administration’s use of sanctions and other mechanisms to push for unbiased investigation into crimes against the LGBT community inside Russia, but they fear the new reports of violence only confirm Russia’s unwillingness to take these crimes seriously. A Russian Justice Ministry official in May 2018 denied that an LGBT community even exists in Chechnya, and Chechen President Ramzan Kadyrov at one pointed allegedly said that LGBT people in Chechnya should be removed to “cleanse our blood.” “The United States cannot stand idly by as innocent Chechens continue to be killed and tortured at the hands of a discriminatory regime which refuses to acknowledge their very existence,” Congressman Zeldin said. “Since its founding, the U.S. has stood strong for the dignity and human rights of all people everywhere, and we cannot waver now. I urge the State Department to immediately condemn the blatant persecution of the LGBT community in Chechnya, and utilize the resources necessary to pressure the Russian government to end this atrocity.” “We cannot be silent while people are being oppressed, persecuted, imprisoned, tortured, and killed simply for being who they are,” Congressman Swalwell said. “The United States must lead the world in demanding human rights for all, and so must bring all available diplomatic pressure to bear to put an end to this appalling violence once and for all.” “The ongoing violence against LGBT people in Chechnya is a humanitarian outrage. The United States has a long tradition of standing up for oppressed people around the world. There is no reason that should change now,” Congressman Cicilline said. “Secretary of State Pompeo must use his voice and the policy tools at his disposal to condemn this violence and work to bring it to an end. The silence of senior officials within the Trump administration speaks volumes.”
01.28.2019	PATCHOGUE, NY - On Thursday, January 24, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was joined by New York State Assemblyman Joe DeStefano, Brookhaven Councilman Neil Foley, Patchogue Mayor Paul Pontieri, and 35 local applicants from across New York’s First Congressional District to announce his nominations to the United States Service Academies. Members of Congress may nominate candidates for appointment to four of the five U.S. service academies: U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY; U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD; U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO; and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY. The fifth service academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA), New London, CT, does not require a congressional nomination for appointment. Over the past year, Congressman Zeldin has worked closely with his staff and Service Academy Review Committee, a group of 18 volunteers, to narrow down the candidates based on specific criteria, including academic achievement, leadership potential, demonstration of character, and participation in extracurricular activities. “These 35 young men and women are the best and brightest - academically, as future leaders in our community, and in everything they are already accomplishing,” said Congressman Zeldin following the ceremony. “Their decision to use their talents to serve our nation, by attending one of the U.S. service academies, brings such pride to Long Island and our entire nation, and it is an honor to present them with their nominations and congratulate them on their great achievement this early in life.” The full list of nominees is as follows: U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY: Anthony Seymour of Miller Place Thomas Gabriele of Water Mill Lindsay Schuster of Middle Island Kyle Walker of Smithtown Jessica DeSena of Lake Grove David Brown of Wading River U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD: Matthew Mullahy of Saint James Anthony Sciotto of Rocky Point Carlie Potabi of East Patchogue Nontsikelelo Mathwasa of Coram Thomas Marks of Holtsville Connor Ricciardi of Saint James Julian Romano of Smithtown Isabella Costa of Smithtown Dylan Flaxman of Holbrook Patrick Wisti of Ronkonkoma Nikolas Daly of Port Jefferson Lucas Morelli of Rocky Point Bernadette Blackford of Eastport Kyle Rausch of Middle Island U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO: Mark Tienken of Smithtown Lucas McNamara of Saint James Jacob Chandler of Saint James Christopher Imbriano of Mattituck Xavier Kahn of East Marion William Howard of Southampton Alexander Amirhamzeh of Hauppauge Claire McGrath of Shirley Susan Yeung of Ridge U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY: Patrick Vonn Dyke of Centereach Alek Zahradka of Rocky Point Finn Moran of Center Moriches Aidan Felice of Ronkonkoma Daniel Foley of Lake Grove Wesley Pase of Shoreham
01.28.2019	SOUTHOLD, NY - On Sunday, January 27, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was a guest speaker at an Eagle Scout Court of Honor for Troop 12 of Southold. During the ceremony, John Michael Judge, Stephen Schill, Nicholas Smith, Nicholas Vicinanza and Tyler Woodhull received the rank of Eagle, the highest rank in Scouting which requires years of dedication, service and leadership. These scouts truly represent the values of good citizenship and American patriotism.
01.27.2019	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, and one of two Jewish Republicans in Congress, issued the following statement today on International Holocaust Remembrance Day and the 74th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz: “Today on International Holocaust Remembrance Day, the innocent lives of 6 million Jews and millions of others are honored as we renew what must be a mankind long pledge to never allow this darkest form of evil to ever rise again. Never again in any form can we allow this horribly unjust ending for the innocent lives of so many children, women and men. Thankfully, with the will and courage of our greatest generation and their service and sacrifice, ultimately, good triumphed over evil, but not before millions of lives were unfathomably cut short, tearing apart families, communities and nations.”
01.23.2019	MATTITUCK, NY - On Saturday, January 19, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Annual Mattituck Fire Department Installation Dinner at Raphael Vineyard in Peconic. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with former Mattituck Fire Chief Samuel Bail who was honored for his 25 years of service to the Mattituck Fire Department.
01.23.2019	WASHINGTON - Today, ahead of International Holocaust Remembrance Day on January 27, 2019, Representative Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), one of two Jewish Republicans in Congress, co-Chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, and Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, joined by Representatives Ted Budd (R, NC-13), Elise Stefanik (R, NY-21), and other Members of Congress, are introducing a House Resolution rejecting anti-Israel and anti-Semitic hatred in the United States and around the world, which is becoming more widely embraced and accepted within American politics and the halls of Congress. Congressman Zeldin said, “As Louis Farrakhan, Tamika Mallory, Linda Sarsour and others have been working hard to inject anti-Israel and anti-Semitic hatred into American politics and society, some Members of Congress have been embracing these individuals with open arms and echoing some of their worst messages. From using the oldest anti-Semitic tricks in the book to rejecting Israel’s very right to exist, blatant anti-Jewish, anti-Israel hate is growing and normalizing the discrimination against the Jewish people this world vowed it would never accept again. Congress must immediately and unequivocally denounce this hatred in the United States and around the world, standing in solidarity against racism and discrimination in any form. Last week, the House voted to reject White Supremacy, which I voted YES on. The Speaker should immediately schedule a vote to pass my new Resolution as well, rejecting the anti-Israel and anti-Semitic hate infiltrating American politics and the halls of Congress, and it should be passed at least on a nearly unanimous, bipartisan basis.” Congressman Zeldin also posted the following tweet: “As Farrakhan, etc spew anti-Israel, anti-Semitic hate, many Reps. have embraced/echoed them. Last week, the House voted to reject White Supremacy. We should also pass my new Reso rejecting anti-Israel, anti-Semitic hate infiltrating US politics & Congress: https://zeldin.house.gov/sites/zeldin.house.gov/files/ZELDIN_019s_xml.pdf ” Congressman Budd said, “The rise of anti-semitism across our country is extremely concerning. College campuses are being inundated with anti-Israel rhetoric, and what used to be a fringe position is now becoming mainstream. We have current members of the House who’ve expressed their support for the BDS movement - which hides behind the notion that ‘we’re not boycotting the people, we’re just boycotting the current government.’ But this notion is absurd and when you try to actively delegitimize the world’s only Jewish state, Congress should respond by condemning it. When a sitting member of the House accuses supporters of Israel of having ‘dual loyalty’ - a known anti-Semitic dog whistle, we need to call it out for what it is. I’m proud to lead this legislation with Mr. Zeldin and Ms. Stefanik. It won’t, itself, rid of the hatred many have towards Jewish people here and around the world, but it will show the country that the vast majority of their representatives condemn anti-semitism in any form.” Congresswoman Stefanik said, “Anti-Semitism has no place in Congress, in the United States of America, and around the world. Those who spew hatred on the Jewish community should be held accountable and condemned. I am proud to cosponsor this resolution, and I will continue speaking out in order to eradicate the re-emergence of this unacceptable and discriminatory speech and behavior.” A PDF of the resolution is available here. Full text of the resolution is as follows: A resolution rejecting anti-Israel and anti-Semitic hatred in the United States and around the world. Whereas, in 2018, Minister Louis Farrakhan said, “So when they talk about Farrakhan, call me a hater, you do what they do, call me an anti-Semite. Stop it, I’m anti-Termite.” Whereas, in 2018, Farrakhan said, “Satanic Jews have infected the whole world with poison and deceit.” Whereas, on March 11, 1984, Farrakhan said about Adolf Hitler of Nazi Germany who was responsible for murdering 6 million Jewish people and millions of others, “He was a very great man.'' Whereas, activist Tamika Mallory called Minister Louis Farrakhan the “greatest of all time,” and her fellow organizer, Linda Sarsour said, “Only Jews... are ones that condone violence against Arabs and are cool with mosques being attacked.” Whereas, throughout the years, current Members of Congress have met with, posed for pictures with, and have otherwise embraced Farrakhan. Whereas, Representative Rashida Tlaib, who supports the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement, has been asked by the Anti-Defamation League (ADL), a Jewish non-governmental organization that fights hate crimes, to explain why she invited Abbas Hamideh to attend her swearing in events, who said in 2016 “Israel does not have a right to exist. The terrorist entity is illegal and has no basis to exist other than a delusional ISIS like ideology.” Whereas, Abbas Hamideh also stated in 2019, “I’m willing to go back to my country #Palestine if the Zionist terrorists go back to Poland. Deal? Let’s get that ball rolling ASAP. Get off Twitter and let’s make that happen.” Whereas, Representative Tlaib, who stated on January 6, 2019, of Americans who support Israel, “They forgot what country they represent.” Whereas, on November 16, 2012, Representative Ilhan Omar, who also supports the BDS movement, tweeted, “Israel has hypnotized the world, may Allah awaken the people and help them see the evil doings of Israel.” Whereas, it is the policy of the United States to oppose restrictive trade practices or boycotts fostered or imposed by any foreign country against other countries friendly to the United States or against any United States person. Whereas, Omar Barghouti, founder of the BDS movement said, “We are witnessing the rapid demise of Zionism, and nothing can be done to save it, for Zionism is intent on killing itself. I, for one, support euthanasia.” He also stated, “Many of the methods of collective and individual ‘punishment’ meted out to Palestinian civilians at the hands of young, racist, often sadistic and ever impervious Israeli soldiers... are reminiscent of common Nazi practices against the Jews.” Whereas, as a result of the BDS movement, Jewish students on college campuses across America have been exposed to rampant anti-Semitism. For example, at New York University, after the student government passed a resolution supporting BDS, the Bronfman Center for Jewish Life was temporarily closed in response to threatening Twitter posts by a student who expressed “a desire for Zionists to die.” Other examples include: a University of Michigan professor refused to write a letter of recommendation for a qualified student solely because she was seeking to study abroad in Israel; a Students for Justice in Palestine co-founder and University of California, Berkeley, professor spoke at a national conference and shared an anti-Semitic meme of an Orthodox Jewish person in his presentation; at Warren Wilson College, an invited speaker stated, "Jews are doing the same thing to the Palestinians as the Nazis did to the Jews”; A Yik Yak posting at the University of California read “Gas them, burn them, and dismantle their power structure. Humanity cannot progress with the parasitic Jew”; and more globally, University of Durban in South Africa called for the expulsion of Jewish students who did not support BDS at the University. Whereas, on May 13, 2017, white supremacist Richard Spencer led a rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, where hundreds of his followers chanted, “Jews will not replace us.” This extremist demonstration turned violent when a neo-Nazi sympathizer drove a vehicle into a crowd, which resulted in the death of one peaceful demonstrator. Two Virginia State police officers died in the line of duty that day as well. Whereas, on October 27, 2018, white supremacist Robert Bowers murdered eleven people and injured seven at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, including four police officers. While in custody and receiving medical treatment, Bowers told a SWAT officer he “wanted all Jews to die.” Whereas, there has also been a significant amount of other anti-Israel and anti-Semitic hatred in the United States and around the world that must be most strongly condemned. Whereas, the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance, of which the United States is a member, adopted a “working definition” of anti-Semitism as “a certain perception of Jews, which may be expressed as hatred toward Jews. Rhetorical and physical manifestations of anti semitism are directed toward Jewish or non-Jewish individuals and/or their property, toward Jewish community institutions and religious facilities.” Whereas, contemporary examples of anti-Semitism in public life, the media, schools, the workplace, and in the religious sphere include denying the Jewish people their right to self-determination. Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That it is the sense of the House of Representatives that— (1) That the House of Representatives rejects anti-Israel and anti-Semitic hatred in the United States and around the world.
01.21.2019	RIVERHEAD, NY - On Martin Luther King Jr. Day, Monday, January 21, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was joined by the United States Postal Service, PFC Langhorn Memorial Committee, local elected officials, local veterans and veterans’ organizations, and the family and friends of PFC Garfield Langhorn of Riverhead at the Private First Class Garfield M. Langhorn Post Office in Riverhead, New York, to honor his bravery, sacrifice, and service to his country following the 50th anniversary of his falling in the line of duty. In honor of the 50th anniversary of his sacrifice, Congressman Zeldin announced the introduction of the PFC Garfield M. Langhorn Memorial Semipostal Stamp to Benefit our Veterans Act of 2019 to create a semipostal stamp in his honor. A semipostal stamp is a stamp sold at a premium price, which covers the cost of postage and donates the excess money to a nationally recognized cause. The excess money from the PFC Langhorn stamp would go to the Supportive Services for Veteran Families, a Department of Veterans Affairs program, that offers assistance to very low-income veteran families who are in the process of transitioning to permanent housing. This program provides grants to private nonprofits that provide services to promote housing stability for veteran families. On January 15, 1969, PFC Langhorn’s unit was returning from the attempted rescue of a downed American helicopter when North Vietnamese forces surrounded them. Under the cover of darkness, the North Vietnamese began to advance throwing a hand grenade in front of 20-year-old PFC Langhorn who was just a few feet from his injured comrades. PFC Langhorn unhesitatingly threw himself on the grenade, scooped it beneath his body and absorbed the blast, saving his fellow platoon mates. For his sacrifice and service to our nation, PFC Langhorn received the Purple Heart and the highest and most prestigious personal military decoration - the Medal of Honor. PFC Langhorn is the only Vietnam War Medal of Honor recipient from Suffolk County. Most recently, in 2010, the Riverhead Post Office was named in his honor. Congressman Zeldin said, “It’s fitting that we honored PFC Langhorn on the day we remember the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. who championed the rights of the downtrodden, and gave a voice to the voiceless, which ultimately cost him his life. In that similar vein of selflessness and in his final heroic act, PFC Garfield sacrificed his own life to save his fellow soldiers on Dr. King’s birthday - January 15, 1969, throwing himself on a live grenade to save his platoon mates. For his extraordinary act of bravery, PFC Langhorn received a series of awards, including the highest, most prestigious personal military decoration - the Medal of Honor, and, most recently, the Riverhead Post Office was dedicated in his name. There is no doubt, PFC Langhorn has earned these commendations, but they mean little if we forget to look beyond the decorations and forever remember and honor the actions of the 20-year-old young man who earned them.” Suffolk County Veterans Services Director Thomas Ronayne said, “Suffolk County continues to be proud of the selfless and heroic actions of PFC Langhorn. I am honored to participate in recognizing the service and sacrifice of this great man and it is a privilege that he was a son of Suffolk County.”
01.18.2019	COMMACK, N.Y. - On Friday, January 18th, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was a panelist at the Hauppauge Industrial Association of Long Island’s (HIA-LI) 41st Annual Meeting and Legislative Breakfast, alongside New York State Assemblyman Mike Fitzpatrick, President Officer of the Suffolk County Legislator Duwayne Gregory, Town of Islip Supervisor Angie Carpenter, and Town of Smithtown Supervisor Ed Wehrheim. The panelists discussed their Long Island economic initiatives, as well as many other key issues that impact quality of life from the local, state, and federal levels. The meeting was attended by hundreds of Long Island employers and employees.
01.16.2019	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement following a suicide attack on a U.S.-led coalition on a patrol in Manbij, Syria; ISIS has claimed responsibility for the attack: “Americans woke up this morning deeply saddened to learn the tragic news that U.S. military personnel were killed and wounded in a suicide attack in Manbij, Syria, while on patrol leading coalition forces. These service members and their families sacrificed everything as part of the world’s greatest military power in defense of the greatest nation in the world. We must not only pray for these heroes, but recommit to enacting the most effective and resilient policy to ensure their lives were not lost in vain. While ISIS has been nearly wiped off of the map in Iraq and Syria, they were not entirely eliminated. Candidly, individuals may potentially identify themselves as ISIS fighters for not only years, but decades to come. The resolve of the United States and other countries around the world must never waver. “We must ensure that any removal of troops from Syria is done in a manner that deliberately required conditions and objectives to be adequately met. It’s vital that any vacuum ever created by the departure of American leadership on the ground does not ever get filled by aggressors and bad actors who cause an even larger national security threat than before that vacuum was first created. In Syria, for example, we don’t want to see Turkey come in and wipe out the Kurds; nor do we want to see ISIS re-establishing a caliphate. American troops have done an exceptional job of almost completely wiping out ISIS on the ground, and we must ensure we hold that progress.”
01.16.2019	WASHINGTON - Representatives Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Eliot Engel (D, NY-16), Peter King (R, NY-2), and Al Green (D, TX-9) re-introduced the “Don’t Break up the T-Band Act” (H.R. 491); legislation that would repeal the provision of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, which mandates the sale of the T-Band spectrum, therefore allowing law-enforcement, fire officials, and EMS to continue using the T-Band spectrum to operate their radios for day-to-day life saving operations. Currently, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) is required to reallocate and auction the T-Band spectrum by 2021, which would endanger public safety communications in major metropolitan areas across the United States. The T-Band is a portion of spectrum used in 11 heavily populated metropolitan areas, including New York, covering over 90 million Americans, to support critical public safety communications (i.e. police, fire and other first responder’s radios) and provide regional interoperability among first responders. Public safety agencies have spent numerous years and hundreds of millions of dollars of federal, state and local funds to plan and build out these T-Band networks. The result is battle-tested public safety networks that provide resilient coverage, reliability and regional interoperability. This spectrum is essential to public safety and for many public safety entities there is nowhere else to move, so Reps. Zeldin, Engel, and King have introduced the “Don’t Break Up the T-Band Act” to preserve the T-Band spectrum before it is reallocated for good. Congressman Zeldin (R, NY-1) said, “Our first responders bravely and selflessly put their lives on the line each and every day to protect our communities, and our first priority must be ensuring they have the resources they need to safely and effectively do their jobs. From hurricanes to fires, in the most dire situations, the T-band spectrum provides critical communication between first responders. Even when cell phones, internet, and electricity cease to function, T-band is the last line of defense, and selling off this spectrum would be a disservice to our nation’s first responders and the millions of Americans they serve.” Congressman Engel (D, NY-16) said, “As I’ve said before with regard to the T-Band spectrum: if it isn’t broke, don’t fix it. T-band has been successfully utilized by law enforcement and first-responders for quite some time. It is a reliable and resilient network, that functions in subway tunnels, underground concrete parking lots, and even deep inside large buildings where other systems routinely fail. The T-Band spectrum works and as such it must be preserved for our brave police officers, fire fighters, EMTs and other first responders. I’m proud that we were able to quickly introduce this bipartisan bill early in the 116th Congress.” Congressman Peter King (R, NY-2) said, “This legislation allows our first responders to take advantage of emerging telecommunication technologies while still retaining their radio communications. In addition, it will remove the requirement to re-work emergency communications infrastructure which would be an overwhelming financial burden to our local governments.” Congressman Al Green (R, TX-9) said, “First responders and emergency personnel must be able to communicate no matter the circumstances. It is imperative that Congress support legislation that protects the lines of communication among the brave men and women who respond to national emergencies and natural disasters. Passing the Don’t Break Up the T-Band Act of 2019 will help accomplish this goal.” NYC Police Commissioner James P. O’Neill said, “The NYPD has significantly reduced crime and disorder in New York City due, in large part, to our ability to rapidly respond and effectively communicate. Our police officers depend on the well-engineered T-Band to keep all New Yorkers safe. This system enables the NYPD to efficiently answer more than nine million calls to 911 each year. This legislation is crucial in maintaining our ability to best protect all the people we serve.” NYC Fire Commissioner Daniel A. Nigro said, “Since September 11th, we have systematically improved radio communications for our Firefighters and EMS personnel responding to fires and medical emergencies because those transmissions can so often mean the difference between life and death. Losing the T-Band spectrum would require billions of dollars to replace existing radios and infrastructure, devastate FDNY’s operations at thousands of emergencies each day, and unnecessarily endanger the safety of every single New Yorker.” Suffolk County Fire District Officers Association President Jay Egan said, “The issue of the T-Band being left as is should be paramount to all and being it is directly a public safety issue, remain supported on a bipartisan bases. The fire service dedicates countless hours to protect the well being of all our residents and keeping the T-Band intact will only assist in this effort. Taxpayers everywhere are currently overburdened as it is and additional costs to meet the demands of the alternative to T-Band would be astronomical.” Suffolk County Legislator and Mastic Fire Chief Rudy Sunderman said, “As a County Legislator, as well as a Fire Chief, I fully support the repeal of the bipartisan T-Band bill as proposed by Congressman Lee Zeldin and his colleagues. Finding new radio channels will be time consuming with a hefty bill for radio programming for each Fire District on Long Island. Repealing the mandated sale of the T-Band spectrum will be a huge cost savings not only to the fire districts but to the taxpayer as well.”
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON - On January 15, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with Turkish native and New York Knicks Center Enes Kanter to discuss human rights violations being committed in Turkey as well as other topics. “For too long the Turkish people have experienced violations of basic human rights and the disregard of essential freedoms, such as free speech and religious freedom,” said Congressman Zeldin. “It was heartbreaking to hear Enes’ story and that of so many other Turkish people who are suffering due to oppression, including widespread, wrongful imprisonment. We must do more to reject blatant human rights abuses in Turkey and stand for a truly free Turkish people.” During his visit, Enes Kanter had meetings as well with other Members of Congress from both sides of the aisle in the House and Senate, including Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee Eliot Engel (D, NY-16) and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D, NY).
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON - On January 15, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) entered the following tribute into the Congressional Record honoring the life and legacy of Medal of Honor recipient PFC Garfield M. Langhorn of Riverhead, New York, who saved the lives of his platoon mates at just 20 years old, by throwing himself on a live grenade in Vietnam’s Pleiku Province on January 15, 1969. “Mr. Speaker, Today, I rise to honor the service and sacrifice of hometown hero and Medal of Honor recipient PFC Garfield M. Langhorn, from Riverhead, New York, who, 50 years ago today, saved the lives of his platoon members at just 20 years old, by throwing himself on a live grenade in Pleiku Province in Vietnam on January 15, 1969. “PFC Langhorn served as a radio operator with Troop C, 7th Squadron, 17th Cavalry Regiment, 1st Aviation Brigade, when his unit attempted to rescue the crew of a downed American helicopter. Finding no surviving crew, PFC Langhorn and his unit were returning the fallen aviators when they came under heavy fire from North Vietnamese forces. Under the cover of darkness, the North Vietnamese began to advance, throwing a hand grenade in front of PFC Langhorn who was just a few feet from his injured comrades. “It was in that moment, PFC Langhorn selflessly chose the courageous act President Lincoln once referred to as “the last full measure of devotion” - to his brothers, his fellow soldiers and his country. In that moment, he “unhesitatingly threw himself on the grenade, scooped it beneath his body and absorbed the blast,” according to his Medal of Honor Citation and the first-hand accounts of his fellow soldiers he saved. “For his extraordinary act of bravery, PFC Langhorn received a series of awards, including the highest, most prestigious personal military decoration - the Medal of Honor, and, most recently, the Riverhead Post Office was dedicated in his name.There is no doubt, PFC Langhorn has earned these commendations, but they mean little if we forget to look beyond the decorations and forever remember and honor the actions of the 20-year-old young man who earned them. “In saving his fellow soldiers, PFC Langhorn’s life was extinguished too soon, but as President Lincoln continued, “we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain.” Today, we must challenge ourselves as Americans to pick up that torch, to embody the bravery, selflessness and commitment to our great country. There is no memorial, no medal and no post office that can bring back PFC Langhorn, but he can live eternally in all of us, in our actions, and in our hearts.”
01.14.2019	Part 2 of a 2-Part Op-ed by Congressman Lee Zeldin In the first part of this 2-part op-ed, I discussed Long Island’s important environmental priorities, from preventing offshore drilling off the coast of Long Island, to halting the sale of Plum Island and securing vital funding for Brookhaven National Lab and Stony Brook University’s important clean energy research. Almost completely surrounded by water, safeguarding our environment is an important in every part of our district’s way of life, but it is just one of the many important issues facing our area. From Hauppauge to Shelter Island, the vast diversity and individuality that makes NY-1 the greatest Congressional District in the country, also presents unique challenges that I’m committed to addressing each and every day. Along the North Shore of our district, I’m fighting to restore quality of life for residents adversely affected by the North Shore Helicopter Route, and, last Congress, my legislation requiring the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to reconsider the North Shore Helicopter Route, including an all-water route, was passed and signed into law. Now it’s vital the FAA takes the necessary steps to change the route and provide relief to the residents who for too long have been ignored while suffering due to the persistent issue of helicopter noise on the East End. From Northport VA to the East End, I’m also fighting to ensure our local veterans have access to the high quality care they have earned. This includes prioritizing the reopening of Building 11, the homeless shelter on campus at Northport VA, focusing on repairing the campus’ aging infrastructure and expanding access to care for East End veterans with Community Based Outpatient Clinics and other alternatives that allow them to receive the care they need with local convenience. Just as our nation’s veterans fought for the freedoms and liberties that make this country the greatest in the world, our local law enforcement, firefighters and emergency medical services work to safeguard our neighborhoods each and everyday. We must ensure they have access to every resource they need to safely and effectively do their jobs. This includes blocking the sale of the T-Band spectrum, a vital communication system, which works even when cell phones, internet, and electricity cease to function. T-band is the last line of defense, and selling off this spectrum would harm public safety and at great financial cost. On Long Island, our local law enforcement is faced with the rise of the heroin and opioid abuse crisis, as well as transnational gangs, such as MS-13. We must make sure law enforcement is provided with the equipment they need to protect themselves and the laws in place that help safeguard our neighborhoods. In my time in Congress, we’ve passed into law several key pieces of legislation on this front. Some of these bills include the Federal Law Enforcement Self-Defense and Protection Act and Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Program Reauthorization Act, and this progress is important, but there is even more hard work that still lies ahead. Our local first responders’ commitment to our community, courage and unwavering dedication to protect and serve may never have been as evident as it was on September 11th, 2001. The 9/11 Victim Compensation Fund was established to provide compensation for the victims of 9/11 and their families, including these brave first responders. However, we’re now hearing from the Special Master of the fund that this funding “may be insufficient to compensate all claims.” This is completely unacceptable, and I’ve already called on Congress to fully fund the Victim Compensation fund at the very beginning of this Congress In honor of these first responders and the families who carry on their memory. These are just a few of the many important priorities for our great island. It is my utmost honor to be able to represent New York’s First Congressional District. It is a privilege to fight for my constituents, friends and neighbors, while serving in our nation’s capital. We will always have a lot of critical work still ahead and successes to pursue and achieve for the amazing place we all call home. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York in Congress where he serves on both the House Financial Services and Foreign Affairs Committees.
01.07.2019	RIVERHEAD, NY - On Monday, January 7, 2019, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined the Northport VA Medical Center Acting Director Cathy Cruise, Suffolk County Executive Steve Bellone, Suffolk County Legislator Al Krupski and local veterans to cut the ribbon on new audiology and physical therapy services at Northport’s community based outpatient clinic (CBOC) in Riverhead. “Our nation’s veterans have earned nothing less than the highest quality care, and it is our responsibility to ensure they have access to the services they need in the most convenient location possible,” said Congressman Zeldin. “Allowing East End veterans to access expanded treatment without having to travel to Northport VA Medical Center’s main campus makes a world of difference in their everyday lives, and I look forward to Northport’s continued expansion of care into our local communities.” The expansion of Northport’s CBOC in Riverhead includes the addition of audiology and physical therapy capabilities. Local veterans can learn more about these expanded services and the Riverhead CBOC’s hours of operation here.
01.07.2019	Part 1 of a 2-Part Op-ed by Congressman Lee Zeldin Last week, it was an honor to be surrounded by family and friends while being sworn in for my third term in the U.S. House of Representatives serving the best Congressional District in the country. Such a unique and diverse district, New York’s First Congressional District faces unique challenges, ones I’m committed to tackling in Washington, D.C., and home on Long Island. As we kick off the new Congress, I’ll be focusing on Long Island’s infrastructure, continuing to secure funding and push state, local, and federal agencies to complete essential work, which includes repairing and improving highways and local roads and boosting federal aid for locally owned infrastructure like bridges and overpasses. This will be critical as the next long term highway bill is negotiated this Congress. As a district nearly completely surrounded by water, bolstering our maritime infrastructure is also vital. We must ensure our waterways, seaside communities and coastal economy are protected, which is why I’m fighting to secure completion of the critical Fire Island to Montauk Point (FIMP) project and other Army Corps initiatives in our region. On Long Island, our waterways are in many ways directly connected to our way of life, which is why I oppose offshore drilling off our coast. Even just the exploratory phase of offshore drilling would be detrimental. The seismic testing would affect fish and marine life populations and is a major concern for our environmentalists, fishermen, oyster growers, and others who are part of our historic and growing seafood economy. It is so important to note one thing in particular - there is no evidence of these resources even being located off of Long Island. That alone is reason enough to take Long Island off the table, and I’ll be fighting to make sure the Department of Interior does so. Right here on Long Island, we have state of the art facilities, such as Stony Brook University and Brookhaven National Lab (BNL), that are pioneering cutting edge research that includes the future of clean and green energy. Supporting their important research is of the utmost importance for not only our area’s economy and the future of scientific research on Long Island, but for the scientific advancement of our entire nation and world. Just as I have before, I’ll continue to champion hundreds of millions of dollars in critical funding and secure vital grants that allow Stony Brook University and BNL to continue their important work. As co-chairman of the Bipartisan Long Island Sound Caucus, I’ve partnered across the aisle to secure important funding for coastal communities, including securing a 5-year reauthorization of the Long Island Sound Program, which was last authorized for 5 years back in 2006. The Long Island Sound, National Estuary and Sea Grant Programs are just a few of the environmental revitalization and protection programs I’m committed to working across the aisle and the Sound to secure full funding for this upcoming Congress. Hand-in-hand with protecting our environment, we must preserve the state-of-the-art research facility on Plum Island, preserving this island’s natural beauty, diverse wildlife and ecosystem, as it continues to provide important economic, scientific and environmental benefits. Over the past 4 years, I’ve secured House passage of multiple bipartisan proposals that would preserve Plum Island, including blocking the sale of Plum Island to the highest bidder, but all of these legislative proposals have died due to inaction by the Senate. This Congress, I’ll be doubling down on this bipartisan effort with the help of lawmakers from both sides of the Sound to preserve this iconic cultural and environmental landmark. These are just a few of the many important priorities for our great island. It is my utmost honor to be able to represent New York’s First Congressional District. It is a privilege to fight for my constituents, friends and neighbors, while serving in our nation’s capital. We will always have a lot of critical work still ahead and successes to pursue and achieve for the amazing place we all call home. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York in Congress where he serves as Co-Chairman of the bipartisan Long Island Sound Caucus and founding member of the bipartisan National Estuary Caucus.
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON - On January 3, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was sworn in to a third term in the United States House of Representatives by newly-elected Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi (D, CA-12). Congressman Zeldin was joined by his wife Diana, their twin daughters, Arianna and Mikayla, his mother, Merrill, his cousin, Travis, and Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
12.26.2018	Congressman Zeldin delivered chocolate chip cookies from Tate’s Bake Shop; based in New York’s First Congressional District, to deployed constituents from Orient, Riverhead and elsewhere. MIDDLE EAST - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spent Christmas again in the Middle East visiting U.S. troops deployed in the CENTCOM Area of Operations and participating in several high level diplomatic and military meetings in addition to several other troop engagements, including serving lunch and dinner to the troops at three separate bases. Every Christmas since coming to Congress, Congressman Zeldin has led a Congressional Delegation (CODEL) of Members of Congress to the Middle East. This year, he is joined by Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (R, PA-1), Rep. Filemon Vela (D, TX-34) and Rep. Aumua Amata Coleman Radewagen (R-AS). “Spending Christmas away from their families isn’t easy, and for many of our servicemen and women this isn’t the first holiday season away from home,” said Congressman Zeldin. “It is an honor to be able to personally thank them for their service, let them know how much they are appreciated and how many Americans are thinking of them, praying for them and immensely grateful for their service.”
12.25.2018	Photos from Congressman Zeldin’s previous CODELs he led to Iraq and Afghanistan. MIDDLE EAST - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) is spending Christmas today in the Middle East visiting U.S. troops deployed in the CENTCOM Area of Operations. Every Christmas since coming to Congress, Congressman Zeldin has led a Congressional Delegation (CODEL) of Members of Congress to the Middle East. This year, he is joined by Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (R, PA-1), Rep. Filemon Vela (D, TX-34) and Rep. Aumua Amata Coleman Radewagen (R-AS). “Merry Christmas from the Middle East! It’s been an honor to visit our troops deployed here every Christmas since coming to Congress; a tradition continuing again today,” said Congressman Zeldin. “I’m so grateful of these men and women who defend our freedoms and sacrifice so much. From my family to yours, have a blessed and safe holiday.”
12.22.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) sent a letter to Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives Phil Kiko directing him to withhold his pay until the federal government is fully funded. Despite a lapse in appropriations and the current partial government shutdown, Members of Congress still receive a salary. “It's crazy to me that Members of Congress get paid while other federal employees do not,” Rep. Zeldin said. “I instructed the House Chief Administrative Officer to withhold my pay until this partial government shutdown ends.” View a signed PDF of the letter here.
12.21.2018	WASHINGTON - On Thursday, December 20, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined House Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chairman Phil Roe (R, TN-1), Ranking Member Mark Takano (D, CA-41), Vice Chairman Gus Bilirakis (R, FL-12), Representatives Mike Bost (R, IL-12), Julia Brownley (D, CA-26), Jack Bergman (R, MI-1), Scott Peters (D, CA 52), Amata Coleman Radewagon (R, American Samoa), David Valadao (R, CA-41), members of the American Legion, Vietnam Veterans of America, Military Veterans Advocacy Group, Fleet Reserve Association, Paralyzed Veterans of America and Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America to call on the Senate to pass the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act of 2017 (H.R. 299) that passed the House on June 25, 2018. This legislation expands treatment coverage for those affected by Agent Orange from not only those who served on the ground, as federal law currently stands, but to those service members who were affected while serving at sea. “These brave service members have put their lives on the line for our great nation, and they have earned nothing less than the highest quality care,” said Congressman Zeldin. “Furthermore, this legislation includes my bill, the Flexible VA Loan Guarantee Act, which expands veterans’ opportunity for homeownership, by eliminating the loan limit the VA can guarantee. This is especially critical in districts like mine on Long Island where the median home price is higher. Our nation’s veterans are the reason we have the opportunity to live in the greatest country in the world, and it would be disgraceful for the Senate to not pass this bipartisan bill immediately. It really should have been done already.” The Flexible VA Loan Guarantee Act would eliminate the loan limit or “maximum guarantee amount” of a loan that the Veterans Affairs Administration (VA) can guarantee for a veteran, providing the VA with the flexibility to determine the appropriate limit for individual veterans loans and expand access to homeownership in areas like Long Island where real estate values are higher.
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after voting in favor of the Continuing Appropriations Act of 2019 (House Amendment to the Senate Amendment to H.R. 695), which includes $5.7 billion for physical border barriers, $7.8 billion in disaster relief and funds the remaining portions of the government until February 8, 2019: “It should be a bipartisan success to secure our nation’s borders, aid Americans affected by natural disasters and provide certainty and consistency in funding our federal government. It’s time to truly negotiate and compromise for the greater good. The election is over. I urge the Senate to follow suit, avoid a government shutdown and do what’s right for the Americans they’re sworn to represent. With a Republican President, Republican controlled Senate, and Republican controlled House that will be Democrat controlled in January, the idea of the only acceptable solution being 100% of what Democrats are demanding is just not the right answer. Negotiate… and… compromise.”
12.19.2018	SMITHTOWN, NY - On Wednesday, December 19, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined Sully H.W. Bush, America’s VetDogs President and CEO John Miller, Service Dog Program Manager Valerie Cramer, U.S. Army Veteran Tyler McGibbon, who currently works with an America’s VetDogs Service Animal, Suffolk County Executive Steve Bellone, Assemblyman Michael Fitzpatrick, Smithtown Town Clerk Vincent Puleo, and other staff members from America’s VetDogs at the Welcome Home Sully Event in Smithtown. America’s VetDogs provides veterans and first-responders with service and guide animals to assist them in their daily tasks at no cost to the veterans and first-responders. Watch Rep. Zeldin’s remarks here.
12.19.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement after the Department of State designated Goran Radosavljevic of Serbia under Section 7031(c) due to his involvement in gross violations of human rights, including the 1999 murder of the Bytyqi brothers of Hampton Bays killed in Serbia after the Kosovo War. Section 7031(c) provides that, in cases where the Secretary of State has credible information that foreign officials have been involved in significant corruption or a gross violation of human rights, those individuals and their immediate family members are ineligible for entry into the United States. “I applaud Secretary of State Mike Pompeo for recognizing the Serbian government’s involvement in the execution-style murders of brothers Ylli, Agron and Mehmet of Hampton Bays,” said Congressman Zeldin. “In July of 1999, these three brothers went overseas towards the end of the Kosovo war and were arrested by Serbian authorities for illegally entering the country when they accidentally crossed into Serbian-controlled territory. The brothers were kidnapped, murdered, and dumped into a mass grave in Serbia by government officials still serving today. The Bytyqi brothers gave their lives to fight injustice; now, finally, the United States is providing their family with a small semblance of justice for these heinous murders.” In July of 1999, three brothers, Ylli, 25 years old, Agron, 23 years old, and Mehmet Bytyqi, 21 years old, who were born in the United States, and resided in Hampton Bays, NY, went overseas towards the end of the Kosovo war and were arrested when they accidently crossed into Serbian-controlled territory. The brothers were arrested by Serbian authorities for illegally entering the country and brutally executed shortly after. While Serbian authorities have investigated the deaths of the brothers, there have been no charges brought against those responsible for these murders. In 2016, Congressman Zeldin led his colleagues in urging then-Vice President Joe Biden to raise the Bytyqi brothers case with then-Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic ahead of his visit to Serbia. In 2017, Congressman Zeldin demanded his colleagues to secure justice for the Bytyqi brothers on the floor of the House of Representatives and led his colleagues in urging Vice President Mike Pence to raise the unsolved murders during his meeting with Serbian President Vucic. In 2018, Congressman Zeldin urged then-recently confirmed Secretary of State Pompeo to pursue long overdue justice for the Bytyqi Brothers and advocated on behalf of justice for the brothers and their families before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. Earlier this year, Congressman Zeldin secured House Foreign Affairs Committee passage of his resolution (H.Con.Res.20) calling for justice regarding the execution-style murders of the Bytyqi brothers.
12.17.2018	Individuals with disabilities deserve full and equal protection under the law, and one of the reasons why our country is the greatest in the world is our recognition of the need to care for our most vulnerable citizens. Self-sufficiency and independence are values we all cherish as Americans, and that begins with ensuring individuals with disabilities and their families are able to receive the care they need, in a safe and reliable environment, and that they have the tailored tools and resources they need, such as customizable wheelchairs, at a reasonable price. That’s why it was so alarming to learn that in the State of New York, physical abuse of the disabled has been ignored and swept under the rug due to the lack of action taken by the New York State Justice Center for the Protection of People with Special Needs. It is unacceptable that the State of New York continues to receive billions of federal tax dollars to care for these patients while neglecting to investigate suspicious deaths and abuse of patients that happen in their very facilities, and it is clear the state refuses to hold itself accountable. Since its inception in 2013, the Center has neglected its mission and failed to take meaningful steps to address systematic failures, and as such, it is critical the Department of Justice investigate. That's why I was joined by my New York Congressional colleagues, Representatives Peter King, Elise Stefanik and Tom Reed, in calling for a thorough Department of Justice investigation to finally secure justice for individuals with disabilities who have died or were otherwise abused while in state care as a result of criminal misconduct. We cannot allow this to continue. This month, my legislation that protects access to critical equipment for individuals with disabilities passed the House of Representatives. In November of 2014, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services issued a rule stating that accessories used on complex rehabilitative wheelchairs would no longer be a part of the fixed fee schedule and would be subject to competitive bidding pricing, decreasing access to customized wheelchairs and accessories relied on by adults and children with disabilities. This legislation provides a commonsense clarification to ensure those in the Medicare program do not have to go through the difficulty of adjusting to new rules and pricing arbitrarily set by CMS. This will ensure that they have reliable and consistent access to the equipment they need. In August of this year, I had the opportunity to visit Brendan House in Riverhead, a New Beginnings community center aimed at helping Long Islanders with cognitive and physical disabilities. It was an honor to meet Erin Hickey, a Brendan House resident who recently lost both of her legs to a traumatic injury. We must never stop fighting for people like Erin and all others with disabilities. Providing support for those who need it the most has been a principle Americans have stood by for generations, and we must continue to help the many vulnerable men and women who are living with disabilities on Long Island and across the country. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York in the U.S. House of Representatives.
12.14.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement reiterating his call for the swift re-opening of the homeless shelter in Building 11 at Northport VA Medical Center - commonly referred to as “Beacon House” - after it failed to pass fire safety inspection following an extended renovation period: “Building 11 has provided a critical service for our local veterans that have fallen into homelessness, providing shelter on the same campus where they have access to the medical assistance and psychological care which treat, what all too often are, the factors that have driven them into homelessness in the first place. “Anyone who has followed the Northport VA throughout the years knows that there have been many issues due to staffing shortages, aging infrastructure and so much more that comes with running a huge medical center like Northport, but this cannot be an excuse. The men and women who go to Northport have put their lives on the line for us and we must do better. “First and foremost, Building 11 must be reopened as quickly as possible so Long Island’s homeless veterans have access to shelter on the same campus where they can utilize the benefits they have earned. While Northport has assured us that all veterans utilizing Building 11 have been provided shelter, they also must ensure that these veterans are able to get to the medical center to receive the care they need.” According to Northport VA, Building 11 was closed in January 2018 due to stress on its heating system caused by a prolonged period of below average temperatures. While repairing the heating system, it was determined additional repairs were needed, including electrical and asbestos abatement. Due to the extended period of non-occupancy, Building 11 is no longer grandfathered in under previous building codes and must now meet the updated standards for new construction, which has caused this further delay in re-opening. In an effort to open the building as soon as possible, Northport has conveyed that they are making the needed repairs to bring Building 11 up to code and are preparing the statement of work in an effort to begin the bidding process for qualified housing vendors to operate the on-site homeless shelter program. Congressman Zeldin has called on leadership at the Northport VA to expedite this process as much as permissible to get the homeless shelter reopened immediately.
12.12.2018	Watch Rep. Zeldin’s remarks here. WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives, urging Congress to permanently fund the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund and prioritize legislation to do so at the beginning of the next Congress following the Special Master of the fund Rupa Bhattacharyya stating that current funding “may be insufficient to compensate all claims.” The following are Congressman Zeldin’s remarks as prepared for delivery: “I rise today on behalf of our 9/11 first responders and their families, urging all Members of Congress to support passage of the Never Forget the Heroes Act (H.R. 7062), which would permanently fund the 9/11 Victim Compensation Fund and extend its authorization through 2090. “Regardless of party affiliation and regardless of which district or state you come from, it is imperative that right out of the gate of the next Congress starting next month that this new legislation is passed and sent to the President immediately to become law. “First responders who worked on the pile day and night, aiding in the search, rescue and clean up efforts were breathing in toxic debris and ash that are now known to have caused over 50 different types of cancer. “James Zadroga was one of those fearless leaders. He was also the first NYPD officer whose death in 2006 was connected to toxic exposure at the World Trade Center site. The James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act was later signed into law in 2011 to help our 9/11 first responders. “Five years later, the Zadroga Act was permanently reauthorized and included $4.6 billion for the 9/11 Victim Compensation Fund over five-years, which was established to provide compensation for the victims of 9/11 and their families. However, we’re hearing from the Special Master of the fund that this funding “may be insufficient to compensate all claims.” “Representing a district just over 50 miles from Ground Zero, fighting for the Americans affected on September 11th isn’t just my job - it’s personal. Whether it’s losing a loved one or knowing someone who volunteered on the pile, each and everyone of my constituents - including myself - has been affected. “Before Congress passed the permanent reauthorization of the Zadroga Act, I vividly recall so many first responders who had fallen ill were forced to come to our nation’s capital and beg for the benefits they rightfully earned. “These 9/11 responders live not only in New York, but 433 of the 435 Congressional Districts across this country. “This isn’t just a New York issue, this isn’t a Democratic or Republican Party platform or political football, this is a responsibility we all shoulder as Americans first and foremost - it’s the spirit of our nation and it’s who we are as a people. “These were the very men and women who in the face of evil were willing to put it all on the line to help save their fellow Americans, who ran into the towers as everyone ran out. It is unconscionable that time and again they have been forced to come crawling to Washington, D.C. to plead their case as to why they were worthy of our support. "It was heartbreaking and sickening, and I hope we have learned our lesson. “We must pass this legislation at the beginning of the 116th Congress so these first responders don’t have to go through this all again, so they can focus on their health and are not forced to travel to D.C. on their own dime dozens of times for the benefits they have more than earned. “This past September 11th, 17 years since the attacks, we came together as we always do to remember those who were taken from us on that day. But this year, marked an especially harrowing occasion. By the end of this year, it’s anticipated that more people will have died from 9/11 related illnesses than were killed on 9/11 and over 175 of those deaths occurred just this year. “Jimmy Martinez was one of those 175. Diagnosed with bone marrow cancer, he went into remission in 2016, a year after the Zadroga Act’s permanent reauthorization. He responded to the 1993 attack on the World Trade Center, again on 9/11 and came to the aid of so many in the aftermath of Super Storm Sandy. This August, he died a 26-year veteran of the FDNY. “Just as there were so many who fought for the Zadroga Act that were not here to fight for its reauthorization in 2015, Jimmy is just one of the so many who are unable to continue this fight today. “That’s why it’s up to us - to fight for others like Jimmy, for those who risked so much for us, but need our help. “Congress must take action to ensure every family receives the compensation they are entitled to as soon as possible - they have earned nothing less. “On that horrific day, in the face of the worst of humanity, these men and women were the best of it. “In honor of them and the families who carry on their memory, Congress must do its job and permanently fund the 9/11 Victim Compensation Fund. “In the aftermath of 9/11 we vowed we’d never forget, and I’m going to make sure of it.” Congressman Zeldin cosponsors the Never Forget the Heroes: Permanent Authorization of the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund Act (H.R. 7062), which would permanently fund the 9/11 Victim Compensation Fund and extend it's authorization through 2090. In 2015, Congressman Zeldin helped pass the permanent reauthorization of the James Zadroga Act, which included a $3.5 billion permanent extension of the World Trade Center Health Program and a five-year $4.6 billion extension of the Victim Compensation Fund.
12.11.2018	Watch Rep. Zeldin’s remarks here. WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) made the following remarks on the House floor ahead of House passage of the IMPROVE Act, which included his language to protect access to critical equipment for individuals with disabilities, which he first introduced earlier this Congress as H.R. 3730: “Mr. Speaker, Today, I rise to speak in support of language added to the IMPROVE Act that would protect access to critical equipment for individuals with disabilities. “In November of 2014, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services issued a rule stating that accessories used on complex rehabilitative wheelchairs would no longer be a part of the fixed fee schedule and would be subject to competitive bidding pricing, decreasing access to customized wheelchairs and accessories relied on by adults and children with disabilities. “My language included in this legislation will provide a commonsense clarification to ensure those in the Medicare program do not have to go through the difficulty of adjusting to new rules and pricing arbitrarily set by CMS. This will ensure that they have reliable and consistent access to the equipment they need. “I urge my colleagues to protect those with disabilities and their access to the resources they rely on. “Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I yield back.”
12.11.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement regarding the Justice Center’s response to the request yesterday of Representatives Zeldin, Peter King (R, NY-2), Elise Stefanik (R, NY-21) and Tom Reed (R, NY-23), calling on the Department of Justice to investigate the New York State Justice Center for the Protection of People with Special Needs: “Yesterday, rather than embrace and address the need for improvements and accountability at the Justice Center, Christine Buttigieg, the Director of Public Information for the Justice Center, publicly attacked and sought to discredit the call for an investigation, despite our letter to the Justice Department citing detailed fact based reporting by the New York Times, Newsday, Albany Times Union and others. What Ms. Buttigieg and her colleagues at the Justice Center fail to grasp is that none of this media reporting is ‘shameful’, the concerns of victims’ families are not ‘shameful’, and the desire to hold accountable and fix these problems are not ‘shameful’. What is shameful is thinking a Justice Center charter is about avoiding justice while individuals with disabilities are harmed without adequate protection, due process, or recourse. The Justice Center’s visceral reaction to accountability and oversight highlights exactly why a federal investigation is absolutely imperative. The Justice Center’s failures have been widely reported, and their arrogant attempt to deny the truth and the cold facts is a poignant reminder that when protecting themselves is in conflict with protecting individuals with disabilities, New Yorkers with disabilities are the ones who will lose out and be harmed and abandoned.” From yesterday’s press release from Representatives Zeldin, King, Stefanik and Reed: Many allegations related to staff abuses, patient neglect, sexual assaults and even patient deaths have been reported over the last few years, yet the New York State Justice Center, which is authorized to investigate all reports of abuse and neglect, pursue administrative sanctions against staff found responsible for misconduct, and prosecute criminal offenses through its Special Prosecutor/Inspector General sharing jurisdiction with local district attorneys, has consistently failed to perform these responsibilities and continues to operate without any added oversight or scrutiny. Since its inception in 2013, the Center has failed to take meaningful steps to address systematic failures, and as such, it is critical the Department of Justice investigate. “Individuals with disabilities deserve full and equal protection under the law. However, in the State of New York, abuses have been ignored and swept under the rug due to the lack of action taken by the New York State Justice Center for the Protection of People with Special Needs,” said Congressman Lee Zeldin. “It is unacceptable that the State of New York continues to pocket billions of federal tax dollars to care for these patients while neglecting to investigate suspicious deaths of patients that happen in their very facilities, and it is clear the State of New York refuses to hold itself accountable. It is critical that there is a thorough investigation to finally secure justice for individuals with disabilities who have died in state care as a result of criminal misconduct.” President of the Jonathan Carey Foundation Michael Carey said, “The NYS Justice Center is ensuring that staggering numbers of sexual assault crimes and deaths of children and adults with disabilities are covered-up internally and never prosecuted. This corrupt agency is not protecting people with special needs, but instead obstructing justice by purposefully keeping most reported crimes from the local police and county district attorneys. Federal authorities must intervene swiftly to stop the criminal cover-ups and to end the wide-scale discrimination in which the disabled are denied their 14th Amendment right to ‘equal protection of laws.’ The Justice Center must be stopped, it is directly involved in a massive Medicaid fraud scheme by protecting dangerous facilities that are misappropriating massive amounts of federal tax dollars.” The Jirak Family, whose son died in state-care in Suffolk County in 2015 said, “The investigation of the NY State Justice Center for the ‘Protection’ of People with Special Needs must commence immediately. Our most vulnerable citizens are not receiving the due process they are guaranteed by law, and without immediate action, needless abuse and further deaths will continue.” A signed PDF of the letter is available here. Full text of the letter is as follows: U.S. Department of Justice Civil Rights Division 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Office of the Assistant Attorney General, Main Washington, D.C. 20530 We write today regarding the New York State Justice Center for the Protection of People with Special Needs’ (the Center’s) inability to ensure the protection of individuals with special needs. Many allegations relating to staff abuses, patient neglect, sexual assaults and even patient deaths have been reported, yet the Center consistently fails to act in an appropriate manner and continues to operate without any necessary additional oversight or scrutiny. Since its inception in 2013, the Center has failed to take meaningful steps to address systematic failures, and as such, we request the Department of Justice investigate due process violations and other criminal offenses that the Center has not addressed. While the Center claims to have the legal authority to prosecute criminal cases against disabled persons, the Center brings criminal charges against less than 2.5% of total cases of substantiated abuse or neglect of disabled persons and has declined to investigate nearly 1,400 deaths of developmentally disabled individuals residing in state care. Further, it is our understanding that the Center has frequently neglected to report instances of ongoing abuse to law enforcement. Records obtained and published by the New York Times indicate that only 5% of the 13,000 cases of abuse recorded in state-operated facilities for the disabled were referred to law enforcement. In April 2018, a 34 year old male was found dead in his room a day after complaining of having trouble breathing, however no official investigation has been conducted to date past an insufficient internal review conducted by the care facility. Instead of referring the overwhelming majority of cases to law enforcement officials, the Center allowed facilities to conduct internal reviews, which often times included disciplinary actions unbefitting of the allegations. In fact, through information obtained by Freedom of Information Law requests filed, the New York Department of Health (NYDOH) revealed that it never received a case from the Justice Center between June 30, 2013, and April 1, 2016. This failure to report to NYDOH appears to violate the provision within the Center’s founding charter which mandates that it forward substantiated reports of abuse and neglect to the Medicaid Inspector General. This practice is troublesome as the Center’s encouragement of internal reviews such as this discourages transparency and public reporting of inappropriate and potentially criminal acts. Additionally, the Albany Times Union reported at least 25 registered sex offenders residing in state-run facilities for the developmentally disabled in Suffolk, Washington and Franklin Counties, and these are just 3 counties of New York State. One former New York special prosecutor and inspector general, Patricia Gunning, investigated strangulation assault at State facilities. Ms. Gunning’s investigation, as reported by Newsday, was rejected and denied by state officials concerned about “the optics” of this subject. When Ms. Gunning brought this complaint up the chain to the state’s employment assistance program, she was warned it would destroy her career. Soon after, Ms. Gunning was told that the Governor’s office wanted to take the Justice Center in a “new direction,” and was subsequently fired. This clear lack of appropriate oversight must be fully investigated for the appropriate parties to be held accountable and to ensure that these practices cease immediately. New York spends over $75 billion per year on its Medicaid program, second only to California, but fails to properly take care of its most vulnerable population by an independent statewide level law enforcement agency designed to protect disabled individuals.This is a blatant misuse of taxpayer dollars and an investigation is critical. Individuals with disabilities deserve full and equal protection under the law, however, disabled individuals in New York State have been unable to avail themselves of the criminal justice system due to the lack of action taken by the Center. Therefore, we request the Department of Justice investigate the lack of prosecutions, referrals and due process violations that have been alleged. Thank you in advance for your time and attention to this matter.
12.10.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was joined by Reps. Peter King (R, NY-2), Elise Stefanik (R, NY-21) and Tom Reed (R, NY-23) requesting that the Department of Justice investigate the New York State Justice Center for the Protection of People with Special Needs’ failure to protect individuals with disabilities and Medicaid recipients who have died under state care, including nine who died while in state care in Suffolk County since 2013. Dozens of allegations related to staff abuses, patient neglect, sexual assaults and even patient deaths have been reported over the last few years, yet the New York State Justice Center, which is authorized to investigate all reports of abuse and neglect, pursue administrative sanctions against staff found responsible for misconduct, and prosecute criminal offenses through its Special Prosecutor/Inspector General sharing jurisdiction with local district attorneys, has consistently failed to perform these responsibilities and continues to operate without any added oversight or scrutiny. Since its inception in 2013, the Center has failed to take meaningful steps to address systematic failures, and as such, it is critical the Department of Justice investigate. “Individuals with disabilities deserve full and equal protection under the law. However, in the State of New York, abuses have been ignored and swept under the rug due to the lack of action taken by the New York State Justice Center for the Protection of People with Special Needs,” said Congressman Lee Zeldin. “It is unacceptable that the State of New York continues to pocket billions of federal tax dollars to care for these patients while neglecting to investigate suspicious deaths of patients that happen in their very facilities, and it is clear the State of New York refuses to hold itself accountable. It is critical that there is a thorough investigation to finally secure justice for individuals with disabilities who have died in state care as a result of criminal misconduct.” President of the Jonathan Carey Foundation Michael Carey said, “The NYS Justice Center is ensuring that staggering numbers of sexual assault crimes and deaths of children and adults with disabilities are covered-up internally and never prosecuted. This corrupt agency is not protecting people with special needs, but instead obstructing justice by purposefully keeping most reported crimes from the local police and county district attorneys. Federal authorities must intervene swiftly to stop the criminal cover-ups and to end the wide-scale discrimination in which the disabled are denied their 14th Amendment right to ‘equal protection of laws.’ The Justice Center must be stopped, it is directly involved in a massive Medicaid fraud scheme by protecting dangerous facilities that are misappropriating massive amounts of federal tax dollars.” The Jirak Family, whose son died in state-care in Suffolk County in 2015 said, “The investigation of the NY State Justice Center for the ‘Protection’ of People with Special Needs must commence immediately. Our most vulnerable citizens are not receiving the due process they are guaranteed by law, and without immediate action, needless abuse and further deaths will continue.” A signed PDF of the letter is available here. Full text of the letter is as follows: U.S. Department of Justice Civil Rights Division 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Office of the Assistant Attorney General, Main Washington, D.C. 20530 We write today regarding the New York State Justice Center for the Protection of People with Special Needs’ (the Center’s) inability to ensure the protection of individuals with special needs. Many allegations relating to staff abuses, patient neglect, sexual assaults and even patient deaths have been reported, yet the Center consistently fails to act in an appropriate manner and continues to operate without any necessary additional oversight or scrutiny. Since its inception in 2013, the Center has failed to take meaningful steps to address systematic failures, and as such, we request the Department of Justice investigate due process violations and other criminal offenses that the Center has not addressed. While the Center claims to have the legal authority to prosecute criminal cases against disabled persons, the Center brings criminal charges against less than 2.5% of total cases of substantiated abuse or neglect of disabled persons and has declined to investigate nearly 1,400 deaths of developmentally disabled individuals residing in state care. Further, it is our understanding that the Center has frequently neglected to report instances of ongoing abuse to law enforcement. Records obtained and published by the New York Times indicate that only 5% of the 13,000 cases of abuse recorded in state-operated facilities for the disabled were referred to law enforcement. In April 2018, a 34 year old male was found dead in his room a day after complaining of having trouble breathing, however no official investigation has been conducted to date past an insufficient internal review conducted by the care facility. Instead of referring the overwhelming majority of cases to law enforcement officials, the Center allowed facilities to conduct internal reviews, which often times included disciplinary actions unbefitting of the allegations. In fact, through information obtained by Freedom of Information Law requests filed, the New York Department of Health (NYDOH) revealed that it never received a case from the Justice Center between June 30, 2013, and April 1, 2016. This failure to report to NYDOH appears to violate the provision within the Center’s founding charter which mandates that it forward substantiated reports of abuse and neglect to the Medicaid Inspector General. This practice is troublesome as the Center’s encouragement of internal reviews such as this discourages transparency and public reporting of inappropriate and potentially criminal acts. Additionally, the Albany Times Union reported at least 25 registered sex offenders residing in state-run facilities for the developmentally disabled in Suffolk, Washington and Franklin Counties, and these are just 3 counties of New York State. One former New York special prosecutor and inspector general, Patricia Gunning, investigated strangulation assault at State facilities. Ms. Gunning’s investigation, as reported by Newsday, was rejected and denied by state officials concerned about “the optics” of this subject. When Ms. Gunning brought this complaint up the chain to the state’s employment assistance program, she was warned it would destroy her career. Soon after, Ms. Gunning was told that the Governor’s office wanted to take the Justice Center in a “new direction,” and was subsequently fired. This clear lack of appropriate oversight must be fully investigated for the appropriate parties to be held accountable and to ensure that these practices cease immediately. New York spends over $75 billion per year on its Medicaid program, second only to California, but fails to properly take care of its most vulnerable population by an independent statewide level law enforcement agency designed to protect disabled individuals.This is a blatant misuse of taxpayer dollars and an investigation is critical. Individuals with disabilities deserve full and equal protection under the law, however, disabled individuals in New York State have been unable to avail themselves of the criminal justice system due to the lack of action taken by the Center. Therefore, we request the Department of Justice investigate the lack of prosecutions, referrals and due process violations that have been alleged. Thank you in advance for your time and attention to this matter.
12.04.2018	PORT JEFFERSON, N.Y. – Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined federal and state environmental officials from New York and New England to announce 36 grants totaling $2.57 million awarded to local governments and community groups to improve the health and vitality of the Long Island Sound. The activities funded through the Long Island Sound Futures Fund (LISFF) show how projects led by local groups and communities make a big difference in improving water quality and restoring habitat around the Long Island Sound watershed. This grant program combines funds from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation (NFWF). The LISFF 2018 grants will reach more than 1.7 million residents through environmental education programs and conservation projects. Water quality improvement projects will treat 1.9 million gallons of water and collect 37,000 pounds of floating trash. The projects will open up six miles of river and restore 18 acres of coastal habitat for fish and wildlife. The grants will be matched by $3.09 million from the grantees resulting in $5.67 million in funding for on-the-ground conservation projects in New York, Connecticut, Massachusetts and Vermont. The Long Island Sound Study initiated the LISFF in 2005 through EPA’s Long Island Sound Office and NFWF. To date, the LISFF has invested $19.6 million in 416 projects. The program has generated an additional $36 million in grantee match, for a total conservation impact of $55.6 million for locally based projects. The projects have opened up 163 river miles for fish passage, restored 1,109 acres of critical fish and wildlife habitat and open space, treated 204 million gallons of pollution, and educated and engaged 4.7 million people. Earlier this year, Congressman Lee Zeldin secured a long-term reauthorization for the EPA’s Long Island Sound Program at $65 million per year for 5 years, which previously had not been reauthorized since 2006 at $25 million per year. Additionally, $26.7 million in funding was secured for the EPA’s National Estuary Program. “As Co-Chairman of the Long Island Sound Caucus, I understand that the Long Island Sound is a regional and national treasure, as well as a critical economic, recreational and environmental resource,” said Congressman Lee Zeldin. “The $2.57 million investment in these 36 programs around the Long Island Sound Watershed will allow us to continue to improve the health and vitality of the Sound. These community projects will make a real difference in continuing our progress towards cleaning up Long Island Sound. The partnerships funded by today’s grants show our commitment to the health of the Sound and to ensuring that our children and grandchildren can enjoy it for generations to come.” “I know all of us share great excitement with, and are energized by, the depth and breadth of community commitment evidenced by these projects,” said EPA Regional Administrator Pete Lopez. “They give New Yorkers the opportunity to support pollution prevention, stormwater control, wetland and habitat restoration, water monitoring and public education as effective ways to enhance long-term stewardship of Long Island Sound, while promoting its sustainable recreational and economic uses.” “The Futures Fund grants provide millions of dollars in funding for important local projects to protect Long Island Sound by addressing pollution and restoring valuable habitats,” said EPA New England Regional Administrator Alexandra Dunn. “EPA is committed to working with conservation partners and local communities to protect and restore iconic waters like Long Island Sound that are among our nation’s most precious natural resources.” “By restoring estuaries and conserving habitats, the grants announced today will enhance the resilience of coastal communities," said Jeff Trandahl, Executive Director and CEO of NFWF. “These grants represent NFWF’s continued commitment to improving the health of rivers, coastal marshes, forests and grasslands for the benefit of local communities and fish and wildlife in Long Island Sound.” “The Long Island Sound is a precious natural resource whose value extends far beyond its many beloved beaches,” said Basil Seggos, Commissioner of the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation. “While the Sound is home to a rich array of wildlife and scenery enjoyed by visitors year-round, it also hosts habitats that provide enormous ecosystem services to the surrounding communities. These ecosystems will continue to protect and inspire us for as long as we work to ensure their health. The Long Island Sound Futures Fund does that by funding projects that promote healthy waterways and habitats, as well as by engaging local communities in their care and protection. The DEC congratulates and thanks all the awardees contributing to this effort.” “Over the years, important projects have been funded that promoted habitat restoration of coastal wetland areas as well as watershed management projects and opening many miles riverine habitat for the passage of migratory fish to spawn,” said Rob Klee, Commissioner, Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection. “We have also witnessed the impacts of climate change, with additional projects funded to assist with improving resiliency and sustainability of our coastal and watershed habitats. This year is no different as we celebrate the awarding of over $2 Million to 20 Connecticut projects and 4 recipients in the Connecticut River watershed portions of Massachusetts and Vermont that ensure protection and preservation of this valuable estuary. We are pleased that over $300,000 is being awarded to Connecticut projects supporting resiliency and living shorelines restoration as well as marine spatial planning of the Long Island Sound Blue Plan. These projects and more, will continue to build on our efforts to protect and improve the health of Long Island Sound fostering improved water quality, habitat restoration, coastal stewardship, watershed based management, and public involvement and education.” LONG ISLAND SOUND FUTURES FUND 2018 PROJECTS BENEFITING NEW YORK Habitat Restoration Planning and Environmental Stewardship at Hallock State Park Preserve (NY) Group for the East End Project Area: Hallock State Park Preserve, Riverhead, New York LISFF Grant: $67,542; Matching Grant: $101,371 Group for the East End will conduct public and partner outreach, education programs and environmental stewardship activities, remove invasive plants, and develop habitat restoration plans for management of the 225 acre Hallock State Park Preserve, Riverhead, New York. The project activities and planning will inform restoration of natural resource and protect future cultural and recreational use. Planning and Coordination for Coastal Forest Habitat Management in Bronx Park (NY) City Parks Foundation Project Area: Bronx Park, Bronx, New York LISFF Grant: $99,810; Matching Grant: $76,000 City Parks Foundation will develop a management plan for 170 acres of coastal maritime forest in the Bronx Park, Bronx, New York. This project will contribute to targeted restoration and management of coastal maritime forest in an important urban Long Island Sound watershed. Producing and Implementing a Community-supported Long Island Sound Blue Plan (CT, NY) The Nature Conservancy, Connecticut Project Location: Coastal communities in CT and NY that border Long Island Sound LISFF Grant: $44,986; Matching Grant: $51,904 The Nature Conservancy, Connecticut will finalize the Long Island Sound Blue Plan in Connecticut and New York. The project will create a community-supported plan to protect marine life in Long Island Sound. Sustainability Planning for the Town of Harrison (NY) Town of Harrison Project Area: Town of Harrison, New York LISFF Grant: $45,000; Matching Grant: $45,000 The Town of Harrison will develop a drainage manual in Harrison, New York. The project will set the stage for implementation of Green Infrastructure projects to address stormwater pollution into Long Island Sound. Hempstead Harbor 2019 Water Quality Monitoring Program XI (NY) Village of Sea Cliff Project Area: Hempstead Harbor, Nassau, County, New York LISFF Grant: $75,000; Matching Grant: $65,484 The Coalition to Save Hempstead Harbor will conduct water quality monitoring in Hempstead Harbor, Nassau County, New York. The project will inform management of Hempstead Harbor, an embayment of Long Island Sound. Be a Good Egg III-Share the Shore with Shorebirds (NY) Audubon New York Project Area: Theodore Roosevelt Sanctuary, Oyster Bay, New York; Oyster Bay, Crab Meadow, Nissequogue River, Stony Brook Harbor, Hallock State Park/Mattituck State Tidal Wetlands, and Plum and Gull Islands, New York LISFF Grant: $41,009; Matching Grant: $41,757 Audubon New York will provide an environmental education program “Be a Good Egg,” encouraging people to share the shore with shorebirds on Long Island, New York. This project will engage people to reduce threats to these birds including piping plover, least tern, common tern, and American oystercatcher. Going Strawless for Sea Turtles: Educating to Protect Marine Life and Eliminate Single-use Plastics (NY) Citizens Campaign Fund for the Environment Project Area: Nassau and Suffolk Counties, Long Island Sound Watershed, New York LISFF Grant: $45,000; Matching Grant: $45,000 Citizens Campaign Fund for the Environment will conduct comprehensive public education to reduce the use of plastic polluting Long Island Sound beaches, bays, and harbors in Nassau and Suffolk Counties, New York. This project will gather 500 pledges from people to reduce common throw-away plastic use and engage ~200 volunteers in coastal cleanups. Rain Gardens at Port Jefferson Harbor: Linking Water, Wildlife and Waterways (NY) The Maritime Explorium Project Area: Village of Port Jefferson, New York LISFF Grant: $43,626; Matching Grant: $79,067 The Maritime Explorium will install native plant rain gardens with 80 volunteers in high-visibility public sites and provide natural landscaping guidance to 400 community members in Port Jefferson, New York. The project will demonstrate to 800,000+ visitors using the Bridgeport-Port Jefferson ferry how rain gardens improve the water quality and biodiversity of Long Island Sound. Expanding Environmental Stewardship in the Alley Creek Watershed (NY) New York City Department of Parks and Recreation Project Area: Alley Pond Park, Douglaston, Queens, New York LISFF Grant: $45,000; Matching Grant: $45,000 New York City Department of Parks and Recreation will expand the Shorekeepers program at Alley Creek Park, Queens, New York. The project will engage 200+ volunteers and develop a corps of 20+ “Super Stewards” to enhance long-term stewardship of ongoing tidal wetland and coastal forest restoration in this park on Long Island Sound. Long Island Sound Beach Cleanup 2018 - VI (NY) American Littoral Society Project Area: Westchester County, Bronx County, Queens County, Suffolk County and Nassau County, Long Island Sound Watershed, New York LISFF Grant: $10,000; Matching Grant: $376,498 American Littoral Society will deliver cleanups along 191 miles of shoreline at 58 sites in the Long Island Sound watershed of New York. This project will engage 5,000 volunteers to collect 35,000 lbs. of trash from shorelines, and to teach participants about preventing marine pollution into Long Island Sound. Sound Effects: A Public Conservation Education Series (NY) The Whaling Museum Society Project Area: The Whaling Museum & Education Center, Cold Spring Harbor, New York LISFF Grant: $9,998; Matching Grant: $5,050 The Whaling Museum Society will deliver a year-long public education series with hands-on learning and conservation-based activities to inform people about the effects of pollution on Long Island Sound. The project will teach 350 adult and elementary school audiences about actions they can take to improve the health of the Sound. Celebration of Long Island Sound at SUNY Maritime College (NY) State University of New York (SUNY), Maritime College Project Area: SUNY Maritime College, Throggs Neck, New York LISFF Grant: $7,665; Matching Grant: $13,248 The SUNY-Maritime College will host “Celebration of the Long Island Sound” providing an array of educational, recreational on-the-water and stewardship activities to the community in Throggs Neck, New York. The project will build awareness about and connect ~500 students and residents to the Sound in an annual celebration. Bringing Environmental Stewardship to the 2019 Play2Learn Festival (NY) Town of Harrison Project Area: Town of Harrison, New York LISFF Grant: $6,750; Matching Grant: $7,500 The Town of Harrison will expand the annual Play2Learn Festival to incorporate a Long Island Sound-based Play Zone in Harrison, New York. This project will introduce children to the Sound using a series of educational stations to foster development of a stronger understanding of their relationship to the Sound practical actions families can take to protect and restore it. Partnering for Marine Debris & Trash Prevention and Animal Rescue around Long Island Sound (CT, NY) Mystic Aquarium Project Area: Mystic, New London, Norwich and Hartford, Connecticut; and Fisher's Island, New York LISFF Grant: $44,587; Matching Grant: $46,062 Mystic Aquarium will offer education and stewardship opportunities focused the impact of marine debris on marine species engaging coastal and non-coastal communities in Connecticut and New York. The project will engage 250 volunteers to monitor coastlines for species affected by the debris, build public awareness about the issue, and remove ~1,600 pounds of marine debris and trash before entering Long Island Sound.
12.03.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - On Monday, December 3, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted a holiday luncheon in his Patchogue office for local law enforcement to thank them for their service to our communities especially during the holiday season.
12.03.2018	Op-Ed by Congressman Lee Zeldin Our nation’s servicemen and women have put their lives on the line in defense of the freedoms and liberties that make this country the greatest in the world. It is thanks to them that we have the opportunity to wake up each and everyday safe and free. On the battlefield, is it critical we provide them with the resources they need to safely and effectively do their jobs, but it is equally as important to give them our unwavering support as they transition back into civilian life. It is my belief that no matter what we do today to assist our nation’s veterans that we should wake up tomorrow identifying what else needs to be done. For example, three issues of focus that must be addressed with urgency relate to the underpayment of GI Bill benefits, new service connected illnesses related to burn pits, and the closure of the Beacon House in Northport. We are reminded that our work fighting for our nation’s veterans is never finished. After the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) failed to comply with the technological upgrades mandated under the Forever GI Bill, 19 members of the New York Congressional delegation called on the VA to rectify this immediately as the beginning of the academic year was quickly approaching. However, last week, we heard concerning reports that the VA failed to provide the proper amount of housing stipends to student veterans, and that the VA would not process retroactive payments for underpaid or missed claims. While the VA has since promised that all veterans will be “made whole,” there have been limited details regarding the method and timing of back paying these veterans. It is unacceptable to require any veteran to bear a financial burden due to the VA’s inability to comply with the law. Immediate, total relief must be provided to the veterans impacted. In addition to providing educational opportunities for our nation’s veterans, the VA also bears the responsibility of providing health care for our servicemen and women, a responsibility that requires them to adapt to the ever-changing service-connected illnesses experienced by veterans. For example, in Iraq and Afghanistan, burn pits were used as a means of waste disposal on military bases, which expelled plumes of smoke into the air on the base. Last week, an Augusta University study was released that showed service members exposed to burn pits had a higher likelihood of contracting cancer. However, without concrete data to show a direct correlation between the two, the VA is currently covering these illnesses only on a case-by-case basis, not across the board. That’s why I supported and the President signed into law, an additional $5 million to study the effects of burn pits on our servicemen and women overseas. More must be done. While the VA continues to study the correlation between burn pits and a higher rate of contracting cancer, which could take years, they cannot leave these servicemen and women without the care they have earned. Transitioning back into civilian life presents a host of challenges, and when coupled with a service-connected disability or mental illness can lead to an increase in veteran homelessness. Boasting the highest number of veterans in New York and one of the highest in the nation, Suffolk County is no exception. Beacon House, right on Northport VA’s campus, has provided such a critical service, sheltering homeless veterans all while in close proximity to many other services they need, which is why it’s closure since last January has hit the veteran community hard and reports of its continued closure are even more troubling. Originally closed for infrastructure updates, the closure has now been extended because the building is no longer grandfathered in under the fire codes it met upon its original closure and is not in compliance with new fire codes. Anyone who has followed Northport over the years, knows that there have been a lot of issues due to staffing shortages, aging infrastructure and so much more that come with running a huge health center like Northport, but that cannot be an excuse. The men and women who go to Northport for their care have put their lives on the line for us and they deserve the highest quality care. From Northport on Long Island to the VA in Washington, D.C., we must do better for our nation’s veterans. Failure is not an option, and just as our veterans have never stopped fighting for us, we must never stop fighting for them and the benefits and services they have more than earned. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York in the U.S. House of Representatives.
12.01.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement following the passing of President George H.W. Bush: “Today, America mourns a giant - a man who led our nation out from under the shrouds of the Cold War, a patriot who fought for the freedoms and liberties that make this country the greatest in the world, and a patriarch who led his family to serve our great democracy for generations. We are forever grateful for President Bush’s service and dedication, and my thoughts and prayers are with his children and grandchildren, who will carry on his eternal legacy.”
11.29.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined a bipartisan, bicameral coalition of Members of Congress in front of the U.S. Capitol, including conservation leaders and outdoor recreation advocates, to call on Congress to reauthorize and fully fund the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). “In my district alone, the Land and Water Conservation Fund has provided funding for over 65 parks, supporting public access, fishing, hunting, recreation and our environment without taking a dime of taxpayer money,” said Representative Lee Zeldin (R-NY). “On Long Island, our coastal economy is a vital component of our overall economy, and clean water, land and air are essential priorities all protected by the LWCF. I’ve been proud to lead the fight to permanently reauthorize this important fund in the House, and I will continue to do so on behalf of my district and communities across our country.” "Two months ago, America lost one of its best conservation tools,” said Lynn Scarlett, Former Deputy Secretary of the Department of Interior and head of External Affairs at The Nature Conservancy. “The Land and Water Conservation Fund helps protect national parks, expand outdoor recreation opportunities and bolster local economies, all at no cost to the American taxpayer. It’s too important to continue leaving its future in doubt. Now more than ever, we have the bipartisan momentum to get LWCF the permanent reauthorization and full funding it deserves. For the protection of our lands, waters and the benefits their conservation bring to communities and our economy, now is the time to save LWCF.” “Since it was enacted 54 years ago, the Land and Water Conservation Fund has helped protect many of the nation’s most popular national parks, forests, and public lands. It has provided millions of Americans the opportunity to hunt, fish, hike, vacation and enjoy the beauty of nature and our great American landscapes,” said Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA). “It has pumped billions of dollars into the outdoor economy and provided millions of good jobs." “Protecting our public lands is good for the environment, it’s good for the economy and it’s good for the health and welfare of our people. Money made available through the Land and Water Conservation Fund is money well spent,” Senator Cantwell added. “The Land and Water Conservation Fund remains the single most successful conservation program in American history,” said Senator Richard Burr (R-NC). “Nearly every congressional district in the country benefits from its funding – at no cost to the taxpayer – and millions enjoy the parks, ballfields, and landscapes it maintains every day. My colleagues and I will continue to push for a permanent reauthorization of this important program.” “Colorado’s beautiful public lands rely on the Land and Water Conservation Fund and Congress needs to ensure it remains in place for years to come,” said Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO). “I’ll continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure that we do what is right and permanently reauthorize and fully fund this vital outdoors conservation program.” “LWCF is the best tool we have to increase public access to our public lands and power our outdoor economy,” said Senator Jon Tester (D-MT). “It’s long past time to permanently reauthorize and fully fund this successful initiative so that we can create more jobs, protect our streams and landscapes, and increase outdoor recreation opportunities.” “As a fifth generation Montanan, and as someone who has raised four kids in the state, I cherish all of our time spent hiking, fishing, and hunting on our public lands,” said Senator Steve Daines (R-MT). “We must always protect and expand access to those public lands, and that’s why I will continue to fight until we get permanent reauthorization and full funding for LWCF signed into law.” “The Land and Water Conservation Fund is America's most successful conservation program. LWCF expands opportunities for outdoor traditions like hunting, camping, and fishing that are among the pillars of Western culture,” said Senator Martin Heinrich (D-NM). “In New Mexico, LWCF has helped preserve many treasured places—including the Valles Caldera, Ute Mountain, and Valle de Oro National Wildlife Refuge—that power our thriving outdoor recreation economy. It also protects our drinking water, provides public land access, and ensures there are neighborhood parks, soccer fields, and baseball diamonds for our children. I will continue to do everything in my power to permanently and fully fund LWCF to ensure that the outdoor places we all treasure will be protected for future generations to enjoy.” “LWCF is our country’s most important and successful conservation and outdoor recreation program,” said Senator Susan Collins (R-ME). “This program has created outdoor recreation opportunities in every county across the country. Over the last five decades, nearly $188 million in LWCF funding has been provided to Maine to preserve public spaces from Acadia National Park to local parks. It is critical that we reauthorize LWCF, as it ensures both current and future generations can enjoy the beauty of our natural resources.” “The expiration of a widely popular program like LWCF demonstrates just how broken Washington is. If we don’t want to find ourselves in this exact position again down the road, we must permanently reauthorize LWCF. And if we want to grow our outdoor recreation economy and protect treasured landscapes, we must fully fund it. I’ll keep working across the aisle to find a solution that gives this conservation tool the longevity and funding it deserves,” said Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO). “Not only has the LWCF been used to protect iconic landscapes across the nation, it also helps to build playgrounds and swimming pools in urban districts like my own. In the House Natural Resources Committee, I was proud to be part of a bipartisan compromise to move this issue forward. With support from both chambers and on both sides of the aisle, permanent reauthorization of the LWCF should be a no-brainer,” said Representative Ruben Gallego (D-AZ). “Since its establishment over 50 years ago, the Land and Water Conservation Fund has promoted recreational activity and contributed to our nation’s robust economy, along with conserving our national parks, forests, and critical wildlife areas,” said Representative Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA). “Today, we are demanding that Congressional leadership permanently reauthorize and fully fund the Land and Water Conservation Fund. The time is now to act.” “We all know that the protection of our nation’s public lands, the health of our local communities and the continued growth of the $887 billion outdoor recreation economy are uniquely intertwined and bolstered by the Land and Water Conservation Fund,” said Amy Roberts, Executive Director of the Outdoor Industry Association. “Given all this, the fact we have a motivated and bipartisan group of lawmakers here today – it is well past time for Congress to reaffirm its commitment to our public lands, community health, and the surging outdoor recreation economy by permanently reauthorizing LWCF before Congress adjourns in December.” About the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF): The Land and Water Conservation Fund is responsible for protecting parks, trails, wildlife refuges and recreation areas at the federal, state and local level. For more than 50 years, it has provided critical funding for land and water conservation projects, access to recreation including hunting and fishing, and the continued historic preservation of our nation’s iconic landmarks from coast-to-coast. LWCF does not use any taxpayer dollars – it is funded using a small portion of revenues from offshore oil and gas royalty payments. Outdoor recreation, conservation and historic preservation activities contribute more than $887 billion annually to the U.S. economy, supporting 7.6 million jobs. About the LWCF Coalition The LWCF Coalition is comprised of more than 1,000 state and regional conservation and recreation organizations of all sizes, land owners, small businesses, ranchers, sportsmen, veterans, the outdoor recreation industry and conservationists working together to protect America’s public lands and safeguard our shared outdoor heritage for future generations. The Coalition is united in its advocacy for the permanent reauthorization and full funding of the Land and Water Conservation Fund, which will ensure the continued conservation of our national parks, forests, wildlife refuges, wilderness, civil war battlefields, working lands and state and local parks. For more information on LWCF and the places in each state that LWCF funds have protected, visit www.lwcfcoalition.org.
11.29.2018	WASHINGTON - On Wednesday, November 28, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Co-Chairman of the Long Island Sound Caucus, was joined by Congressman Tom Suozzi (D, NY-3), Congressman Eliot Engel (D, NY-16), and Congressman Jim Himes (D, CT-4), meeting with local representatives of Save the Sound, Citizens Campaign for the Environment, Sierra Club, Audubon Society, Long Island Sound Study Citizens Advisory Committee and others to discuss saving Plum Island, restoring the Long Island Sound and other local environmental priorities.
11.19.2018	From the North Shore Helicopter Route’s planning to its continued use, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has flat out ignored the residents directly affected by the persistent issue of helicopter noise. Established in 2004, the route’s renewal was jammed through again in 2016 without a public hearing or public comment period and against the wishes of those affected on the East End. The FAA and Department of Transportation have sole jurisdiction over the aircraft routes that have impacted these communities, but they have turned their backs on the residents whose quality of life has suffered summer after summer. On behalf of my constituents, I introduced a bipartisan legislative proposal that became law requiring the FAA to reassess the North Shore Helicopter Route to address the noise impact on affected communities, improve altitude enforcement and assess alternative routes, including an all water route over the Atlantic Ocean. Additionally, it would require the FAA to hold a public hearing on the NSR in impacted communities and open a public comment period. Working across the aisle, I secured House and Senate passage of this proposal, including it in this year’s FAA Reauthorization Act, which was signed into law on October 5, 2018. With the enactment of this legislation, the FAA was now required to hold a public hearing and open a public comment period for my constituents affected by this route, and, in a failed effort to comply with this new legislation, recently held a series of “workshops” across Long Island. Although the FAA is now forced to listen as enshrined in federal law, these “workshops” have given Long Islanders a bad case of deja vu. These “workshops” fail to comply with the public hearing mandated in this new law, and many strongly believe they were seemingly formatted to stifle the true negative impact of this route. The FAA was required by law to hold a public hearing within 30 days of enactment of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018, which was signed into law on October 5th. On the heels of these “workshops”, Senator Schumer and myself each just sent a letter to the FAA Eastern Region Regional Administrator underscoring the fact that these forums fail to comply with federal law and demanding the FAA hold a public hearing immediately. The FAA must understand the gravity of this situation, the widespread adverse impact the North Shore Helicopter Route has had on so many Long Islanders’ everyday lives, and they will do so by hearing from everyone affected. It is imperative that the FAA schedule this public hearing immediately, and address the concerns and improve the quality of life of impacted Long Islanders. My message to concerned constituents is this: Don’t allow your family member’s or neighbor’s comment speak for you. Everyone must submit their comment to the FAA on or before January 2, 2019, by visiting the public comment period webpage online here. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York in the U.S. House of Representatives.
11.16.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Following this week’s three “workshops” hosted by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) in Garden City, Riverhead and Flushing on the continued use of the North Shore Helicopter Route, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement and sent the following letter to FAA Eastern Region Regional Administrator Jennifer Solomon: “From the North Shore Helicopter Route’s planning to its continued use, the FAA has flat out ignored the residents directly affected, and, although the FAA is now forced to listen as enshrined in federal law, these ‘workshops’ have given Long Islanders a bad case of deja vu. These ‘workshops’ fail to comply with the public hearing mandated in my legislative proposal which is now law, and many strongly believe they were seemingly formatted to stifle the true negative impact of this route. The FAA was required by law to hold a public hearing within 30 days of enactment of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018, which was signed into law on October 5, 2018. It is imperative that the FAA schedule this public hearing immediately, and address the concerns and improve the quality of life of impacted Long Islanders.” PDF of the signed letter is available here. Full text of the letter is as follows: Jennifer Solomon Regional Administrator Eastern Region Federal Aviation Administration 1 Aviation Plaza Jamaica, NY 11434-4809 Dear Regional Administrator Solomon, As a follow up to our phone conversation yesterday, I write to express grave concern that following passage into law of a requirement for the FAA to hold a public hearing on the North Shore Helicopter Route (NSR) within 30 days of enactment that the FAA instead chose to hold “workshops” this week. The needs of my constituents on the East End of Long Island will not be ignored by the Federal Aviation Administration Eastern Region. This decision to not hold a public hearing within 30 days as required by federal law is entirely unacceptable. This week, the series of “workshops” held on Long Island in an attempt to comply with the requirements laid out in the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 were an insult to my constituents and did not meet the explicit requirements in my legislative proposal included in Section 182 of the law requiring the FAA to hold a public hearing in the communities impacted by the North Shore Helicopter Route. Not only were these “workshops” a failure to comply with the public hearing mandated in this new law, but many strongly believe they were seemingly formatted to stifle the true negative impact of this route, the degradation of day to day quality of life on so many residents on the East End. I urge you to immediately schedule this public hearing and listen to the people of my district in a transparent and open format. These are the people whose quality of life have been so negatively impacted by the aircraft noise imposed on their communities by the deeply flawed NSR and they deserve to be heard. It’s the law. Another critical requirement enshrined in law that the FAA must comply with is the transparent public comment process mandated in Section 182 of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018. With the current comment process underway, it is imperative that the FAA review and respond to all comments filed by individuals, elected officials and community groups in the impacted areas. It is paramount that the flawed regulation currently mandating the North Shore Route with zero accountability for aircraft that transition over the North Fork of Long Island, when true all water routes are readily available, must be changed. In our discussion yesterday, you and your team assured me that well before the NSR expires in the summer of 2020, it will not be once again abruptly extended in the manner it was last time. It is imperative that the FAA hold to this commitment. The FAA rulemaking team must promptly provide me, my constituents and other local elected officials in impacted communities with a clear timeline and transparent process regarding the future of the NSR well ahead of the 2020 deadline, most importantly before the start of the next high season in 2019. The most important requirement of the new law is that the FAA initiate a review of the flawed regulations that are perpetuating the aircraft noise crisis in my district and in communities throughout Long Island unlucky enough to be along the path of the NSR. The final and most important goal throughout this process must be a shift to true all water routes including along the Atlantic Ocean for aircraft bound for Long Island’s east end. In the interim, much stricter enforcement of altitude requirements and much more thorough follow-up on noise complaints along the NSR must be your agency’s priority. For your review, Section 182 of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (Public Law No: 115-254) is outlined below. It is imperative that your office comply fully with these requirements and do so promptly. By law, these public hearings should have been held by now. Thank you for your attention to this important issue that continues to impact the quality of life of my constituents. Sincerely, Lee Zeldin Member of Congress SEC. 182. MANDATORY USE OF THE NEW YORK NORTH SHORE HELICOPTER ROUTE. (a) PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD.— (1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall provide notice of, and an opportunity for, at least 60 days of public comment with respect to the regulations in subpart H of part 93 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations. (2) TIMING.—The public comment period required under paragraph (1) shall begin not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act. (b) PUBLIC HEARING.—Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall hold a public hearing in the communities impacted by the regulations described in subsection (a)(1) to solicit feedback with respect to the regulations. (c) REVIEW.—Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall initiate a review of the regulations described in subsection (a)(1) that assesses the— (1) noise impacts of the regulations for communities, including communities in locations where aircraft are transitioning to or from a destination or point of landing; (2) enforcement of applicable flight standards, including requirements for helicopters operating on the relevant route to remain at or above 2,500 feet mean sea level; and (3) availability of alternative or supplemental routes to reduce the noise impacts of the regulations, including the institution of an all water route over the Atlantic Ocean.
11.09.2018	PATCHOGUE, N.Y. - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY- 1) just announced that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers awarded the contract today to carry out the dredge of the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway to H&L Contracting of Bayshore, New York. “This is continued great news for our coastal economy, commercial and recreational fishermen, boaters and all whose livelihoods rely on the vitality of our communities’ waterways,” said Congressman Lee Zeldin. “Coming on the heels of an emergency dredge of the Moriches Inlet, this dredge of the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway will continue to revitalize and support the surrounding maritime industry and the tourism it attracts. In a district nearly completely surrounded by water, I will continue to work with the Army Corps of Engineers to maintain and strengthen our maritime infrastructure.” Earlier this year, Congressman Zeldin called for the dredging of Moriches Inlet and the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway after a series of winter storms. In April, Rep. Zeldin worked with Colonel Thomas Asbery of the Army Corps to receive the needed Emergency Declaration from the Army Corps of Engineers North Atlantic Division Brigadier General William Graham, granting Rep. Zeldin’s request to perform emergency dredging of the Moriches Inlet. This emergency declaration began the process of coordinating funding and permits so dredging vessels could begin work, which also included placement of the sand at Smith Point County Park at Rep. Zeldin’s request. In June, Rep. Zeldin secured $12.25 million in federal funding to complete the emergency dredge of Moriches Inlet. In July, the contract was awarded by the Army Corps of Engineers to Weeks Marine to complete the emergency dredge. In August, Congressman Zeldin secured $3 million to dredge 2.7 miles of the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway. Last month, Rep. Zeldin announced the official start of the Moriches Inlet Emergency dredge.
11.05.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY- Following the United States’ reimposition of sanctions that were lifted as part of the Iran Nuclear Deal on Iran’s energy, ship building, shipping and banking sectors, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement: “The Iran Nuclear Deal was fatally flawed for what was in it and fatally flawed for what was not in it. Since the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) was entered into, Iranian aggression in the Middle East, including Iraq, Syria, and elsewhere, has only increased, and their illegal, nefarious, terrorist activities have only gotten worse, since all of the leverage that brought the Iranians to the table was negotiated away under the JCPOA. I applaud the administration's decision to reimpose the sanctions lifted under this ill-advised deal in an effort to curb Iran's malign interests in the region and ensure that Iran is no longer rewarded for its bad behavior. Iran must stop their nefarious activities and these sanctions against Iran are another great step in the right direction. The onus is on Iran to change its behavior. Additionally, Iran should meet the United States’ most reasonable demands to lift the sunset provisions of the Iran Nuclear Deal and strengthen the verification regime as well.”
11.02.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement regarding today’s Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) notification of the North Shore Helicopter Route public meetings: "My North Shore Helicopter Route legislation is the law of the land, and the FAA must abide by that. As the details of the FAA's public comment process come together, I will continue to hold their feet to the fire to ensure that every last voice is heard. The law requires a public hearing and public comment session. A workshop idea can very well compliment a public hearing, but there's no way it can or will be in lieu of a public hearing to receive oral testimony. That's not an option by law, by me, and for many others. The best path forward is an all water route over the Atlantic Ocean and it will be most important for impacted residents to submit oral and/or written testimony throughout this upcoming public comment period to ensure that this North Shore Helicopter Route is reassessed and a better bath forward is pursued." The FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (H.R. 302), which included Rep. Zeldin’s legislative proposal to require the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to reassess the North Shore Route (NSR) to address the noise impact on affected communities, improve altitude enforcement, and consider alternative routes, including an all water route over the Atlantic Ocean requires the FAA hold a public comment period and public hearing in the community for residents to voice their concerns. The FAA announced today that public meetings will be held at the following sites: November 13, 2018, 7-9 p.m. Cradle of Aviation Museum, Charles Lindbergh Blvd., Garden City, NY 11530 November 14, 2018, 7-9 p.m. Riverhead Middle School, 600 Harrison Avenue, Riverhead, NY 11901 November 15, 2018, 7-9 p.m. Vaughn College, 8601 23rd Ave, Flushing, NY 11369 Residents can submit their comments as part of the mandated public comment period, which ends on January 2, 2019, here.
10.27.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus and one of only two Jewish Republicans in Congress, issued the following statement following the tragedy in Pittsburgh this morning at the Tree of Life Synagogue, which has reportedly left at least 8 individuals dead: “Americans stand in solidarity, deeply saddened by this morning’s shooting at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh. We are all very grateful for the heroism of our law enforcement who selflessly risked their own lives to stop this evil shooter. The rising tide of anti-Semitism all around the world in recent years must be identified more widely and confronted with total focus and determination. We must respect and protect religious freedom, which is a bedrock principle and fundamental right within our great nation.” Congressman Zeldin also posted his statement on Twitter here and here.
10.26.2018	Photo on left courtesy of the U.S. Department of Energy. BROOKHAVEN, NY - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) and Secretary of Energy Rick Perry spent the day visiting Brookhaven National Laboratory (BNL), a cutting edge research institution funded largely by the Department of Energy Office of Science. During the tour, Rep. Zeldin and Secretary Perry visited the National Synchrotron Light Source II (NSLS II), Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider (RHIC) and Center for Functional Nanomaterials. “I thank Secretary Perry and his entire team for traveling to the First Congressional District of New York to tour Brookhaven National Laboratory and see firsthand all of the amazing work they are doing there. I would also like to thank BNL Director Doon Gibbs and his team for their exceptional work today and everyday. For decades, Brookhaven National Lab has pioneered the future of clean and green energy, medical and cancer research, astrophysics and encouraged and cultivated the minds of future generations of scientists,” said Congressman Zeldin. “Supporting their important research is of the utmost importance for not only our area’s economy and the future of scientific research on Long Island, but for the scientific advancement of our entire nation and world.” Since coming to Congress, Rep. Zeldin has been a stalwart advocate for BNL. This year, Rep. Zeldin secured key victories and vital funding for BNL with House passage of the Conference Report to Accompany the Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act (H.R. 5895), which: Directed the Office of Nuclear Physics (NP) ($684 M in FY18; $690 in FY19) to support optimal operations for the lab’s Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider (RHIC), and provides $5.7 M for the sPHENIX MIE; Within Basic Energy Sciences (BES) ($2.090 B in FY18; $2.166 B in FY19), provided not less than $505 M for operation of the 5 x-ray light sources, including $118.2 M for the National Synchrotron Light Source II (NSLS II) operations and directs BES to submit a plan for the buildout of additional beamlines as part of its FY20 budget request; Provided $135 M in BES for operation and recapitalization of the 5 nanoscience centers, including the Center for Functional Nanomaterials at BNL; Within Science Laboratories Infrastructure (SLI) ($232 M in FY19), provided $42.2 M in SLI to complete construction of the Core Facility Revitalization project a full two years ahead of schedule; Provided $7 M in SLI to initiate preliminary engineering and design work, develop cost and schedule baselines, and begin site prep for the Science and User Support Center (SUSC), the laboratory’s gateway project; and Provided $20.456 M in Non-Defense EM ($298.4 M in FY18; $310 M in FY19) for demolition and removal of the HFBR stack to meet community commitments and legal obligations.
10.26.2018	RIVERHEAD, NY - On Thursday, October 25, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined members of the leadership team at Tanger Outlets in Riverhead, to discuss present and future operations for the outlet center and how Congress can assist. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with General Manager of Tanger Outlets in Riverhead Lesley Anthony and Assistant General Manager of Tanger Outlets in Riverhead Mary Lou Ambrose.
10.24.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement on the suspicious packages and acts of terrorism targeting President Obama, President Clinton and former-Secretary of State Clinton, CNN and others: “These cowardly acts are unacceptable and have no place in our nation. I am grateful for the swift action of the U.S. Secret Service, NYPD and bravery of law enforcement agents across our nation. Those responsible and anyone who seeks to spread terror and sow fear amongst the American people must be found and brought to justice.”
10.22.2018	Op-ed by Congressman Lee Zeldin It is always an honor to join Long Islanders from all across our great district to hear directly from them regarding issues they’re concerned about and how we can make Long Island an even better place to live. Just this month, I’ve had some incredible opportunities to join Long Islanders to witness our accomplishments come to fruition. After working with the Army Corps of Engineers, local fishermen, boaters and small business owners in the Moriches area to secure approval and funding for an emergency dredge of Moriches Inlet, I had the opportunity to go behind the scenes on the CR McCaskill, which is the dredge currently completing the mission. I observed operations and thanked the crew for their hard work. This is great news for our coastal economy, commercial and recreational fishermen and all whose livelihoods rely on the vitality of our communities’ waterways. Additionally, I joined first responders at the Long Island Fire District Legislative Breakfast to thank them for their selfless service to our communities and discuss how we can better assist their life-saving services. From Smithtown to Montauk, I’ve helped secure important federal funding that upgrades equipment and bolsters fire safety in our communities. After helping to permanently reauthorize the Zadroga Act to ensure that 9/11 first responders receive the care they have earned and need for years to come, our next mission is to secure a long term extension of the Victims Compensation Fund. It was a privilege to join local veterans and veteran families for the unveiling of the Women Serve Memorial in Calverton National Cemetery. This memorial is dedicated to past, present, and future servicewomen as a reminder of the great sacrifice these incredible women have made and continue to make to keep our exceptional nation safe and secure every day. This year, my legislation to aid severely disabled veterans who need extra assistance in their everyday lives became law. This law expands access to Adult Day Health Care, helping ensure disabled veterans receive the best and most efficient outpatient services, and it was great to hear on-the-ground from local veterans the impact this initiative has had on their fellow vets and how we can continue to do more for our nation’s heroes. I joined the New York Cancer Specialists for the groundbreaking ceremony of their new state-of-the art cancer treatment facility in Port Jefferson Station. This building is the first of its kind on Long Island, and will help save a countless amount of lives on Long Island. I helped usher into law the 21st Century Cures Act that will add $4.8 billion in new funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and recently supported an additional $2 billion in NIH funding. This will be used to conduct research and development in facilities within the First Congressional District of New York, such as Brookhaven National Laboratory and Stony Brook University Hospital, as well as other research laboratories on Long Island and across the nation searching for treatments and cures to devastating diseases both well known and rare. Just this past week, I had the opportunity to tour Brendan House in Riverhead, a New Beginnings Community Center aimed at facilitating rehabilitation services for Long Islanders with cognitive and physical disabilities. This past June, after I continuously called on the Department of Health and Human Services to act, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) issued a new policy for complex rehabilitative power wheelchairs and related accessories. This policy change helps ensure that disabled individuals have access to quality and affordable medical devices which they rely upon for day to day living. With enactment of the new CMS rule, individuals who utilize power wheelchairs and related accessories will now be guaranteed fixed prices for the equipment they rely upon. These are just a few of the great activities and victories I have been privileged to be part of as your Congressman. There is still much more work to be done on Long Island and in Washington which is why I will never stop fighting for my constituents in Congress. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York in Congress where he services on both the House Financial Services and Foreign Affairs Committees.
10.17.2018	RIVERHEAD, NY - On Wednesday, October 17, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) toured Brendan House in Riverhead, a New Beginnings Community Center, aimed at facilitating rehabilitation services for Long Islanders with cognitive and physical disabilities. Congressman Zeldin met with the President of New Beginnings Allyson Scerri, Vice President of New Beginnings Kate DeMeglio and Erin Hickey, a Brendan House resident who recently lost both of her legs to a traumatic injury. During his visit, Congressman Zeldin had the opportunity to discuss the incredible advances that engineers have made with prosthetics and other key issues.
10.17.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), co-chair of the bipartisan Long Island Sound Caucus and member of the Congressional Shellfish Caucus, announced today that New York State Sea Grant has been awarded $182,000 in federal funding by the NOAA National Sea Grant Program. This funding will be used to support the seafood and aquaculture industry, as well as to foster relationships between the industry and next generation of fishermen and other seafood professionals. New York Sea Grant (NYSG) is headquartered at SUNY Stony Brook in New York’s First Congressional District. Congressman Zeldin said, “New York Sea Grant is a critical program that provides resources to our local anglers and businesses, and this federal funding will help them carry out this important mission. Their vital work helps preserve and support our local fishing industry. With 90% of consumed American seafood imported, we must ensure Long Island fishermen and shellfish farmers have access to the resources they need to sustain and grow their businesses.” Interim Director of the New York Sea Grant Program Katherine Bunting-Howarth JD PhD said, “NYSG is pleased to partner on a project that promotes sustainable and healthy seafood—seafood that is produced in a manner that protects the environment, invigorates the economy and provides a vital source of protein for our diets.” National Sea Grant and this $182,000 grant was funded through $72.5 million in federal funding, which Congressman Zeldin helped secure by leading a bipartisan effort of 95 Members of Congress. This March, Congressman Zeldin received the National Sea Grant Award for his support of the National Sea Grant program and our environment. Founded in 1966, Sea Grant works with local shellfish farmers, fishermen, watermen, and other businesses in the coastal economy to grow and sustain their business models, connecting them to local resources to share best practices, and helping them navigate a complex patchwork of state and federal coastal zone management regulations through technical assistance.
10.17.2018	ST. JAMES, NY - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with the Knox School Head of School, Kristen Tillona-Baker, to learn more about their unique educational environment and discuss ways Congress can assist.
10.16.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) presented 96-year-old World War II Veteran Sergeant James Rizzo with a tribute the Congressman entered into the Congressional Record to honor his service and sacrifice. The ceremony took place at Arbor Assisted Living in Islandia where Sergeant Rizzo currently resides. Rep. Zeldin is pictured above with Sergeant Rizzo and his loved ones. The text of the Congressional Record is as follows: “Mr. Speaker, today I rise to honor the service and sacrifice of James (Jimmy) Rizzo. Growing up in Brooklyn, New York, in the shadow of the Brooklyn Navy Yard, his draft notice arrived in 1942. Mr. Rizzo was sent to Camp Crowder in Neosho, Missouri for basic training, and upon completion of his training, he was assigned to the 96th Battalion and transferred to Louisiana. In 1943, he arrived in the Burmese theater, where he would be stationed to serve. Mr. Rizzo was constantly on the move in Burma. His duty was retrieving supplies and packages by airdrop from dangerous jungles and terrains, ensuring these supplies arrived at their military and medical destinations on time and intact. The job was a dangerous one, and during his time in Burma he faced two near-death situations. Having been promoted from Private to Corporal and then to Sergeant, he was awarded the African and Burma Stars. For his service and sacrifice, our nation will always be indebted to Sergeant Rizzo, and his bravery and selflessness then and now continues to inspire us all.”
10.16.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement announcing a $174,500 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Brownfields Assessment and Cleanup Cooperative Agreement grant for the Town of Southampton to aid in the assessment and cleanup of local Brownfield sites. This grant will allow the Town to identify petroleum and hazardous substance contamination issues at an estimated nine sites, evaluate remediation strategies, and ultimately return these distressed, abandoned or environmentally stigmatized sites back to viable and sustainable use. “This grant is great news for the Riverside community and its continued revitalization,” said Congressman Zeldin. “Aiding local communities in safely cleaning up vacant and abandoned properties, these Brownfields assessment grants will assist Riverside in its continued mission to transform previously abandoned and unusable properties into sustainable, viable and vibrant spaces in our community.” Southampton Town Supervisor Jay Schneiderman said, “The recent announcement that the Town of Southampton has been awarded $174,500 from the Federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Brownfields Petroleum Assessment and Cleanup Program will allow the Town initially to assist owners of targeted properties in the preparation of updated Phase I Environmental Assessments related to potential contaminants and pollutants. Guided by these Assessments the grant will further provide for the evaluation of strategies for individual site remediation and cleanup so that these often distressed, abandoned, or environmentally stigmatized properties can become viable and sustainable development that enhances the community. This grant will also support public outreach measures to inform the community about completed assessments and their findings, proposed work activities and site cleanups.” Last year, Rep. Zeldin voted for full funding of the EPA’s Brownfields Program at $90 million. Earlier this year, the Town of Southampton received $265,000 in federal funding through the same grant program. The Brownfields Program targets communities that are economically disadvantaged and provides funding and assistance to transform blighted sites into assets that can generate jobs and spur economic growth. A study analyzing 48 Brownfields sites found that an estimated $29 million to $97 million in additional tax revenue was generated for local governments in a single year after cleanup. This is two to seven times more than the $12.4 million EPA contributed to the cleanup of these Brownfields sites. Furthermore, another study found that property values of homes located near Brownfields sites that are cleaned up increased between 5 and 15 percent after cleanup.
10.16.2018	SMITHTOWN, N.Y.- On Monday, October 15, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted Mobile Office Hours at the Smithtown Fire Department. During Mobile Office Hours, Rep. Zeldin met one-on-one and in small group meetings with constituents to discuss the issues most important to them, including MS-13, supporting our local first responders, healthcare and many other topics of interest. Constituents interested in participating in a future meeting can contact Congressman Zeldin’s office at (631) 289-1097.
10.13.2018	CALVERTON, NY - On Saturday, October 13, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was a guest speaker (above right) at the unveiling of the new Women Serve Memorial in Calverton National Cemetery, which is dedicated to past, present and future servicewomen. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above left with (from left to right) Riverhead Councilwoman Catherine Kent and Riverhead Town Supervisor Laura Jens-Smith.
10.12.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement on the Navy’s polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) water testing near the Naval Weapons Industrial Reserve Plant in Calverton: “When it comes to our communities’ drinking water there is no room for error. Residents deserve to know what’s in their drinking water as a result of decades-old activities on the nearby Naval Weapons Industrial Reserve Plant in Calverton. Therefore, all potentially contaminated drinking supplies must be tested and the remediation, including bottled water and access to safe water sources, be undertaken at the expense of the responsible party.” The use of industrial strength firefighting foam during past training exercises, such as those undertaken at the Naval Weapons Industrial Reserve Plant, have been known to introduce chemicals such as PFAS into the surrounding ground water. In July, Congressman Zeldin secured House passage of $60 million for environmental remediation and PFAS cleanup as a part of the Make America Secure Appropriations Act.
10.10.2018	PORT JEFFERSON STATION, NY - On Wednesday, October 10, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin joined the New York Cancer and Blood Specialists (NYCBS) and Dr. Jeff Vacirca for the Port Jefferson Station groundbreaking ceremony of its new state-of-the art cancer treatment facility. Expected to open in May 2019, this building has been fully designed with the patient experience in mind to treat the whole patient, not just cancer.
10.10.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) Co-Chair of the Bipartisan Long Island Sound Caucus announced the Senate passed the 5-year reauthorization of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Long Island Sound Program, which Rep. Zeldin secured at $65 million per year, will now head to the President’s desk to become law following Senate passage of House Amendment to S. 3021 - America's Water Infrastructure Act of 2018, which included the Long Island Sound Restoration and Stewardship Act (H.R. 1674). “The Long Island Sound is a critical part of our way of life, culture and economy, supporting tens of billions of dollars in economic value per year. The health and vitality of the Sound help so many hardworking Long Islanders put food on the table and provide a better future for their families. Protecting and restoring this important waterway, which has suffered from pollution and overdevelopment for too many years goes hand in hand with improving our area’s water quality, restoring our natural habitats and improving local residents’ quality of life. Finally, working across the aisle and across the Sound, instead of facing the threat of being gutted year after year, this program and those who rely on it have the long-term certainty they need to carry out their important work. I look forward to the President signing this long-overdue, long-term reauthorization into law.” Prior to this legislation, the EPA’s Long Island Sound Program was last reauthorized for five years in 2006 at $25 million per year.
10.10.2018	CENTEREACH, NY - On Tuesday, September 9, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin joined Long Island American Bikers for Awareness Training and Education (ABATE) for their Veterans Appreciation Dinner, during which over $140,000 was awarded to local veterans groups. Over the last four years, Long Island ABATE has raised over $400,000 for Long Island Veterans.
10.05.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was joined by the Army Corps New York District Commander Colonel Thomas Asbery, Brookhaven Supervisor Ed Romaine, State Senator Ken LaValle, State Assemblyman Fred Thiele, Suffolk County Legislator Rudy Sunderman, Brookhaven Councilman Dan Panico, Westhampton Beach Mayor Maria Moore, Westhampton Beach Trustees Brian Tymann and Ralph Urban, fishermen, boaters and maritime business owners at the United States Coast Guard Station in East Moriches to announce the official start of the Moriches Inlet Emergency Dredge. Following the announcement, Rep. Zeldin, Colonel Asbery, and Garrett Armwood representing U.S. Senator Charles Schumer, boarded the CR McCaskill, the dredging vessel currently situated in the Moriches Inlet to complete the dredging work. The work involves dredging and removal of an estimated 158,000 cubic yards of sand, which is being beneficially reused 5 miles west of Moriches Inlet to provide additional coastal storm risk reduction measures for Smith Point County Park. Work is currently underway and scheduled for completion by November 1st, 2018.The emergency dredging is being done to restore Moriches Inlet to its federally authorized depth of 10 feet deep and 200 feet wide. The project uses a Cutter Suction Dredge and 30,000 linear feet of submerged pipeline that will transfer up to 12,000 cubic yards of sand a day, 5 miles to Smith Point County Park where bulldozers will appropriately shape the sand to provide additional coastal storm risk reduction measures. In March, Rep. Zeldin was joined by local elected officials, small businesses, boaters and fishermen in calling for an emergency dredge of Moriches Inlet during which Congressman Zeldin joined local fishermen to survey the inlet’s dangerous navigational conditions first-hand. In April, Rep. Zeldin worked with Colonel Asbery to receive the needed Emergency Declaration from the Army Corps of Engineers North Atlantic Division Brigadier General William Graham, granting Rep. Zeldin’s request to perform emergency dredging of the Moriches Inlet. This emergency declaration began the process of coordinating funding and permits so dredging vessels can begin work. In June, Rep. Zeldin secured $12.25 million in federal funding to complete the emergency dredge of Moriches Inlet. In July, the contract was awarded by the Army Corps of Engineers to Weeks Marine to complete the emergency dredge. In August, Rep. Zeldin secured an additional $3 million to also dredge the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway. “The official start of the Moriches Inlet Emergency Dredge is great news for our coastal economy, commercial and recreational fishermen and all whose livelihoods rely on the vitality of our communities’ waterways, said Congressman Zeldin. “Thank you to Colonel Asbery and his amazing team for their hard work and cooperation along the way. It was a great, added highlight to be able to board the CR McCaskill to see the operation first-hand and thank the crew for their hard work delivering for our local community.” "The Corps of Engineers is extremely excited to perform the emergency dredging of Moriches Inlet to restore safe navigation,” said New York District Commander Col. Thomas D. Asbery. “Safety continues to be one of the Corps’ top priorities and we are beneficially reusing this sand to supplement coastal storm risk reduction measures at Smith Point County Park, and provide additional benefits for the area. I’d like to thank members of congress, the U.S. Coast Guard, New York State DEC, members of the Department of Interior's US Fish & Wildlife Service and the National Park Service as well as our higher headquarters for their support in helping the New York District expedite this important issue.” “I just want to thank Congressman Zeldin for his efforts in coordinating the emergency dredging project in Moriches Inlet, and Bay,” said Joe Tangel, Owner of KING COD Fishing in Center Moriches. “It is a great relief for boaters and fishermen in the area to know that something will finally be done to ensure our safety and economic viability.”
10.05.2018	PATCHOGUE, N.Y. - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (H.R. 302), which included his legislative proposal to require the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to reassess the North Shore Route (NSR) to address the noise impact on affected communities, improve altitude enforcement, and consider alternative routes, including an all water route over the Atlantic Ocean, was signed into law by President Trump: “It is great news for NY-1 residents that President Donald Trump just signed into law my proposal that requires the FAA to reassess the North Shore Route and pursue an all water route over the Atlantic Ocean,” said Congressman Zeldin. “No longer can the FAA ignore the concerns of residents as they have from the North Shore Route’s planning to its continued use, while day to day quality of life has suffered due to the persistent issue of helicopter noise on the East End. Finally, the FAA is forced to listen. I thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for supporting this legislation and the President for signing this important proposal into law.” With the enactment of this legislation: A public hearing must take place no later than 30 days from today. A public comment period must begin no later than 30 days from today and last for at least 60 days. The FAA must commence a formal review of the NSR no later than 30 days from today, including the potential creation of an all water Atlantic Ocean Route. The five east end Town Supervisors previously stated upon Congressional passage: Southold Supervisor Scott Russell said, “The ever increasing number of helicopters over Southold has devastated the quality of life for our residents. Southold has become a doormat to the helicopter operators as they head to and from the Hamptons. Rep. Zeldin's amendment is a common sense approach that will provide immediate relief to our community. I urge the FAA to follow the Congressman's lead and help him restore the quality of life of the people of Southold.” Southampton Supervisor Jay Schneiderman said, “Congratulations to Congressman Zeldin for getting this much needed legislation through the House. Anything that will provide relief from helicopter noise will be welcome news for residents of the region.” Riverhead Supervisor Laura Jens-Smith said, “Helicopter noise during the busy summer months has exponentially increased over Riverhead in the past several years. These helicopters tend to fly the same routes when navigating overland resulting in helicopters passing overhead every 5 to 10 minutes. The noise created is so loud and disturbing that it can drown out your TV, or even shake pictures off your wall if you are inside. And outside is even worse, requiring you to stop your conversations until after the helicopters have passed. The intended routes for these flights is to avoid the land, and head out over the water to reach their destinations. In practice this is not what happens. I applaud this bipartisan effort to finally bring relief to Riverhead residents.” Shelter Island Supervisor Gary Gerth said, “This is one of the most important issues for the residents of Shelter Island, who have been adversely impacted by persistent helicopter noise. This common sense legislation is great news for Shelter Island and our entire region and will have such a positive impact on Long Islanders day-to-day quality of life.” East Hampton Town Supervisor Peter Van Scoyoc said, “Congressional attention to the problem of aircraft noise over the East End is certainly appreciated, and warranted. We look forward to continued discussions and meaningful improvement.” ###
10.03.2018	Watch Rep. Zeldin’s remarks on the House Floor ahead of last week’s vote in the House here. WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after Senate passage of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (H.R. 302), which included his legislative proposal that passed the House of Representatives last week to require the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to reassess the North Shore Route (NSR) to address the noise impact on affected communities, improve altitude enforcement, and consider alternative routes, including an all water route over the Atlantic Ocean. With enactment of this legislation, which is headed to the President’s desk to be signed into law, the FAA will be required to hold a public hearing on the NSR in impacted communities and open a public comment period, both of which the FAA has refused to do in recent years as the NSR has been renewed by the FAA under emergency authority without consulting the public or local lawmakers. “I applaud my Senate colleagues for passing my proposal that requires the FAA to reassess the North Shore Route and pursue an all water route over the Atlantic Ocean,” said Congressman Zeldin. “For years, the FAA has ignored the concerns of residents, from the North Shore Route’s planning to its continued use, while day to day quality of life has suffered due to the persistent issue of helicopter noise on the East End. Finally, the FAA is forced to listen. I urge the President to sign this important proposal into law.” Southold Supervisor Scott Russell said, “The ever increasing number of helicopters over Southold has devastated the quality of life for our residents. Southold has become a doormat to the helicopter operators as they head to and from the Hamptons. Rep. Zeldin's amendment is a common sense approach that will provide immediate relief to our community. I urge the FAA to follow the Congressman's lead and help him restore the quality of life of the people of Southold.” Southampton Supervisor Jay Schneiderman said, “Congratulations to Congressman Zeldin for getting this much needed legislation through the House. Anything that will provide relief from helicopter noise will be welcome news for residents of the region.” Riverhead Supervisor Laura Jens-Smith said, “Helicopter noise during the busy summer months has exponentially increased over Riverhead in the past several years. These helicopters tend to fly the same routes when navigating overland resulting in helicopters passing overhead every 5 to 10 minutes. The noise created is so loud and disturbing that it can drown out your TV, or even shake pictures off your wall if you are inside. And outside is even worse, requiring you to stop your conversations until after the helicopters have passed. The intended routes for these flights is to avoid the land, and head out over the water to reach their destinations. In practice this is not what happens. I applaud this bipartisan effort to finally bring relief to Riverhead residents.” Shelter Island Supervisor Gary Gerth said, “This is one of the most important issues for the residents of Shelter Island, who have been adversely impacted by persistent helicopter noise. This common sense legislation is great news for Shelter Island and our entire region and will have such a positive impact on Long Islanders day-to-day quality of life.” East Hampton Town Supervisor Peter Van Scoyoc said, “Congressional attention to the problem of aircraft noise over the East End is certainly appreciated, and warranted. We look forward to continued discussions and meaningful improvement.”
10.01.2018	ROCKY POINT, NY – On Monday, October 1, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Brookhaven Town Highway Superintendent Daniel P. Losquadro and Brookhaven Councilwoman Jane Bonner announced the completion of a nearly $1-million stormwater treatment and shoreline protection project at the terminus of Hallock Landing Road in Rocky Point. During Superstorm Sandy in October 2012, the Hallock Landing Road outfall sustained extensive damage, including substantial sand, beach grass and vegetation erosion, as well as the destruction of the gabion-basket wall system, concrete ramp, outfall pipes, parking lot, and chain link fence. While Superstorm Sandy’s immense tidal surges were responsible for most of the damage, this shoreline stabilization project completed by the Brookhaven Highway Department repaired years of damage from multiple Nor’Easters, as well as Hurricane Irene. This large-scale project involved the installation of a stormwater treatment unit to filter sediment and other contaminants before the stormwater reached the outfall pipe and Long Island Sound; full replacement of all drainage structures and pipes including the 36” and 48” dual outfalls; construction of a stone revetment wall with 2,150 tons of 3-4 ton-sized boulders to fortify the road ending and protect the drainage infrastructure; construction of a new, environmentally-sensitive, heavy-duty concrete block ramp for emergency vehicle access; and a new walkway and stairs to provide public beach access. A new guiderail, signage, and gate were also installed once the area was completely resurfaced. This work was approved by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Hazard Mitigation Program for 90% reimbursement of the total project cost of $996,829. “Working closely with leadership at Brookhaven Town, Highway Superintendent Losquardo and Councilwoman Bonner, we were able to secure the funding needed to complete this vital project - 90% of the nearly $1 million needed came from federal FEMA funds and 10% state funds,” said Congressman Zeldin. “Thanks to the hard work of Superintendent Losquardo, Councilwoman Bonner and all those working together at every level of government, this project has been completed and came in under budget, bolstering our area's storm resiliency and preventing future water damage while saving taxpayers hard earned money.” “Congressman Zeldin was incredibly helpful in securing the funding for this project, so we were able to utilize our local funding to its fullest extent for our ongoing road and drainage work,” said Superintendent Losquadro. “This was one of a dozen surface water quality protection projects the Highway Department has completed since I took office in March of 2015. The completion of this project—under budget—will ensure that we are less vulnerable to damage from future storms.” “Although Super Storm Sandy occurred nearly six years ago, we are still dealing with the damage left in its wake,” Councilwoman Bonner said. “This is a great example of how we can get important projects completed by working with different levels of government. I thank Congressman Zeldin for his strong commitment to the Town of Brookhaven and Superintendent Losquadro for all he does to improve our infrastructure and protect the environment.”
10.01.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement following the passing of a local boy scout who was hit by an alleged drunk driver in Manorville on Sunday, September 30, 2018: “My deepest condolences are with the family and friends of the young scout who passed away this morning, and my prayers are with his fellow scouts still recovering from this horrific tragedy. It should not take the loss of one of our community’s young leaders to spur action – we must ensure better safety for those who live alongside and drive on our local roads, and those who enjoy our communities’ trails. These young leaders were living their lives to most positively impact their community and nation and it is inexcusable that another person's most foolish personal decisions would have led to this saddening loss of life.”
09.30.2018	MIDDLE ISLAND, NY - On Sunday, September 30, 2018, National Gold Star Mother’s and Family’s Day, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined Gold Star families and local elected officials and residents at Bartlett Pond Park for the Middle Island Gold Star Families Day, hosted by the Middle Island Civic Association to honor the sacrifice of our nation’s Gold Star families. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with Middle Island Civic Association President Gail Lynch-Bailey.
09.29.2018	SHOREHAM, NY - On Saturday, September 29, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined local residents and the boys and girls Shoreham Wading River High School Varsity soccer teams as they played against Garden City and Cold Spring Harbor in honor of the four 106th Rescue Wing airmen fallen in the line of duty earlier this year - Captain Andreas O'Keeffe, Captain Christopher Zanetis, Master Sergeant Christopher Raguso, Tech Sergeant Dashan Briggs.
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after House passage of H.R. 6846, which included his legislative proposal to create a new, unique zip code for the hamlets of Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton, in the Town of Southampton. “While the delay of deliveries caused by sharing a zip code is a nuisance and heavily impacts residents’ quality of life, above all else, it is a safety hazard,” said Congressman Zeldin. “These packages can hold important goods like medications, which are critical for a person's health and well-being. They can also cause major problems for police, first responders, and other emergency personnel, who may arrive at the wrong address due to these shared street names with the same zip code in the Town of Riverhead. These kinds of mistakes can be avoided, and these problems can be alleviated by assigning a new and unique zip code to Flanders, Riverside and Northampton.” Vince Taldone, Flanders, Riverside and Northampton Community Association Economic Development Chairman said, “Receiving calls from lost guests or delivery men are an inconvenience experienced by many residents of the area, but having life saving medicine delivered to the right address in the wrong town is a far more serious matter. I am grateful that Congressman Zeldin has recognized the danger to community members that this long unresolved zip code matter causes. Community members have been fighting for years to get this issue resolved and I am grateful that Congressman Zeldin has taken up the battle on our behalf.”
09.26.2018	Watch Rep. Zeldin’s remarks on the House Floor ahead of the vote here. WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was joined by Representatives Claudia Tenney (R, NY-22), David Scott (D, GA-13) and Kyrsten Sinema (D, AZ-9) in securing unanimous bipartisan House passage of the Protecting Affordable Mortgages for Veterans Act (H.R. 6737). Due to ambiguous language previously enacted into law, roughly 2,500 Veterans Affairs (VA) loans, worth $500 million, taken out in May and June of this year, are not eligible to be pooled through the Government National Mortgage Association (Ginnie Mae), which could significantly raise closing costs and rates for qualified veteran borrowers. The ability to pool these mortgages, which are comparatively low risk and boast a very low default or delinquency rate, maintains important liquidity in the VA home loan market while helping to lower rates and increase cost savings for veteran borrowers. Furthermore, the inability to pool VA loans could cut off liquidity to the VA home loan market and stifle future refinancing opportunities. The Protecting Affordable Mortgages for Veterans Act (H.R. 6737) clarifies this ambiguous language and restores lenders’ ability to pool VA home loans, increases market liquidity, preserves future refinancing opportunities, provides lower rates and most importantly passes along cost savings to our nation’s veterans and their families. “Our nation’s service members, veterans and their families have made a tremendous sacrifice in service to our great nation and the freedoms and liberties that make this country the greatest in the world. They have earned nothing less than our unwavering support when transitioning back into civilian life, and such a critical part of living out the American dream they fought so hard to protect is the dream of homeownership. Ensuring certainty in the market and access to affordable mortgages for our nation’s veterans is the least we can do as they transition into civilian life,” said Rep. Zeldin. “The VA home loan program allows veterans and service members the opportunity to become homeowners, and it has proven to be a great success. The Protect Affordable Mortgages for Veterans Act of 2018 will protect our veterans, ensuring they receive certainty in the marketplace. This bill is a simple fix, and I look forward to continuing to work in a bipartisan manner with my colleagues to ensure our veterans get the help they deserve,” said Rep. Claudia Tenney. “2,500 veterans had their VA home loans placed in limbo because of a simple drafting error. I’m proud to join Mr. Zeldin in his hard work to spotlight this issue, and come up with a simple fix so that Ginnie Mae can securitize these loans. Veterans always need to be put first— and this bill is a small but important effort to show that Congress is keeping faith with our commitment to them,” said Rep. David Scott.
09.26.2018	Watch Rep. Zeldin’s remarks on the House Floor ahead of the vote here. WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after House passage this evening of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (H.R. 302), which included his legislative proposal that previously passed the House of Representatives to require the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to reassess the North Shore Route (NSR) to address the noise impact on affected communities, improve altitude enforcement, and consider alternative routes, including an all water route over the Atlantic Ocean. With enactment of this legislation, which is currently expected to pass the Senate before September 30th in accordance with a previously reached agreement, the FAA will be required to hold a public hearing on the NSR in impacted communities and open a public comment period, both of which the FAA has refused to do in recent years as the NSR has been renewed by the FAA under emergency authority without consulting the public or local lawmakers. “Summer after summer, North Fork residents’ quality of life has suffered due to the persistent issue of helicopter noise on the East End,” said Congressman Zeldin. “The FAA and Department of Transportation have sole jurisdiction over the aircraft routes that have impacted these communities, but from the route’s planning to its continued use, they have continued to flat out ignore the residents directly affected. Congress must hold their feet to the fire and finally pass this legislation that requires the FAA to assess an all water route and alternatives to mitigate the impact on residents. I implore my colleagues in the Senate to keep their promise and pass my proposal to ensure that those who call the North Fork home are finally being heard.” Southold Supervisor Scott Russell said, “The ever increasing number of helicopters over Southold has devastated the quality of life for our residents. Southold has become a doormat to the helicopter operators as they head to and from the Hamptons. Rep. Zeldin's amendment is a common sense approach that will provide immediate relief to our community. I urge the FAA to follow the Congressman's lead and help him restore the quality of life of the people of Southold.” Southampton Supervisor Jay Schneiderman said, “Congratulations to Congressman Zeldin for getting this much needed legislation through the House. Anything that will provide relief from helicopter noise will be welcome news for residents of the region. I urge the Senate to approve this legislation.” Riverhead Supervisor Laura Jens-Smith said, “Helicopter noise during the busy summer months has exponentially increased over Riverhead in the past several years. These helicopters tend to fly the same routes when navigating overland resulting in helicopters passing overhead every 5 to 10 minutes. The noise created is so loud and disturbing that it can drown out your TV, or even shake pictures off your wall if you are inside. And outside is even worse, requiring you to stop your conversations until after the helicopters have passed. The intended routes for these flights is to avoid the land, and head out over the water to reach their destinations. In practice this is not what happens. I applaud this bipartisan effort to finally bring relief to Riverhead residents.” In April, the House passed Congressman Zeldin’s bipartisan legislation to require the FAA to reassess the deeply flawed North Shore Route, but the Senate has yet to act. The House and Senate have now reached a bipartisan agreement to pass H.R. 302, the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018, this week before FAA funding expires on September 30th.
09.25.2018	WASHINGTON - On Tuesday, September, 25 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with Long Island members of the American Cancer Society, including Christina Rizzi (center right) of Setauket, in his Washington, D.C. office. During the meeting, they discussed ways in which Congress can help those fighting cancer through research and patient support.
09.25.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced today that the Senate and House have come to an agreement for consideration of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (H.R. 302), which will now include Congressman Zeldin’s legislative proposal that previously passed the House of Representatives to require the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to reassess the North Shore Route (NSR) to address the noise impact on affected communities, improve altitude enforcement, and consider alternative routes, including an all water route over the Atlantic Ocean. With passage of this legislation, which is currently expected to pass the House and Senate before September 30th, the FAA will be required to hold a public hearing on the NSR in impacted communities and open a public comment period, both of which the FAA has refused to do in recent years as the NSR has been renewed by the FAA under emergency authority without consulting the public or local lawmakers. “Summer after summer, North Fork residents’ quality of life has suffered due to the persistent issue of helicopter noise on the East End,” said Congressman Zeldin. “The FAA and Department of Transportation have sole jurisdiction over the aircraft routes that have impacted these communities, but from the route’s planning to its continued use, they have continued to flat out ignore the residents directly affected. Congress must hold their feet to the fire and finally pass this legislation that requires the FAA to assess an all water route and alternatives to mitigate the impact on residents. I implore my colleagues to pass my proposal and ensure that those who call the North Fork home are finally being heard.” In April, the House passed Congressman Zeldin’s bipartisan legislation to require the FAA to reassess the deeply flawed North Shore Route, but the Senate has yet to act. The House and Senate have now reached a bipartisan agreement to pass H.R. 302, the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018, this week before FAA funding expires on September 30th.
09.25.2018	MEDFORD, N.Y.- On Monday evening, September 24, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted Mobile Office Hours at the Medford Fire Department. During Mobile Office Hours, Rep. Zeldin met one-on-one and in small group meetings with constituents to discuss the issues most important to them, including the heroin and opioid abuse epidemic and many other topics of interest. Constituents interested in participating in a future meeting can contact Congressman Zeldin’s office at (631) 289-1097.
09.24.2018	RIVERHEAD, NY - On Sunday, September 23, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) and his family joined the family and friends of TSgt. Dashan Briggs for the 1st Annual TSgt Dashan Briggs Family Fun Day in Riverhead, a celebration of the life and legacy of TSgt Briggs of the 106th Rescue Wing who fell in the line of duty earlier this year. On the left, Congressman Zeldin is pictured with his wife Diana, as well as the grandfather, widow and son of TSgt Briggs.
09.23.2018	YAPHANK, NY - On Sunday, September 23, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Sheriff’s Annual Open House and Family Day, which featured K-9 Demonstrations, Jail Tours, Law Enforcement Presentations, Troop Carrier Rides, Marine Patrol Unit Displays, Sheriff’s Emergency Response Team Demos, Vehicle Displays, and Child ID and Senior Medical ID Cards, at the Suffolk County Correctional Facility in Yaphank.
09.23.2018	HOLTSVILLE, NY - On Sunday, September 23, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined the congregation of the Long Island Baptist Church in Holtsville to celebrate their 30th anniversary and was a guest speaker during their service. Rep. Zeldin pictured above with Pastor John Graf, his wife, Liz Graf, and daughter, Ashley Graf.
09.22.2018	RONKONKOMA, NY - On Saturday, September 22, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) and his family welcomed home approximately 50 local World War II, Korean and Vietnam War veterans at MacArthur Airport who were returning back to Long Island from Washington, D.C. after participating in an Honor Flight, which brings local veterans and their families to our nation’s capital to visit the monuments dedicated to their service to our country.
09.22.2018	STONY BROOK, NY - On Saturday, September 22, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined students, faculty and local residents at Stony Brook University’s CommUniversity Day which showcases the different facets of the Stony Brook Campus through hands-on, interactive activities, such as a tour of their Mobile Dental Clinic.
09.21.2018	ROCKY POINT, N.Y.- On Thursday, September 20, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted Lunch With Lee at VFW Post 6249 in Rocky Point. During the event, Rep. Zeldin answered questions from constituents and took part in a substantive discussion regarding a variety of issues affecting our country and New York’s First Congressional District. Constituents wishing to participate in a future meeting can contact Congressman Zeldin’s office at (631) 289-1097.
09.21.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was joined by Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R, FL-27) and 54 other Members of Congress in sending the following letter to President Trump urging the Department of State to fully recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel for purposes of registration of birth, certification of nationality and issuance of passports for U.S. citizens born in the city of Jerusalem. “Jerusalem is the capital of the Jewish State of Israel, and recognizing it as such is critical to protecting Israel’s sovereignty and security and strengthening the bond between our two nations,” said Congressman Zeldin. “The U.S. has no greater ally and strategic partner than Israel, and as Israel’s unquestionable capital, it is absolutely imperative that the U.S. recognize Jerusalem as such in everything we do. Following its decision to finally recognize Israel as its capital, I urge the administration and the State Department to follow through, reflecting this fact on all of the documents it issues.” A signed PDF of the letter is available here. Full text of the letter is as follows: The Honorable Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President, Over the past year, your administration has strengthened the bond between the United States and Israel in unprecedented ways. From the historic move of the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem to signing the Taylor Force Act into law, withdrawing from the flawed Iran Nuclear Deal, and defending Israel in the international community, we are thankful for your administration’s continuous commitment to protecting Israel’s sovereignty and security. We write today requesting your urgent attention to another important matter regarding the United States recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. Despite the progress in moving the embassy, the State Department has not yet fully implemented the administration’s policy of recognizing Jerusalem as Israel’s capital for purposes of registration of birth, certification of nationality, or issuance of a passport of a United States citizen born in the city of Jerusalem. Passports of Americans born abroad ordinarily record the country of birth. The State Department’s Foreign Affairs Manual states, “the place of birth for persons born before May 14, 1948, in locations outside Jerusalem’s municipal limits at that time, that are now inside Jerusalem’s declared municipal limits, is listed as PALESTINE or the name of the location as it was known prior to expansion of Jerusalem’s municipal limits at any time following May 14, 1948.” The place of birth for persons born in Jerusalem is recorded as “Jerusalem” (with no reference to a country) instead of “Jerusalem, Israel”. In 2002, Congress passed the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 (5 U.S.C. 8411), which included Section 214 (d) to direct the Secretary of State, upon request, to list the birthplace of a U.S. citizen born in Jerusalem as “Israel” on an individual’s passport. However, past administrations have declined to follow this policy citing final status issues on specific boundaries of Israeli sovereignty in Jerusalem, and the resolution of contested borders. Then, in 2015, the Supreme Court issued a decision on Zivotofsky vs. Kerry, which determined that the Constitution gives the President exclusive authority to recognize foreign sovereigns over Congress’ authority to regulate passports. Notably, the Court also determined that “the statement required by Section 214(d) would not itself constitute a formal act of recognition.” Therefore, the State Department could institute a policy to allow Americans born in Jerusalem to list “Israel” without taking an official position on boundaries or contested borders. The State Department correspondingly permits Americans born in Taiwan to list “Taiwan” on official passport documents, despite the United States’ “One China policy.” In May 2017, over 50 Members of Congress signed a detailed letter to former Secretary of State Rex Tillerson urging the State Department to issue a new policy that reflects the will of Congress in support of the birthplace designation. The State Department should faithfully implement the administration’s policy, by recognizing all areas within the current municipal boundaries of Jerusalem as “Jerusalem, Israel”, supporting Jerusalem as the Capital of Israel both de jure and de facto. Thank you for your time and consideration. We look forward to working with you on this matter.
09.18.2018	CALVERTON, N.Y.- Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) toured Riverhead Building Supply in Calverton to discuss ways in which Congress can continue supporting Long Island’s businesses and construction industry. Riverhead Building Supply, which is celebrating 70 years of business, provides a range of lumber and building products with 14 locations throughout Long Island and New England.
09.18.2018	FARMINGVILLE, N.Y. - On Tuesday, September 18, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined the U.S. Postal Service and local first responders for the dedication ceremony of the Honoring First Responders Stamp. The stamp portrays three first responders as they race into action. First is a firefighter carrying an axe, second is an Emergency Medical Service (EMS) worker with an emergency bag, and third is a law-enforcement officer shining a flashlight. The dark background and signs of smoke around the figures suggest the wide range of situations that demand the immediate attention of a first responder. “Our nation’s first responders put their lives on the line each and every day to protect ours, and they have earned nothing less than our utmost gratitude,” said Congressman Zeldin after the dedication ceremony. “It is so important that in everything we do we honor these brave men and women for their service to our communities and nation. Now as we mail letters and cards to our family, friends and loved ones, we will always be reminded that their safety and security is thanks to our local first responders.” The stamp is issued as seen below:
09.17.2018	RIVERHEAD, NY - On Monday, September 17, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was joined by House Committee on Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte (VA-6) and local, state and federal law enforcement officials, as well as the immigrant parents of Justin Llivicura who was murdered by MS-13, for a roundtable discussion on efforts to combat MS-13 and other gang violence, drug trafficking, sex trafficking, and human trafficking. Congressman Zeldin also invited the Long Island Farm Bureau to attend to discuss reforms necessary to our nation’s guest worker program. The full opening remarks of Congressman Zeldin can be viewed below as prepared for delivery. Chairman of the House Committee on Judiciary Bob Goodlatte said, “The problem we have with gangs and drugs is probably the most significant challenge law enforcement has and, perhaps with the opioid crisis today, the most significant danger to our citizens. According to federal authorities, these gangs have advanced beyond their traditional role as local retail drug distributors and become more organized, adaptable, deliberate and influential in large scale drug trafficking. Gangs like MS-13 have gained greater control over drug distribution outside urban centers in suburban and rural areas.” Suffolk County Chief of Detectives Gerard Gigante said, “Since 2016, the department’s multifaceted approach has resulted in approximately 400 arrests of MS-13 gang members. We have estimated that 600 MS-13 gang members and associates live in the county at this time and have been active over the last several years. MS-13 sustains themselves by constantly recruiting new members, particularly minors. MS-13 members recruit children in communities in Suffolk County through the UAC [Unaccompanied Alien Children] program. While the vast majority of these children live law-abiding lives, many of them are vulnerable to gang recruitment - they’re young, alone and adjusting to a new country, culture, language and seeking a sense of belonging. The current vetting and screening system of sponsors is in dire need of improvement. It is vital that the federal government place UACs in our communities after proper screening of sponsors, followed by measures ensuring proper guardian compliance; oversight is critical.” Homeland Security Investigations Special Agent Angel Melendez said, “This year, in 2018, we’ve been able to arrest 20 human traffickers and more importantly rescue approximately 48 victims, victims of these transnational criminal organizations. The most recent one was last month when we were able to rescue a 15-year-old girl who was being trafficked by MS-13 here in Suffolk County. She was raped multiple times and was being held captive and exploited sexually. Working with our office in Virginia we were able to locate the victim and rescue her.” The mother of 16-year-old Justin Llivicura who was murdered by MS-13 said through a translator, “Thank you for the cooperation of all of the authorities. I thank you all. I came to this country at 19 years old. I made my family here. My son was a humble boy and he never had a problem with anyone, and it hurts me a lot to have lost my son and thank you very much for remembering the name of my son.” Robert Carpenter of the Long Island Farm Bureau said, “The most important part of any farm operation is a steady, reliable workforce. Farmers can’t feed our nation by themselves. It takes many hands and many hours of work. A reliable and steady workforce requires many different aspects since operations are unique and growing practices vary and are not easily replicated farm to farm. It has been my experience that the farmer workers on our farms are good, honest people who care about the farm and work hard. They want to provide for their families just like anyone else. In some instances, since their families are many miles away, workers want to be able to come here, do a good job and work hard and return home to see their loved ones in the off season. Many other industries and businesses throughout the United States, the restaurant and hospitality industry, construction, the small businesses on Main Street that need a good workforce rely on immigrants and the good people that come here. We ask for your help in crafting laws that provide farmers and businesses with a steady reliable workforce, not a program that’s based on government agency viewpoint, but a program that will truly help our farmers and businesses, one that will be adoptable to the needs of our different commodities without putting the additional burden on our operations with more regulation, time and effort or stipulations that could hurt business profitability. Let us remember that small businesses are the backbone of America.” Congressman Zeldin’s full opening remarks as prepared for delivery: “Thank you all for being here this morning, especially House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte of Virginia. “I would like to thank Suffolk Community College for hosting, as well as Police Commissioner Geraldine Hart, HSI Special Agent Angel Melendez, Michael Lewis from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Long Island Farm Bureau, and all other attendees for your work in our community. “We are also joined this morning by the parents of Justin Llivicura, whose son was murdered by MS-13. “The Judiciary Committee, which Chairman Goodlatte is in charge of, has jurisdiction and oversight over our nation’s judicial system. “I asked Chairman Goodlatte to travel to Long Island for the purpose of hearing from our local law enforcement on their exceptional efforts to keep our communities safe, as well as help identify policy solutions to give our law enforcement additional tools and resources. “The experts gathered around this table this morning have been leading the effort locally with a model to emulate nationally to defeat MS-13 and stop drug trafficking, human trafficking and sex trafficking. “Additionally, after several meetings through the years with the Long Island Farm Bureau and other employers relying on a well functioning and more efficient guest worker program in our country, and due to Chairman Goodlatte’s efforts to improve this program, I also asked the Long Island Farm Bureau to attend and present this morning. The Farm Bureau has been an outspoken and well respected champion on behalf of business owners and their workforce here on the east end. “Our law enforcement community has made tremendous progress targeting MS-13 networks with hundreds of arrests. “Law enforcement is targeting individuals not in our country legally who have been deported and have returned, who have been involved in human trafficking, sex trafficking, drug trafficking and other serious criminal offenses. “In Operation Cross Check, ICE made arrests of 13 individuals on Long Island, all who were previously removed from the country and returned illegally. “Last month, District Attorney Sini launched a major gang initiative to focus exclusively on investigating and prosecuting crimes committed by gang members. “Here, in Suffolk County, this mission is all the more personal. “In 2017, four young lives were sadly and brutally cut short by MS-13, one of whom was Justin Llivicura of East Patchogue, whose parents are here today. “In January, Suffolk and Nassau County police officials visited El Salvador to gain more insight into the inner workings of MS-13. The Department of Homeland Security funded this effort. One of the major findings was the way gang leaders coordinate drug sales and activity. Over the summer, the Suffolk County Police Department announced its first human trafficking investigation unit working closely with victims to target high-level traffickers and prostitution ringleaders. “Since the pilot unit began in March, police have arrested 19 people on 47 counts of trafficking-related offenses, and indicted nine additional traffickers. “In April, Congress passed and the President signed into law the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act of 2017 (H.R. 1865) to fight the online sex trafficking industry. This bill has already been effective in shutting down dozens of trafficking marketplaces. The House passed the Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act to remove alien gang members before they murder innocent Americans. “I introduced H.R. 5065, the Protecting Our Communities from Gang Violence Act to remove citizenship for any naturalized citizen tied to a criminal gang and who commits a gang related activity. “Last year, Suffolk County received $500k from the DOJ through the Project Safe Neighborhoods (PSN) initiative to reduce gun and gang-related violence in high crime areas. This grant supports enforcement strategies targeting individuals responsible for a disproportionate amount of violent crime as identified through evidence-based research and analysis, and expands community outreach programs for at-risk youth. “This administration has taken a hard stance against gang activity, with the President coming to Long Island twice to address these issues and meeting with victim families. It is imperative that we come together as one community in rejection of this violence which has claimed too many innocent lives. “Every nation's backbone is it's rule of law. “I support legal immigration. I oppose illegal immigration. “If you want to come to America and pursue the American dream, follow the rules. If you commit a crime and are deported, don't come back. “Some people want to shield removable criminal aliens who face deportation at the expense of the safety and security of Long Islanders. “We must support our law enforcement. “I want to briefly mention what I am hearing on Unaccompanied Alien Children (UACs). The influx of UACs has provided fertile recruiting opportunities for brutal transnational gangs like MS-13. “A June 2017 review of UACs in the Office of Refugee Resettlement found that 39 of 138 UACs (28%) were involved with gangs. “Earlier this year, Operation Matador led to the arrest of 177 MS-13 members— 99 of those MS-13 gang members had entered the country as a UAC (that’s more than 36%). “The surge of UACs has resulted in an increase of MS-13 gang presence in American schools. We must also address a legal path for local businesses to employ temporary workers in order to maintain a reliable workforce. “The current temporary worker program, with great uncertainty, imposes excessive costs on farmers, requiring employers to reapply annually — an expensive and time-consuming process. Chairman Goodlatte has been at the forefront of pursuing policy solutions to move forward on this issue smarter and more effectively than ever before. “Chairman Goodlatte put forward a strong solution in the Ag and Legal Workforce Act, which we hope to see pass before January. “Thank you all for joining this roundtable and I look forward to hearing from you.”
09.17.2018	SACHEM, N.Y. - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was joined at Seneca Middle School in the Sachem School District, by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R, VA-6) to celebrate Constitution Day, the day in which the United States Constitution was signed.
09.17.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - On Saturday, September 15, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined Project 9 Line for their Vetstock Music Festival in Patchogue to honor our nation’s veterans and raise awareness for the important work Project 9 Line does for our veterans, aiding in a smooth transition back into civilian life.
09.17.2018	SMITHTOWN, NY - On Saturday, September 15, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined the Feal Good Foundation, 9/11 first responders, victims’ families, elected officials and other community residents at 9/11 Responders Remembered Memorial Park in Nesconset to recognize the 17th Anniversary of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack and all who were lost that day and since due to 9/11 related health care illnesses. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, from left to right, with Smithtown Town Clerk Vinny Puleo, Smithtown Supervisor Ed Wehrheim and Smithtown Councilwoman Lisa Inzerillo.
09.17.2018	Op-ed by Congressman Lee Zeldin In a district almost completely surrounded by water, we have a unique responsibility to safeguard our local waterways. For all who have lived on Long Island for an extended period of time, we understand that our island's waterways are an integral part of our history, culture and entire way of life. The Long Island Sound alone supports tens of billions of dollars in economic value per year, which helps so many hardworking Long Islanders put food on the table and provide a better future for their families. For the safety and prosperity of all who rely on our waterways, it is essential to secure, undertake and complete maritime projects that restore, maintain and protect Long Island’s coastline and waters. This winter, our region was pummeled by a series of unprecedented storms that undermined the integrity of our maritime infrastructure, threatening our communities’ fishing and boating industries and negatively impacting the so many businesses that support them. The severity of the situation was most prevalent at Moriches Inlet, which was no longer safe to pass through because of the severe shoaling created by the winter storms, which pushed sand into the inlet, creating extremely shallow and dangerous waters. During one of my telephone town halls, which I hold while in Washington, D.C. voting, I spoke to a local fisherman, Captain Joe Tangel of Moriches, a year-round fisherman and charter boat captain who supports a family of four transiting Moriches Inlet close to 200 times a year. Having fished out of Moriches for over 20 years, he said Moriches Inlet was in the worst shape he had ever seen, a state that would no longer allow him and the so many others who rely on the inlet to support their families. I went out to the inlet to see these dangerous conditions firsthand, and was joined by fishermen, business owners and other stakeholders in calling for an emergency dredge. Working with the Army Corps of Engineers and those at every level of government, I secured the approval and $12 million in federal funding needed to undertake this emergency dredge, and, with the necessary pipes being laid and vessels arriving, it is underway right now. The dredged sand will be placed at Smith Point County Park where it will be used to widen the beach, strengthen the dunes, support the boardwalk and defend the beach against future storms. Working with Commander of the New York District of the Army Corps of Engineers Colonel Thomas Asbery and his incredible team, in addition to moving the Fire Island to Montauk Point (FIMP) plan closer to implementation as well as other important east end projects, I also secured $3 million and a dredge of the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway. This dredge will restore the proper 6-foot depth to the waterway and maintain safe navigational conditions for boaters along the South Shore by removing over 57,000 cubic yards of sand from over 2.7 miles. These unprecedented winter storms left so many waterways in dangerous navigational conditions, including Wickham Creek on the North Fork. Dredging of Wickham Creek is prohibited between January 1st and September 31st, but with the summer approaching the condition of Wickham Creek was a safety hazard to recreational and commercial boaters alike. I secured an extension of the dredging period to restore safe navigational conditions for local residents right in time for summer. On the East End, as the largest fishing port in New York State, Montauk is key to the seafood and tourism industries of our region. The vessels that drive this industry are sheltered in the safety of Lake Montauk. However, their safety and the docks utilized inside the harbor depend on regular upkeep and dredging, and in June I was proud to secure $1.9 million to undertake this important dredging project. I also recently secured $480,000 in federal funding for the Cedar Beach Creek Habitat Restoration Demonstration Project, which restores local essential ecosystem functions in the degraded marsh system. Since 1930, significant marsh loss and degradation from erosion and past filling activities have occurred. Completion of this project will greatly enhance the 65-acre marsh and beach complex at Cedar Beach Creek. The project will restore and create 19.5 acres of salt marsh and marsh islands through the beneficial use of clean dredged material, create new oyster reefs, create 1.7 acres of new seagrass meadow, improve 3 acres of new open water habitat through increased and improved flushing and revitalize the entire 65 acre marsh, beach, and open water mosaic. This project will establish and enhance three critical marine habitats in the Peconic Estuary which is an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) designated Estuary of National Significance. The hundreds of miles of coastline that comprise our shores have been forever ingrained in the culture and livelihoods of Long Islanders. For generations, Long Island’s economy has been driven by our surrounding waterways, culture and heritage molded by our communities’ bustling tourism, boating, fishing and maritime industries. It is our responsibility to preserve this way of life for the so many Long Islanders who rely on our local maritime industries, ensuring our local waterways are clean, healthy, and safe to navigate; a critical component of continuing these unique traditions. Congressman Lee Zeldin serves as Co-Chair of the bipartisan Long Island Sound Caucus and member of the bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus.
09.14.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after securing key victories and vital funding for Brookhaven National Laboratory with House passage of the Conference Report to Accompany the Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act (H.R. 5895): “For decades, Brookhaven National Lab has pioneered the future of clean and green energy, medical and cancer research, astrophysics and encouraged and cultivated the minds of future generations of scientists,” said Congressman Zeldin. “Supporting their important research is of the utmost importance for not only our area’s economy and the future of scientific research on Long Island, but for the scientific advancement of our entire nation. This vital funding will make it possible for Brookhaven National Lab to complete the construction of their Core Facility Revitalization project two years ahead of schedule, and aids in the operation of 5 X-Ray light sources and the BNL Center for Functional Nanomaterials.” Director of Brookhaven National Laboratory Doon Gibbs said, “We appreciate the continuing support of the New York delegation for the U.S. Department of Energy’s Office of Science and Brookhaven Lab. This bill provides crucial funding for the operation of our leading-edge scientific facilities and for our major research efforts, from advancing fundamental science to developing next-generation batteries, life-saving medical isotopes, and technologies that protect our nation.” The Conference Report to Accompany the Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act (H.R. 5895) includes: Directs the Office of Nuclear Physics (NP) ($684 M in FY18; $690 in FY19) to support optimal operations for the lab’s Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider (RHIC), and provides $5.7 M for the sPHENIX MIE; Within Basic Energy Sciences (BES) ($2.090 B in FY18; $2.166 B in FY19), provides not less than $505 M for operation of the 5 x-ray light sources, including $118.2 M for the National Synchrotron Light Source II (NSLS II) operations and directs BES to submit a plan for the buildout of additional beamlines as part of its FY20 budget request; Provides $135 M in BES for operation and recapitalization of the 5 nanoscience centers, including the Center for Functional Nanomaterials at BNL. Within Science Laboratories Infrastructure (SLI) ($232 M in FY19), provides $42.2 M in SLI to complete construction of the Core Facility Revitalization project a full two years ahead of schedule; Provides $7 M in SLI to initiate preliminary engineering and design work, develop cost and schedule baselines, and begin site prep for the Science and User Support Center (SUSC), the laboratory’s gateway project; and Provides $20.456 M in Non-Defense EM ($298.4 M in FY18; $310 M in FY19) for demolition and removal of the HFBR stack to meet community commitments and legal obligations.
09.14.2018	WASHINGTON - Yesterday, Representative Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was joined by Reps. Claudia Tenney (R, NY-22), Kyrsten Sinema (D, AZ-9) and David Scott (D, GA-13) in securing unanimous bipartisan passage of the Protecting Affordable Mortgages for Veterans Act (H.R. 6737) in the House Committee on Financial Services. Due to ambiguous language previously enacted into law, roughly 2,500 Veterans Affairs (VA) loans, worth $500 million, taken out in May and June of this year are not eligible to be pooled through the Government National Mortgage Association (Ginnie Mae), which could significantly raise closing costs and rates for qualified veteran borrowers. The ability to pool these mortgages, which are comparatively low risk and boast a very low default or delinquency rate, maintains important liquidity in the VA home loan market while helping to lower rates and increase cost savings for veteran borrowers. Furthermore, the inability to pool VA loans could cut off liquidity to the VA home loan market and stifle future refinancing opportunities. The Protecting Affordable Mortgages for Veterans Act (H.R. 6737) clarifies this ambiguous language and restores lenders’ ability to pool VA home loans, increases market liquidity, preserves future refinancing opportunities, provides lower rates and most importantly passes along cost savings to our nation’s veterans and their families. “Our nation’s service members, veterans and their families have made a tremendous sacrifice in service to our great nation and the freedoms and liberties that make this country the greatest in the world. They have earned nothing less than our unwavering support when transitioning back into civilian life, and such a critical part of living out the American dream they fought so hard to protect is the dream of homeownership. Ensuring certainty in the market and access to affordable mortgages for our nation’s veterans is the least we can do as they transition into civilian life,” said Rep. Zeldin. “The VA home loan program allows veterans and service members the opportunity to become homeowners, and it has proven to be a great success. The Protect Affordable Mortgages for Veterans Act of 2018 will protect our veterans, ensuring they receive certainty in the marketplace. This bill is a simple fix, and I look forward to continuing to work in a bipartisan manner with my colleague’s to ensure our veterans get the help they deserve,” said Rep. Claudia Tenney. “2,500 veterans had their VA home loans placed in limbo because of a simple drafting error. I’m proud to join Mr. Zeldin in his hard work to spotlight this issue, and come up with a simple fix so that Ginnie Mae can securitize these loans. Veterans always need to be put first— and this bill is a small but important effort to show that Congress is keeping faith with our commitment to them,” said Rep. David Scott.
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Representatives Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Rosa DeLauro (D, CT-3) and Tom Suozzi (D, NY-3), co-chairs of the bipartisan Long Island Sound Caucus, secured a 5-year reauthorization of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Long Island Sound Program funded at $65 million per year with House passage of House Amendment to S. 3021 - America's Water Infrastructure Act of 2018, which included the Long Island Sound Restoration and Stewardship Act (H.R. 1674). This legislation now heads back to the U.S. Senate for consideration. Rep. Zeldin said, “The Long Island Sound is a critical part of our way of life, culture and economy, supporting tens of billion of dollars in economic value per year. The health and vitality of the Sound help so many hardworking Long Islanders put food on the table and provide a better future for their families. Protecting and restoring this important waterway, which has suffered from pollution and overdevelopment for too many years goes hand in hand with improving our area’s water quality, restoring our natural habitats and improving local residents’ quality of life. Finally, working across the aisle and across the Sound, instead of facing the threat of being gutted year after year, this program and those who rely on it have the long-term certainty they need to carry out their important work. I urge my Senate colleagues to take up and pass this critical legislation as soon as possible.” Rep. DeLauro said, “The passage of this bill helps ensure the Long Island Sound will remain a valuable resource for generations to come. By prioritizing the long-term health of one of our greatest natural treasures, this legislation protects our environment and serves communities throughout the region. In addition to that important stewardship, it contains critical investments for our regional economy, as the Long Island Sound contributes tens of billions of dollars to the regional economy through commercial and recreational fishing, ecotourism, and other water dependent businesses. This is a win for the people of Connecticut and New York, and I am proud that we were able to get this done by working across the aisle on their behalf.” Rep. Suozzi said, “This is a great victory for the Long Island Sound - our national park. I’ve spent my entire life in, on and around the sound, and witnessed firsthand its transformation and revitalization. From my days as Mayor of Glen Cove and Nassau County Executive, to my first term in Congress, I’ve championed efforts and policies to clean up the Sound. We have made tremendous progress over the past 20 years, but must continue to build on today’s momentum. I will continue to fight for funding and policies that will help preserve the gains we’ve made and make further strides so generations to come can enjoy the natural splendor of the Sound.”
09.12.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement announcing a $1,349,533 grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF) to State University of New York (SUNY) at Stony Brook to research models to advance underrepresented minority STEM faculty at predominantly undergraduate institutions: “An education firmly rooted in the sciences has become essential in a 21st century economy, and providing Long Island students the opportunity to pursue the paths which lead to high paying jobs in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) fields begins with supporting students of all backgrounds to pursue STEM research and teaching careers. This grant will provide our students with mentoring, professional development training, and the teaching pedagogy skills necessary to succeed in academic faculty positions. Stony Brook University has earned a world renowned reputation for technological advancement and innovation and I look forward to the success of this collaborative research.” Stony Brook University Principal Investigator Dave Ferguson said, "The aim of the project is to build a comprehensive national model for preparing underrepresented minority doctoral students for faculty positions in predominantly undergraduate institutions. The applied research component of the project will offer insights into the mechanisms for preparing and supporting students for early faculty success in their STEM research and teaching." Created by the U.S. Congress in 1950, the National Science Foundation (NSF) is an agency which promotes the progress of science, advances national health, prosperity, and welfare, and works to secure our national defense. This Congress, Rep. Zeldin voted in favor of the Consolidated Appropriations Act (H.R. 244), which the President signed into law, providing $7.5 billion for the National Science Foundation (NSF) and $5.3 billion for the DOE Office of Science.
09.12.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and Co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, issued the following statement following National Security Advisor John Bolton’s announcement that the Trump Administration will close the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) office in Washington, D.C. and that sanctions will be imposed against International Criminal Court (ICC) judges and prosecutors should it move ahead with an investigation against the United States and Israel: “The U.S. has no greater ally and strategic partner than Israel, and it is critical that we support a direct and robust peace process that brings lasting peace between Israel and the Palestinians. However, the PLO has only set back this critical peace process with their unwillingness to engage in any part of it, going so far as to oppose plans that haven’t even yet been drafted. Instead, the PLO has continued to force a wedge between negotiators, now advocating for an International Criminal Court investigation into the United States, Israel and its allies. Any attempt by the ICC, a pro-Palestinian organization, to intimidate the United States or Israel will not be tolerated, and I applaud the Administration for taking a strong stance; threatening the full force of U.S. sanctions.”
09.11.2018	ROCKY POINT, N.Y. - On Tuesday, September 11, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke at Rocky Point Fire Department’s 9/11 Anniversary Ceremony honoring the lives of the innocent American lives lost on that day, the sacrifices of our first responders and all those who have put their lives on the line since in the fight against terror.
09.08.2018	HAMPTON BAYS, NY - On Saturday, September 8, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) and his family joined the Southampton Animal Shelter at the Boardy Barn in Hampton Bays for their annual event to raise awareness and support of the important work they do for our local animals.
09.08.2018	MONTAUK, NY - On Saturday, September 8, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined local residents for the annual Montauk Seafood Festival, which celebrates our community’s rich seafood heritage, history, and local businesses.
09.07.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) today announced $480,000 in federal funding for the Cedar Beach Creek Habitat Restoration Demonstration Project, working with the Army Corps of Engineers, which will restore local essential ecosystem functions in the degraded marsh system. Since 1930, significant marsh loss and degradation from erosion and past filling activities has occurred. Completion of this project will greatly enhance the 65-acre marsh and beach complex at Cedar Beach Creek. The project will restore and create 19.5 acres of salt marsh and marsh islands through the beneficial use of clean dredged material, create new oyster reefs, create 1.7 acres of new seagrass meadow and improve 3 acres of new open water habitat through increased/improved flushing. The Project grantee, Cornell Cooperative Extension of Suffolk County, will implement this project with New York District of the Army Corps, in coordination with Suffolk County Parks and the Peconic Estuary Program to improve this 65 acre marsh, beach, and open water mosaic. This project will establish and enhance three critical marine habitats in the Peconic Estuary which is an EPA designated Estuary of National Significance. “In a district nearly completely surrounded by water, we have a unique responsibility to safeguard our local environment,” said Rep. Zeldin. “An important component of our community’s ecosystem is our area’s wetlands and salt marshes which protect our shores from erosion, reduce the impact of flooding, absorb pollutants and protect water quality. The diverse wildlife and vegetation is a critical part of Long Island’s ecological health.” In July of this year, Congressman Zeldin secured $27 million in funding for the National Estuary Program, which funds this Federal Estuary Restoration Program, with passage of the Interior, Environment, Financial Services, and General Government Appropriations Act of FY 2019 (H.R. 6147).
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was joined by Representatives Mark Meadows (NC-11), Jim Jordan (OH-4), Matt Gaetz (FL-1), Andy Biggs (AZ-5), Keith Rothfus (PA-12), Jody Hice (GA-10), Louie Gohmert (TX-1), Brian Babin (TX-36), Claudia Tenney (NY-22), Scott DesJarlais (TN-4), and Scott Perry (PA-4) in calling on President Donald Trump to declassify and release the Carter Page FISA applications (including specifically pages 10-12 and 17-34 and relevant footnotes), all of the Bruce Ohr 302s and other relevant documents, including exculpatory evidence regarding Carter Page and others, that were presented to the Gang of Eight, but not presented to the FISA Court. The video from today’s press conference can be viewed here. In May 2018, Reps. Zeldin, Meadows, Jordan, Desantis, Gaetz and other Members of Congress announced the introduction of a 12-page House Resolution detailing misconduct at the highest levels of the Department of Justice (DOJ) and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) with regards to FISA Abuse, how and why the Hillary Clinton email probe ended, and how and why the Donald Trump-Russia probe began. The Resolution, now sponsored by 33 Members of Congress, also calls for the appointment of a second special counsel to investigate the misconduct that took place. Rep. Zeldin’s remarks as prepared for delivery are as follows: “Before I begin, I would like to say this: The ranks of our Justice Department and FBI are filled with amazing, patriotic men and women who passionately love their jobs and our country. They take their oath seriously and perform their jobs exceptionally. They enforce our rule of law and make us proud each and every day in the performance of their duties. It is deeply unfortunate that individuals at the highest levels of these legendary, historic agencies weaponized their powers and acted highly improperly. Their misconduct is a reflection on them, not on everyone else performing their responsibilities to the very best of their abilities and making everyone in our nation so proud of them each and every day. In May of this year, 19 Members of Congress introduced a 12-page House resolution detailing misconduct at the highest levels of the DOJ and FBI with regards to FISA abuse, how and why the Hillary Clinton email probe ended and how and why the Donald Trump-Russia probe began. This resolution also called for the appointment of a Second Special Counsel to investigate this gross misconduct, with the understanding that the Justice Department cannot be expected to investigate itself. 33 Members of the House now sponsor this Resolution calling for the appointment of a Second Special Counsel because we, and our constituents, want transparency and accountability, and yet since the introduction of this resolution, further evidence has come to light of misconduct at the highest levels of the DOJ and FBI. The same principles that motivated us to introduce our resolution then, are driving us with even more determination and resolve today. I am joined here today by several of my colleagues, including Congressmen Meadows, Jordan, Gaetz and others, to call on the President of the United States, Donald Trump, to declassify and release important information for the American public. As I stated in my Tweet yesterday, “powers were abused, the FISA Court was misled, and we have zero tolerance for any of it.” There are three parts to our request: One: We are calling for the declassification and release of the Carter Page FISA Applications. While we are strongly in favor of releasing the entirety of the FISA applications, except for the necessary redaction of any sources and methods that must truly remain classified, we most specifically want to ensure that the President declassifies and releases 20 pages in particular of the last FISA renewal. This includes pages 10 to 12 and 17 to 34, along with the associated footnotes. We are confident that the FISA applications will prove that the highest levels of the DOJ and FBI failed to provide the FISA court with critically important information when they requested a warrant to spy on Carter Page and others. Part Two of our request is that we are calling on the President to declassify and release all 12 of the Bruce Ohr 302s. We are confident that these 302s contain critically important information that should have been provided to the FISA court, but wasn’t. Part Three: We are also calling for the declassification and release of the documents provided to the Gang of 8 that contain exculpatory evidence regarding Carter Page and others. We are confident that these documents also contain critically important information that should have been provided to the FISA court, but wasn’t. We of course understand the importance of redacting information that compromises sources and methods, but that is no excuse to not release the rest of the information solely because it embarrases or exposes people who are responsible for wrongdoing. In October 2016, the FBI and DOJ used politically biased, unverified sources to obtain a warrant from the United States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to surveil a U.S. citizen, Carter Page. The warrant, along with three renewals, also would have enabled investigators to access Page’s communications with other Americans, including other Trump campaign associates. The warrants grant U.S. intelligence and law enforcement agencies sweeping power to collect bulk information and conduct ‘‘about collection’’, which results in surveillance of a broad array of private communications from the past, present, and future, including those of U.S. citizens not specifically targeted in the FISA authorized warrant. To obtain these warrants, FBI and DOJ officials submitted an unverified dossier prepared by Christopher Steele to the FISA Court. The officials failed to disclose that Christopher Steele was hired by the firm Fusion GPS, which was hired by the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton campaign to prepare this dossier and that the source was unreliable and was soon thereafter going to be terminated as a source. The FISA Court was not informed that Christopher Steele was actively opposed to the election of Donald Trump, that he was the unnamed source cited in the media reports that the FBI used to corroborate his dossier, and that Fusion GPS had been hired to perform previous anti-Trump research efforts in 2015. The Woods Procedures, which are the FBI’s mandatory vetting process required for all FISA warrant applications instituted to ensure that all the facts contained in an application are accurate and verified to clearly support probable cause for a warrant, were not followed. Former Director Comey admitted in sworn testimony to the Senate Judiciary Committee on June 8, 2017, that material contained in the Steele dossier was known to be both ‘‘salacious’’ and ‘‘unverified’’. Since FISA warrant applications are rarely turned down, are almost never subject to appeal, and are presented in closed court with no public record where the Government is not challenged by any defense, it is imperative that the Government take extra care to validate the information being utilized to build their case before they take the extraordinary step of waiving rights of a U.S. citizen without his or her knowledge or the opportunity to present a defense. At the FISA Court, the Government has a responsibility not only to provide its best evidence in support of its case, but also to provide the best evidence against its application, and in this case the DOJ failed to do so. There apparently was very important exculpatory evidence that was provided to the Gang of Eight was not even presented to the FISA Court. These deeply flawed and questionable FISA warrant applications utilizing illicit sources and politically biased intelligence were approved by DOJ and FBI officials at the highest levels before being submitted to the FISA Court. It was further hidden from the FISA court that Nellie Ohr, the wife of the fourth-highest ranking DOJ official, Bruce Ohr, worked for Fusion GPS. The Court also wasn’t notified that even after Steele was terminated as a source by the FBI for leaking information to the press, the FBI continued to effectively use him as a source via Steele’s contacts with Bruce Ohr. Despite the troubling fact that he was terminated as a source by the FBI for leaking information to the press and other reasons, the FBI continued to effectively use Steele as a source by maintaining regular contact with Ohr. Christopher Steele directly transmitted the dossier and other information through Bruce Ohr to the FBI, which then submitted allegations from the dossier to the FISA court. The details of the interviews between the FBI and Ohr are laid out in a series of 302s written by the FBI, but the DOJ continues to improperly keep those 302s classified. In February 2018, the President declassified information within a memorandum by the majority of the House Intelligence Committee, which revealed that, “Before and after Steele was terminated as a source, he maintained contact with DOJ via then-Associate Deputy Attorney General Bruce Ohr, a senior DOJ official who worked closely with Deputy Attorneys General Yates and Rosenstein. Shortly after the election, the FBI began interviewing Ohr, documenting his communications with Steele. For example, in September 2016, Steele admitted to Ohr his feeling against then-candidate Trump when Steele said he ‘was desperate that Donald Trump not get elected and was passionate about him not being President.’” Later that month, in response to a request by Senators Grassley and Graham, the DOJ declassified a letter that referred to the Bruce Ohr 302 interview summaries stating that: “Numerous FD-302s demonstrating that DOJ official Bruce Ohr continued to pass along allegations from Mr. Steele to the FBI after the FBI suspended its formal relationship with Mr. Steele for unauthorized contact with the media, and demonstrating that Mr. Ohr otherwise funneled allegations form Fusion GPS and Mr. Steele to the FBI.” In May of 2018, upon request, the DOJ produced 63 pages of unclassified emails and notes documenting Mr. Ohr’s interactions with Mr. Steele on these issues. The 302s contain Mr. Ohr’s recounting of his interactions with Mr. Steele, which are unclassified, the dates of Mr. Ohr’s interviews with the FBI to relay information, which have already been declassified, and Mr. Ohr’s emails and notes documenting their interactions, which are not classified, yet the 302s themselves remain classified. As Senator Grassley has stated, “nothing about these documents ought to be marked classified.” As I stated earlier, we are confident that important information in these 302s that should have been provided to the FISA court, was not actually provided to the judges as it should have been. The same applies to important information contained in the documents provided to the Gang of 8. We believe in equal scales of justice. That no one is above the law. That includes anyone regardless of last name and that even includes people at the highest levels of the DOJ and FBI especially when misconduct is committed in the performance of their duties while trying to take down elected officials and candidates. Powers were abused, the FISA Court was misled, and we have zero tolerance for any of it. As Representatives, it is our Constitutional duty to ensure that our constituents - the American people- know the truth, that they possess the information they have every right to possess and that those officials who abused their powers and misled the FISA court to obtain a warrant to spy on Americans are held accountable. The numerous severe irregularities involved in this investigation—and the very notion of an administration employing our nation’s counter-intelligence capabilities to investigate its political opponents during a political campaign—have deeply shaken Americans’ confidence in the leadership of U.S. intelligence and law enforcement agencies. These agencies exist to protect Americans from foreign threats, not to try to sway the outcome of our elections or to destabilize a duly elected administration. The continued attempts to hide from the public a full accounting of these abuses is intolerable. The American people have a right to know exactly what happened in this investigation so we can implement reforms to ensure that such abuses are never repeated. We will not allow those responsible for these misdeeds to improperly cite national security concerns to keep the truth from coming to light. The only satisfactory outcome now is full transparency for the American people and full accountability for those who maliciously subjected American citizens to surveillance abuses. Mr. President, there are Members of Congress and millions of Americans all across our great nation who are asking you for their sake and for our country’s future for you to declassify and release this important information.”
08.30.2018	SHIRLEY, N.Y. - On Tuesday, August 28, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Shirley Beach renovation ribbon cutting ceremony alongside Brookhaven Town Supervisor Ed Romaine, Councilman Dan Panico, Suffolk County Clerk Judy Pascale and community members. The reopening of Shirley Beach comes after months of renovation and now reopens with several new improvements, including a spray park, refurbished bathrooms and new landscaping. Upgrades were made possible in part by State Senator Tom Croci who secured a $250,000 grant for the renovation.
08.27.2018	CUTCHOGUE, NY - On Saturday, August 24, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin and his wife, Diana, were joined by other local elected officials to attend the Cutchogue Fire Department Annual Chicken Barbecue, the proceeds of which benefit the fire department.
08.25.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Today; Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced that the pipe that will run from the Moriches Inlet dredge site to the Smith Point County Park Beach sand deposit location started arriving this morning on site (Above photo taken today). In March, Rep. Zeldin was joined by local elected officials, small businesses, boaters and fishermen in calling for an emergency dredge of Moriches Inlet during which Congressman Zeldin joined local fishermen to survey the inlet’s dangerous navigational conditions first-hand. In April, Rep. Zeldin worked with the Commander of the U.S. Army Corps New York District, Colonel Thomas Asbery, to receive the needed Emergency Declaration from the Army Corps of Engineers North Atlantic Division Brigadier General William Graham, granting Rep. Zeldin’s request to perform emergency dredging of the Moriches Inlet. This emergency declaration began the process of coordinating funding and permits so dredging vessels can begin work. In June, Rep. Zeldin secured $12.25 million in federal funding to complete the emergency dredge of Moriches Inlet. In July, the contract was awarded by the Army Corps of Engineers to Weeks Marine to complete the emergency dredge. Earlier this month, Rep. Zeldin secured an additional $3 million to also dredge the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway. Last week, a Weeks Marine survey vessel arrived at the site and performed the needed surveying to initiate the emergency dredge of Moriches Inlet.
08.24.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement announcing a $100,000 grant from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) for Atlantic Marine Conservation Society (AMSC) of Hampton Bays, New York, which will aid the organization in their mission to help entangled and stranded whales, dolphins and other marine life and build a strong regional network that responds to and prevents marine mammal entanglements: “On Long Island, our waterways are an integral part of our way of life and, in a district almost completely surrounded by water, we have a unique responsibility to safeguard our local environment, waterways and marine life,” said Congressman Lee Zeldin. “Successfully responding to the strandings of whales, seals, sea turtles and dolphins, the Atlantic Marine Conservation Society has worked hard to respond to distressed marine life, but also collect data and provide insight to ensure the long-term survival of the animals in and near our local waterways.” “In just 19 months of receiving our stranding agreement from National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), we have responded 21 large whales that have washed up on New York shores,” said Atlantic Marine Conservation Society founder and chief scientist Robert A. DiGiovanni, Jr. "As the lead large whale response organization in New York State, NOAA's Prescott Grant will help mortality and entanglement investigations for marine mammals and sea turtles, partner training, and research efforts surrounding these issues. We are so grateful to receive this grant as it furthers our mission of promoting marine conservation through action while raising an awareness for the need of public support, volunteers, members, and donors to carry out this important work. Together, we can learn what’s impacting the marine environment and what we can all do to help save it.” The NOAA John H. Prescott Marine Mammal Rescue Assistance Grant Program is a key source of funding for marine conservation advocates and researchers to aid in the recovery and treatment of stranded marine mammals. This critical program is funded under the NOAA research budget and last year Congressman Zeldin voted to fully fund NOAA research at $3.24 billion for FY 2018 (H.R. 3354). About Atlantic Marine Conservation Society Atlantic Marine Conservation Society’s (AMCS) mission is to promote marine conservation through action. This is accomplished through education, research, and response. AMCS is the lead large whale response organization in New York State. As a non-profit organization, the society conducts research projects within the marine environment, and responds to whales, porpoises, dolphins, and sea turtles in the northeast region, and conducts public and private education programs across Long Island into New York City. Partnering with other organizations within the stranding network, AMCS is supported by the Specially Trained Animal Response Team (START), Pacific Marine Mammal Center (PMMC), and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).
08.23.2018	MT SINAI, N.Y. - On Wednesday, August 22, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) held Mobile Office Hours at Rose Caracappa Senior Center. During Mobile Office Hours, Rep. Zeldin met one-on-one and in small group meetings with constituents to discuss the issues most important to them, including Medicare, SNAP and many other topics of interest. Constituents interested in participating in a future meeting can contact Congressman Zeldin’s office at (631) 289-1097.
08.22.2018	RIDGE, N.Y. – On Tuesday, August 21, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) surprised several NY-1 constituents while delivering Meals on Wheels prepared meals alongside Brookhaven Town Supervisor Ed Romaine, as part of “Undercover Congressman”, during which Rep. Zeldin works local jobs in NY-1. Meals on Wheels is a non-profit organization that delivers nutritious meals to seniors directly to their homes. Pictured above is Supervisor Romaine, Congressman Zeldin and NY-1 constituent Sylvia Klimm.
08.21.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) applauded the White House’s announcement this morning that Nazi war criminal Jakiw Palij, who was residing in Queens, New York, has been deported back to Germany. Jakiw Palij is a convicted war criminal who served as a guard at the Nazi Trawniki camp in Poland. “Having escaped justice and authorities following World War II, by lying about his criminal background, Mr. Palij has been allowed to cower in his Queens home for far too long. Allowing a murderer, who facilitated the deaths of countless innocent people, to live freely, enjoying the liberties that make this country the greatest in the world, is a slap in the face to all the families of those who perished, their memory and the brave American servicemen and women who sacrificed everything for their freedom. I applaud President Trump for finally ridding this war criminal from our nation and returning him to Germany.” Rep. Zeldin has long called for the deportation of Jakiw Palij, including in a August 2017 letter to then-Secretary of State Rex Tillerson.
08.20.2018	Our economy is strong and growing stronger with an economic environment spurring considerable job growth and desperately needed opportunities for American workers. Just since the recent publication of the first part of this two-part op-ed, we have had even more great economic news. With a 4.1% GDP growth rate for Q2 announced, we have the fastest growing economy now in 4 years. One of the ways to ensure the hardworking men and women of Long Island feel the positive economic impact is to encourage businesses to grow local and stay local. There are important opportunities for all levels of government to assist. A new restaurant owner will be responsible for property taxes to the local school district, zoning applications to the town, and health department approval from the county, while paying income taxes to the state and federal government. This is just a sampling of how overhead impacts the ability and decision making to open and grow a business. When it comes to our economy, Long Island has much to be optimistic about. As of June, our economy had grown by roughly 15,600 jobs in just a year and unemployment rates are reaching record lows, with the unemployment rate in Suffolk County dropping to under 4%; it’s lowest level in over a decade. With the removal of some deeply flawed, job killing federal regulations, the trend has been for the federal government to step out of the way, making it easier for businesses to start up, build and expand. Reducing burdensome taxes and rescinding poorly designed regulations allow businesses to boom in our local communities as well as all across our country, translating to even more growth that spurs downtown revitalization and many other benefits. According to the Congressional Budget Office, thanks to a booming economy and plummeting unemployment, personal tax receipts are higher this year than originally anticipated. In fact, our economy is doing so well that right now there are more available jobs than people to fill the positions. Now more than ever, we need workers who have the skills to succeed in a 21st century economy. During my time in Congress, I secured passage of important legislation like the STEM Education Act, which provides federal funding towards STEM programs in our schools, helping to ensure American workers are equipped for a modern economy and employers have a well-trained workforce. While every nation’s backbone is its rule of law, legal and skilled immigrants can help fill job vacancies and bring specialized skills to help grow our economy. That is why legal immigration remains so important to the success of our country. Many companies in need of talented employees will leave our country for locations abroad if they cannot fill essential positions in the United States. Long Island still faces unique challenges such as high local property taxes, energy costs and an overall cost of living that have been chasing Long Islanders and opportunities away from home here on the island. In 2017, the average household income in Suffolk County was roughly $90,000. While that may seem like a lot of money in other parts of the country, it certainly does not go anywhere near as far on Long Island. The reason why our State and Local Tax deduction has been so high has been because our state and local taxes are so high. Our area’s ever-increasing taxes have become too high a cost to pay, affecting so many young people’s ability to raise their families here and seniors’ ability to stay in the communities they love. Our state and local governments can and must provide immediate relief. For those of us who grew up on Long Island, we understand best that our coastal economy is a critical part of our economy. In a district almost completely surrounded by water, we have a unique responsibility to safeguard our waterways and the hundreds of business that rely on our coastal economy. From standing up for our local fishermen to leading the fight against offshore drilling off the coast of Long Island, I have long championed the protection of the maritime industries and our local waterways that have supported Long Islanders for generations. Even our area’s manufacturing industry is trending upward with the number of manufacturing jobs in Suffolk County now at 72,300, increasing every month over the last few months. For generations, our communities’ stunning shorelines, beautiful beaches and rich history have drawn visitors from around the world, spurring Long Island’s booming hospitality industry. Our region’s past is hallmarked by our area’s rich agricultural and vida cultural industries, but so is our future. Farms, wineries and craft breweries are capitalizing on the many visitors that flock to our area, creating new businesses, new jobs and new local economic revenue with businesses that will grow and stay local. Long Island has also earned a world-renowned reputation for pioneering the future of clean and green energy, medical and scientific research, and cancer treatment thanks to innovation hubs like Stony Brook University and Brookhaven National Laboratory. Supporting good-paying jobs while paving the way towards the future of technology, I am proud of the joint work at Stony Brook University and Brookhaven National Lab and their record of pioneering in the field of clean and green energy. This is why I have opposed budget cuts that negatively impact these institutions and have secured full funding for their continued scientific research. I was born and raised on Long Island and am proudly raising my children here, because despite our challenges we live in the greatest Congressional District in America. It is critical that we allow each of our beautiful communities to grow, prosper, and attract innovation, ideas and research that can help create more good paying jobs on Long Island and further strengthen our local economy now and in the future. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York, serving on both the House Financial Services and Foreign Affairs Committees.
08.20.2018	YAPHANK, NY - On Monday, August 20, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Brookhaven Supervisor Ed Romaine and other local officials and civic leaders announced the dredging of Lower Yaphank Lake to remove sediment and invasive aquatic plant life: “Lower Yaphank Lake has long been overrun by invasive species plant life that has undermined the health and vitality of the lake and hindered local residents' ability to spend time fishing and enjoying the water. The Town of Brookhaven and all those who represent this community have been hard at work to get Lower Yaphank Lake cleaned up, restoring wildlife to a vibrant natural habitat through the construction of a fish ladder and now the dredging of decades of sediment and invasive species. I would especially like to thank Brookhaven Town for its leadership running point in the effort to restore Lower Yaphank Lake to its former beauty - clean and clear water, vibrant wildlife and native species, and a place local residents can finally enjoy again.“
08.20.2018	PECONIC, NY - On Saturday, August 18, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin was awarded the Peconic River Sportsman’s Club Senator Owen Johnson Man of the Year Award to recognize his leadership in environmental conservation and wildlife preservation.
08.20.2018	FARMINGVILLE, NY - On Saturday, August 18, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand and Suffolk County Community College President Dr. Shaun McKay participated in a roundtable discussion on the future of Long Island’s agriculture and fishing industries.
08.16.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after securing $3 million in federal funding needed to dredge 57,000 cubic yards over 2.7 miles of the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway to restore 6-foot depth to the waterway: “The dredging of the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway is great news for our coastal economy, commercial and recreational fishermen and all those whose livelihoods rely on the vitality of our communities’ waterways. After a series of recent storms, the state of the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway significantly deteriorated. With the dredging project for Moriches Inlet currently underway, this is another great victory for our coastal economy, boater safety and way of life. I would like to thank Colonel Tom Asbery at the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and his team for their superb attention to this urgent request I made on behalf of my concerned constituents.” Earlier this year, Congressman Zeldin called for the dredging of Moriches Inlet and Long Island Intracoastal Waterway after a series of winter storms. Congressman Zeldin recently secured the approval of and $12.25 million in funding for an emergency dredge of Moriches Inlet earlier this year and has now secured funding to dredge 2.7 miles of the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway near the inlet. Yesterday, August 15, 2018, the contractor’s survey vessel for the Moriches Inlet emergency dredge arrived on site and commenced work on the dredging project. The next step will include placing 750 foot long submergible pipe for the several mile distance between Moriches Inlet and the Smith Point County Park location that Congressman Zeldin secured to strengthen the beach in front of the boardwalk and increase its size. Once the pipe for the Moriches Inlet dredging has been placed, 10,000 cubic yards per day will be dredged from the inlet 24/7. The bid for the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway project is currently anticipated to open at the end of September, which will be followed by the awarding of a contract and then the commencement of work, which will require a much smaller pipe in the Intracoastal Waterway.
08.14.2018	HAUPPAUGE, N.Y. - On Tuesday, August 14, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) toured the Sorenson Video Relay Service (VRS) Interpreting Center in Hauppauge, the leading provider of video relay services for the deaf. During his visit, Congressman Zeldin was briefed on the interpreting profession and witnessed a live video demonstration of how the center assists Americans in need of their services.
08.14.2018	BRIDGEHAMPTON, N.Y.- On Thursday, August 9, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited the Children's Museum of the East End in Bridgehampton. During the visit, Rep Zeldin toured the museum and was updated on the Museum’s local educational outreach programs.
08.14.2018	STONY BROOK, N.Y.- On Monday, August 13, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) surprised local veterans playing Bingo at the Long Island State Veterans Home in Stony Brook where he participated as the bingo caller as part of “Undercover Congressman”, during which Rep. Zeldin works local jobs in NY-1.
08.14.2018	PORT JEFFERSON STATION, N.Y.- On Monday, August 13, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) toured Long Island Digestive Endoscopy Center in Port Jefferson Station and discussed issues impacting the industry as well the services they provide to the community. Pictured from left to right is Dr. Eugene Coman, Rep. Zeldin, Laura Green-Reinbachs, and Alexandra Reyes.
08.13.2018	STONY BROOK, NY - On Sunday, August 12, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was a guest speaker at the Eagle Scout Court of Honor for Troop 70 of Stony Brook. During the ceremony, Cole Palmer, Matthew Seyfert and Harry Merzin received the rank of Eagle, the highest rank in Scouting which requires years of dedication, service and leadership.
08.10.2018	SHIRLEY, N.Y.- On Friday, August 10, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin participated in a Suffolk County Police Department ride along during which Rep. Zeldin was able to experience a day in the life of our local law enforcement. Pictured above left, Rep. Zeldin scans license plates with Sergeant Chris Timpone.
08.09.2018	PATCHOGUE, N.Y. - On Tuesday, August 7, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with Rare Disease Legislative Advocate and Parent, Abigail Fiore of Stony Brook, in his Patchogue District Office. Congressman Zeldin helped lead the successful effort to pass the 21st Century Cures Act into law, which paves the way for healthcare innovation and removes barriers to research collaboration. Additionally, Congressman Zeldin helped secure $34 billion in highly sought after National Institutes of Health (NIH) funding.
08.09.2018	PATCHOGUE, N.Y.- On Tuesday, August 7, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with Long Islanders from the New York State School Boards Association in his Patchogue District Office to discuss federal and state issues of concern to local public schools.
08.09.2018	SOUTHAMPTON, N.Y.- On Thursday, August 9, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited the Southampton Animal Shelter to tour their facility and discuss their new programs and services to educate the community, serve our nation’s veterans, provide quality and low cost veterinary services and support families in caring for their pets. Pictured from left to right is Co-President Beau Hulse, Executive Director Jerry Rosenthal, Representative Lee Zeldin and Co- President Clifton Knight.
08.09.2018	NORTH PATCHOGUE, N.Y. - On Wednesday, August 8, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) held Mobile Office Hours at North Patchogue Fire Department. During Mobile Office Hours, Rep. Zeldin met one-on-one with constituents to discuss the issues most important to them including, veterans affairs, immigration, postal issues, and many other topics of interest. Constituents interested in participating in a future meeting can contact Congressman Zeldin’s office at (631) 289-1097. Rep. Zeldin is pictured above right with Peter DiPinto, who was recently awarded the Firemen's Association of the State of New York “Fireman of the Year” for saving a woman stuck on train tracks seconds before an oncoming train demolished her car.
08.06.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Reps. Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) and Scott Perry (R, PA-4) requested a mandatory declassification review of the classified report following the investigation of Palestinian Authority textbooks used by the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) for teaching school children in Gaza, the West Bank and East Jerusalem. A signed PDF of the letter is available here. Full text of the letter is as follows: Office of Information Programs and Services A/GIS/IPS/RL U. S. Department of State Washington, D. C. 20522-8100 Dear Sir/Madam: Pursuant to Section 3.5 of E.O. 13526, we are writing to formally request a Mandatory Declassification Review of the following report, “West Bank and Gaza: State Monitors Textbook Content but Should Improve Its Reporting to Congress GAO-18-227C: Published: April 26, 2018.” Last year, Senator James Risch requested that the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) perform an investigation of Palestinian Authority textbooks used by the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) for teaching school children in Gaza, the West Bank, and East Jerusalem. On April 26, 2018, GAO released the report as a classified product. In response, Chuck Young, managing director of public affairs at GAO stated, “The State Department determined the report needed to be classified and cannot be released publicly. GAO is required to follow such classification decisions. GAO must follow such classification decisions so we do not expect to issue a public report at this point. It would be available only to those with the necessary secret security clearance and a need to know, such as Members of Congress.” As an independent, nonpartisan agency, GAO has no classification authority nor does the Comptroller General of the United States. The State Department was the originating entity that determined elements of the report contained classified information. Many of our colleagues in Congress have read the GAO report and believe the information should be declassified and released to the public. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. Please contact Sara Matar with Rep. Lee Zeldin at (202) 226-1296 or Laura Detter with Rep. Scott Perry at (202) 225-5826, if you have any additional questions.
07.31.2018	SELDEN, N.Y. - On Tuesday, July 31, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted a Coffee with Your Congressman at the Selden Fire Department. Constituents had the opportunity to discuss Congressman Zeldin’s work in Congress and ask questions about topics of interest. Constituents wishing to participate in a future meeting can contact Congressman Zeldin’s office at (631) 289-1097.
07.30.2018	SAG HARBOR, NY - On Sunday, July 29, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended Jordan’s Run, which is named in honor of Lance Corporal Jordan Haerter of Sag Harbor who fell in the line of duty during a firefight in Iraq in April of 2008. Proceeds from the race go towards The Lance Corporal Jordan Haerter United States Marine Honor Courage Commitment Award and Scholarship, which is awarded to seniors who choose to serve their country through the military or law enforcement. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with Professional Boxer Cletus “Hebrew Hammer” Seldin, a Shirley resident and former WBC titleholder.
07.29.2018	BELLPORT, NY - On Sunday, July 28, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the annual Bellport Day festival, during which he met with Bellport Mayor Ray Fell (Far left in first photo) and local residents and assisted with a variety of federal issues.
07.28.2018	SOUTHOLD, NY - On Sunday, July 28, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY1) joined Suffolk County Legislator Al Krupski, Southold Town Supervisor Scott Russell, Southold Town Board Member Jill Doherty, and local residents for SoutholdVOICE’s annual meeting at the American Legion Hall in Southold, during which he spoke and answered questions regarding his legislative proposal that passed the House requiring the FAA to revisit the North Shore Helicopter Route, the National Flood Insurance Program and other issues facing Long Island’s North Fork.
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was joined by Representatives Peter King (R, NY-2), Tom Suozzi (D, NY-3) and Kathleen Rice (D, NY-4) in introducing the Vietnam Veterans Liver Fluke Cancer Study Act, which requires the Department of Veterans Affairs, in conjunction with the Centers for Disease Control, to conduct a study to determine the prevalence of “liver fluke” amongst the veteran population and the link between a veteran’s service record and affliction, paving the way for veterans to claim a service connected disability under their Veterans Affairs benefits. Congressman Zeldin said after introducing the bill, “I am deeply concerned about the Liver Fluke parasite that has infected so many of our nation’s veterans, especially our brave service members who were deployed to Southeastern and Eastern Asia. Preliminary reports appear to have indicated these veterans are carrying the dormant parasite Platyhelminthes, commonly known as ‘liver fluke’, which in several instances has led to the contraction of very serious, life threatening health conditions such as bile duct cancer and liver disease. Our nation’s veterans have earned nothing less than the highest quality care, and it is our responsibility as a nation to develop a plan, secure funding to test all veterans whose service exposed them to ‘liver fluke’, and if necessary, provide appropriate care, and do so as soon as possible. That’s why today, I was proud to introduce legislation on behalf of these very veterans, legislation that requires a long-overdue study of this disease and paves the way for infected veterans to receive the treatment they have earned.” Congressman King said, “We owe it to the men and women who put themselves in harm’s way to ensure they have the support and access to the very best in health care, treatment and outreach. I am proud to work with Rep. Zeldin on this legislation requiring the VA to study and ensure that any of our veterans who may have been exposed to ‘liver fluke’ are not at risk of having or developing bile duct cancer. This is simply too important and the number of incidents warrant immediate attention.” Congressman Suozzi said, “This study is long overdue. Potential exposure to liver fluke is causing anxiety among our veterans that is unnecessarily compounded by unknowns. A study is a step towards finding firm answers to alleviate that anxiety.” Congresswoman Rice said, “Nearly one in four Vietnam War combat veterans who participated in a study at the Northport VA tested positive for exposure to the liver fluke parasite. We cannot ignore these results, especially when liver fluke is known to cause bile duct cancer, a serious, life-threatening illnesses. These veterans served our nation bravely, and we have a responsibility to provide them with the health care services they need to live full and healthy lives. That is why I am proud to co-sponsor this bill, which would require VA to conduct a comprehensive study on the prevalence of the liver fluke parasites and related illnesses among our Vietnam War veterans. This study will ensure that we develop an appropriate screening and treatment plan for all at-risk veterans and I want to thank Congressman Zeldin for introducing this important piece of legislation.”
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON - On Wednesday, July 25, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with New Yorkers from the Supportive Housing Network as part of their National Conference on Ending Homelessness. During the meeting, they discussed preserving and expanding affordable housing on Long Island and across the country.
07.24.2018	WASHINGTON - On Tuesday, July 24th, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) welcomed the 106th Rescue Wing, which operates out of Francis S. Gabreski Air National Guard Base in Westhampton Beach, New York, to the United States Capitol, during which he thanked them for their service and sacrifice in defense of our great nation. Earlier this year, four NY-1 residents of the 106th Rescue Wing fell in the line of duty in Western Iraq. Congressman Zeldin released the following tweet and video after their visit:
07.23.2018	PATCHOGUE, N.Y. - On Friday, July 20, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted “Lunch with Lee” at American Legion Post 269 in Patchogue. During the event, Rep. Zeldin answered questions from constituents and took part in a substantive discussion regarding a variety of issues affecting our country and New York’s First Congressional District. Constituents wishing to participate in a future meeting can contact Congressman Zeldin’s office at (631) 289-1097.
07.23.2018	Part 1 of a 2 Part Op-ed by Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) Our economy is strong and growing stronger with an economic environment spurring considerable job growth and desperately needed opportunities for American workers. Millions of new jobs have now been created since the last Presidential election. The resurgence of our nation’s economy has brought those who had previously given up on finding work off the benches and back into the workforce with Latino unemployment falling to a record low of 4.6% and labor-force participation at an all time high for women, African-Americans and individuals without a college degree. Fewer Americans are relying on government programs and more are securing financial independence, finding the good-paying, high-quality jobs they need to support themselves and secure a brighter future for their family. With the reduction of unemployment and underemployment, the Department of Agriculture has reported that the number of SNAP participants has decreased by 2 million people since 2016, a testament to more Americans achieving financial independence. Through the reduction of corporate taxes and the elimination of harmful, job killing red tape and regulations, confidence and investment are soaring to new heights with companies that were previously fleeing the United States returning with good paying manufacturing jobs that have boosted GDP to higher than expected numbers. As a member of the House Financial Services Committee, I have worked to strike down executive branch regulations that unnecessarily harm consumers, small banks and the economy through the utilization of the Congressional Review Act, which allows Congress to vote down federal agency regulations that are causing damage both intentionally and unintentionally. Coupled with the Executive Branch’s executive orders, we are witnessing record low unemployment rates and businesses investing in their employees and our nation’s economy, bringing consumer confidence to hover near an 18-year high. In fact, our economy is doing so well that right now there are more available jobs than people available to fill the positions. Now, more than ever, we need workers who have the skills to succeed in a 21st century economy. It is critical we ensure access to career and technical education so all Americans who wish to work can thrive in a high-skill marketplace. During my time in Congress, I secured passage of important legislation like the STEM Education Act, which provides federal funding towards STEM programs in our schools, and I remain committed to forwarding programs that better prepare students for the 21st century workplace. No matter how much progress is ever made, there will always be important work still to do. One great area for further improvement is with America’s role in the global economy where opportunities to sell American goods are limitless and trade imbalances must be better addressed. Renegotiating NAFTA, pursuing advantageous bilateral trade deals, and effectively pushing back on highly problematic Chinese policies are all critical with this effort. Increasing GDP, boosting trade surpluses, and exporting American goods all while creating good paying American jobs help to strengthen our economy and security. To further help Long Islanders, it is also vitally important that New York gets its fiscal house in order where state income taxes, property taxes, and sales taxes are pushing people to move out of state. The inefficiencies, bloated budgets, energy and insurance costs, poorly designed regulations and lack of fiscal discipline and focus are resulting in some of the highest tax rates and least friendly business climates in the country. In the midst of this economic excitement around the country, it is my priority to ensure that the hardworking men and women of Long Island are feeling the positive economic impact, that each and every day it is a little easier to provide for themselves and their families. With our markets hitting historic highs, retirement and college savings accounts are as well, making it a little easier for Long Islanders who invest with the hopes of providing a better life for themselves and their families. Of course, that also means encouraging businesses to grow local and stay local, and driving down our now record unemployment rate. On Long Island, I’m leading the fight on behalf of our local workers, like our commercial and recreational fishermen and our entire shellfish industry, working to ensure that the regulations that guide their industry are fair and that the science that governs their quotas is sound, through reforming the Magnuson-Stevens Act. Furthermore, I’ve introduce legislation that would protect Long Island’s rich viticultural heritage, by cracking down on wines that falsely label themselves as being from Long Island. Additionally, we have a responsibility to support the next generation of Long Island farmers. That’s why I cosponsored the Support Young Farmers Act, which helps Long Island farmers by fostering market and economic growth and breaking down barriers that hinder the next generation of farmers’ ability to feed our nation, and have continued to work to ensure they have the workers they need to grow and run their business. Our area is also known for pioneering the future of clean and green energy through the joint work of Stony Brook University and Brookhaven National Lab. Their research and innovation is an integral part of our local economy, which is why I opposed budget cuts that would impact these institutions, and secured full funding for their continued scientific research. We have made so much progress and our economy is back to prove it. Promoting an economic environment that encourages growth and good paying jobs is so important to Long Islanders struggling to keep up, and I am committed to continuing to deliver for them. It is critical that Long Islanders are able to attain the American dream, right here, in New York. I will continue to pursue solutions on a bipartisan basis that help grow our middle class and improve the business climate on Long Island. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York, serving on both the House Financial Services and Foreign Affairs Committees.
07.20.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), co-chair of the Long Island Sound Caucus and founding member of the bipartisan Congressional Estuary Caucus, issued the following statement after House passage of the Interior, Environment, Financial Services, and General Government Appropriations Act of FY 2019 (H.R. 6147), which included $12 million in funding for the EPA’s Long Island Sound Program, $27 million for the National Estuary Program, $21 million for the EPA Wetland Program, and his legislative proposal to halt the sale of Plum Island: “Those of us who grew up on Long Island understand that our communities’ waterways are an integral part of our history, culture and entire way of life. The Long Island Sound alone support tens of billions of dollars in economic value per year, which helps so many hardworking Long Islanders put food on the table and provide a better future for their families. In a district almost completely surrounded by water, we have a unique responsibility to safeguard our local environment. Hand-in-hand with protecting our environment, we must preserve the state-of-the-art research facility on Plum Island, preserving this island’s natural beauty, diverse wildlife and ecosystem, as it continues to provide important economic and environmental benefits for Long Island.” Congressman Zeldin’s Plum Island Preservation Act, which would prevent the sale of Plum Island by the federal government to the highest bidder, has passed the House of Representatives unanimously two Congresses in a row, but the U.S. Senate has not acted on legislation to save the island. The Interior, Environment, Financial Services, and General Government Appropriations Act of FY 2019 (H.R. 6147) includes: $12 million for the EPA’s Long Island Sound Program $27 million for the National Estuary Program $21 million for the EPA’s Wetland Program Rep. Zeldin’s legislation to block the General Services Administration from marketing or selling Plum Island so the island can be preserved for conservation, education and research.
07.17.2018	PATCHOGUE, N.Y. - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) today announced that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has awarded the contract to carry out the emergency dredge of Moriches Inlet to Weeks Marine of Cranford, New Jersey. “The awarding of the contract to carry out the emergency dredge of Moriches Inlet is great news for our coastal economy, commercial and recreational fishermen and all whose livelihoods rely on the vitality of our communities’ waterways,” said Congressman Lee Zeldin. “I will continue to work with the Army Corps of Engineers and all affected by the deteriorated state of Moriches Inlet to complete this emergency dredge.” The next step is that the contractor is expected to mobilize to Moriches Inlet this month to prepare to begin work throughout the weeks thereafter. Sand removed from Moriches Inlet will be placed in front of the boardwalk at Smith Point County Park per Congressman Zeldin’s request. In March, Rep. Zeldin was joined by local elected officials, small businesses, boaters and fishermen in calling for an emergency dredge of Moriches Inlet during which Congressman Zeldin joined local fishermen to survey the inlet’s dangerous navigational conditions first-hand. In April, Rep. Zeldin worked with the Commander of the U.S. Army Corps New York District, Colonel Thomas Asbery, to receive the needed Emergency Declaration from the Army Corps of Engineers North Atlantic Division Brigadier General William Graham, granting Rep. Zeldin’s request to perform emergency dredging of the Moriches Inlet. This emergency declaration began the process of coordinating funding and permits so dredging vessels can begin work. In June, Rep. Zeldin secured $12.25 million in federal funding to complete the emergency dredge of Moriches Inlet. Additional information is available here.
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement following the Justice Department’s indictment of 12 Russians for the hacking of the Democratic National Committee and Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee: “Great progress today by DOJ/FBI and our Intel community to bring transparency and accountability regarding the DNC and DCCC hacking. Regardless of whether you are Republican or Democrat, conservative or liberal, Americans must stand united against meddling by foreign adversaries. Let’s keep this investigation within its appropriate, supervised scope!” Congressman Zeldin posted this tweet following the announcement.
07.12.2018	WASHINGTON - On Wednesday, July 11, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with Major General Troy Kok to discuss military readiness and the future of the Army Reserve. MG Kok is the Commanding General of the 99th Readiness Division, which oversees Army Reserve operations for our nation’s 13 northeast states.
07.11.2018	Watch Rep. Zeldin’s remarks here. WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) helped secure House passage of the Strengthening Fishing Communities and Increasing Flexibility in Fisheries Management Act (H.R. 200), the biggest fishing reform legislation to pass Congress in over a decade. This bill improves federal fisheries law so that regulations and quotas can be more transparent, equitable, and fair. H.R. 200 also improves data collection and science and ends the current arbitrary ten year rebuilding timeline, by replacing it with a more flexible approach that helps fishermen while preserving important fisheries. H.R. 200 includes Rep. Zeldin’s amendment to permit striped bass fishing in the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) between Montauk, New York, and Block Island, Rhode Island, allowing local control over the fishery.
07.11.2018	WASHINGTON- On Wednesday, July 11, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with the President of the New York Farm Bureau, David Fisher, to discuss issues important to New York and Long Island farmers.
07.11.2018	Watch Rep. Zeldin’s remarks here. WASHINGTON - On July 10, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) delivered a 17 minute speech on the House floor, regarding the Administration’s decision to withdraw from the Iran Nuclear Deal. Here are Congressman Zeldin’s remarks as prepared for delivery: “Mr. Speaker, last month, President Trump correctly withdrew the United States from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), otherwise known as the Iran Nuclear Deal. Tonight, during this hour, several Members of Congress will be speaking here on the House floor regarding the administration’s strategy to curb Iran's malign interests in the region and ensure Iran is no longer rewarded for its bad behavior. The Iran Deal was fatally flawed for what was in it...and fatally flawed for what was not in it. First, it is important to reflect on key lessons that should be learned from the manner in which the United States made several bad errors negotiating this so called “deal”. We must learn these lessons to make sure history does not repeat itself. First, the U.S. signed a preliminary agreement in 2013 that preemptively traded a large portion of our leverage even before formal negotiations had begun. The Iranians came to the table desperate for sanctions relief. They were not there as freedom-loving, good citizens of the world; nor were they aspiring to be. The leverage was sanctions relief, which is proof the sanctions were working. Non-nuclear activities weren’t also on the table, but should have been, because once you negotiate away the leverage that brings the Iranians to the table you have no leverage left to deal with everything left you still need to deal with. Second, the United States underestimated just how desperate the Iranian leadership was for this deal in order to stay in power. There was no reason for the United States to assume the position of weakness it did in the negotiation. We should have been by far the stronger party in the talks. For some very odd reason, the United States continued to negotiate from weaker and weaker positions for no good or acceptable reason. Next, one red line after another set by the United States was crossed with no consequences, further weakening our negotiating hand. The United States also very much cared about hitting target dates for the negotiation that Iran had no issue whatsoever with missing. That too further weakened our negotiating position. When the President of the United States and his administration gets rolled by a foreign adversary, all Americans get rolled. That is a huge problem. This was made worse, by paying a $1.7 billion cash ransom to get our hostages released. Pallets of unmarked cash had to be airlifted and delivered at the same exact moment of our hostages being released or they would not have been released. That’s a ransom whichever way you want to cut it. Paying this cash ransom to the world’s largest state sponsor of terror showed the ridiculous lengths the Obama administration was willing to go, at any and all costs, to appease Iran and show weakness to other American adversaries witnessing this play out. Recent reports revealed that the Obama administration misled the American people and granted a license letting Iran access the U.S. financial system when U.S. government officials pledged they would never allow Iran to access U.S. investments or markets. This Iran Nuclear “Deal” provided Iran with a jackpot of up to $150 billion in sanctions relief, without even asking for a signature. Secretary Kerry called it an “unsigned political commitment.” Ben Rhodes, the White House's taxpayer funded fiction writer, created an echo chamber to promote a false narrative and sell a devil's bargain of a deal to the American people. Even Democratic Members of Congress were feeling the heat from the White House, forced to support what they were privately admitting was an unsigned, unchecked, bad deal. Secretary Kerry admitted that this “deal” was never intended to receive Congressional approval. He said this wasn’t a treaty because a treaty would have been “impossible to pass.” Now that sure does not sound like the legal definition of a “treaty” does it? The U.S. should never have entered this historically bad deal to begin with and really could have done such a better job negotiating it. As I mentioned earlier, the Iran Deal was fatally flawed for what was put in it, and fatally flawed for what was left out of it. Next, I will discuss some of the reasons why it was fatally flawed for what was in it. The JCPOA isn’t a pathway for how to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon. It’s actually a blueprint for how Iran obtains a nuclear weapon. Two of the biggest issues with what is in the JCPOA is its flawed verification regime and highly problematic sunset provisions. President Obama said that the Iran Nuclear Agreement was not based on trust, but verification. How do you support a deal based on verification when you don't know what the verification is? The secret side deals between the IAEA and Iran outlining the verification regime are still a mystery to the United States and were never submitted to Congress. It has since been learned though that Iran collects some of its own soil samples and is the inspector of some of its own nuclear sites. Crazy right? Even former Secretary of State John Kerry admitted he hadn’t read the verification regime in those secret side deals when I questioned him about it at a House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing last Congress. The United States made a slew of permanent concessions in exchange for temporary concessions on the part of the Iranians, a point which comes into much greater focus as the sunset provisions are analyzed. The sunset clause undermines any reasonable justification for the deal providing Iran the capability to attain a nuclear weapon within just a few years even if it didn’t cheat at all on the deal. And that of course is in addition to the $150 billion jackpot of sanctions relief. Under the JCPOA, Iran was still allowed to assemble a limited amount of advanced centrifuges that could enrich uranium for a nuclear weapon within one year. However, Iran has even violated those minimal restrictions numerous times. Iran has spun more IR-6 centrifuges than permitted under the JCPOA. It has assembled more IR-8 rotor assemblies than it’s permitted to. It has attempted to acquire carbon fiber that it had agreed not to. It has stockpiled more heavy water than what was allowed under the JCPOA. With regards to verification, the Iranians have said before, during and after this agreement was entered into that no one will inspect their military sites. And on top of it all the United States agreed not to have any American weapons inspector participate in any inspections. The IAEA on its own has failed to conduct a thorough review of Iran’s nuclear testing capabilities. As just one example, in September 2015, when Iranian officials granted limited access to IAEA inspectors at the Parchin facility, although environmental samples revealed chemically man-modified particles of natural uranium, the IAEA did not pursue an explanation or even an inquiry. This Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action is a House of Cards. So what are we doing here people? Not only was a better deal absolutely obtainable, but no deal would have been better than this agreement. Next, I will discuss in further detail why the JCPOA was fatally flawed for what was not in it. When Secretary Kerry chose to ignore Iran’s bad, non nuclear activities in the region, he negotiated away the leverage that could have curbed Iran’s malign influence in the region. You cannot separate Iran’s ballistic missile development designed to deliver a nuclear warhead from its nuclear weapons program. Iran has continued to pursue it’s ICBM development in violation of UN Security Council resolutions. Iran has also continued to finance terror as the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism and work to overthrow foreign governments. Iran supports Assad in Syria, Hezbollah, the Houthis in Yemen. They have consolidated massive territorial control building a land bridge between Tehran and Beirut; a direct threat to the security and stability of regional partners such as Israel and Jordan. By failing to address Iran’s non nuclear activities, the JCPOA has given Iran more resources to pursue its hegemonic, terrorist ambitions in the region. These are unfortunately just a few of Iran’s bad activities. Since the JCPOA was entered into, Iranian aggression in the Middle East, including Iraq, Syria, and elsewhere, has only increased. Iran has launched as many as 23 ballistic missiles since the conclusion of the July 2015 nuclear deal. They have illegal financed terrorist activities wreaking havoc in the Middle East. Iran has recommitted to wiping Israel off the map calling them the little Satan, and chanting Death to America in their streets and in their parliament calling the US the great Satan, all while unjustly imprisoning American citizens. In the past two years, Iran has blown up mock U.S. warships, seized one of our naval vessels and subsequently held hostage and publicly embarrassed 10 American sailors. Remember Secretary Kerry’s reaction to Iran holding hostage and embarrassing our sailors? His response was “thank you”...”thank you”. He defended the whole situation as evidence of a better relationship with Iran. Talking about living in an alternate universe of reality. One fundamental question is often misunderstood and in many cases not even asked: What leverage could we have moving forward to tackle all of Iran’s threatening actions if we eliminate the sanctions that brought Iran to the table in the first place? President Trump is absolutely correct to reimpose the toughest sanctions against Iran’s oil and financial sector and IRGC officials, agents and affiliates. In order to regain the leverage that brought the Iranians to the table, we must increase financial pressure so that Iran does not have the ability to back terrorist groups across the world and keep their economy afloat. With Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, and National Security Advisor, John Bolton, working so closely to our President to counter Iran’s aggression, I feel confident when they say, “No path to a nuclear weapon, not now, not ever.” The onus is on Iran. If they like the sanctions relief and want to keep the sanctions relief, the United States has just a few very reasonable requirements. The verification regime needs to be fixed. The sunset provisions need to be lifted. And the other bad, nefarious, illegal, terrorist activities must end. If there are any other nations around the world that want to keep the sanctions relief in place, then convince Iran to change its behavior and agree to the U.S.’ very reasonable demands. It is very telling that so many nations in the Middle East are supportive of President Trump’s determination to push back against Iranian aggression. In 2009, millions of Iranians poured into the streets to protest the fraudulent reelection of then-President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. The United States and rest of the world then offered zero support following that undemocratic election. President Obama said it was all none of our business, which proved to not only be wrong, but also a huge error in judgment. We must learn our lesson from 2009 and not repeat that same mistake. The U.S. must support the millions of Iranians who continue to march in the streets desperate for support to help them turn the tide in Tehran and all throughout Iran. Now in 2018, Iranians have once again courageously poured into the streets to protest the brutality of President Hassan Rouhani’s regime. Over the past few months, we have been witnessing the largest protest in Tehran since 2012. Keep in mind that whenever we hear about how the most moderate candidates get elected in Iran that is after the 12,000 most moderate candidates are denied access to the ballot in the election. The only choice has been to pick a pro-regime hardliner and we should be under no illusions otherwise. By withdrawing from the JCPOA, President Trump is sending an important message to the Iranians that America will not accept a regime that tortures its own people, funds terrorist activities, and vows for the destruction of the United States and our great ally, Israel. The United States is a nation that is not even close to equals with Iran. We are the greatest nation in the world and we must reposition our posture from one of weakness to one of strength. That is all that this adversary respects. We cannot be silent when tested not because we want war but because we want to prevent it. No longer will we be treating Iran like Israel and Israel like Iran. Throughout the next hour, we will discuss the President’s correct decision to pull out of the agreement as well as the urgent need to eliminate Iran’s problematic nuclear and non-nuclear activities. Joining me tonight, are Members of Congress from across our great country, who are deeply passionate about America’s best interests, and supportive of the President’s decision to withdraw from the Iran Deal.”
07.09.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after President Trump nominated D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court: “Congratulations to Judge Kavanaugh on his nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court. I strongly believe that regardless of whether a Judicial Court nominee is chosen by a Republican President or a Democrat President, or whether the nominee is conservative, moderate, or liberal in his or her beliefs, it is most important that the individual would not be an activist on the bench or allow their personal beliefs overcome the required objectivity to strictly interpret the law and our Constitution. Rooted in a long history of service to our nation's justice system, I look forward to the Senate’s consideration and deliberation of the President’s nominee.”
07.09.2018	SOUTHOLD, NY - On Wednesday, July 4, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the Southold 4th of July parade. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with Southold Town Councilwoman Jill Doherty (left) and Southold Deputy Supervisor and Councilman Bill Ruland (right).
07.09.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - On Wednesday, July 4, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the Patchogue 4th of July parade.
07.09.2018	MASTIC BEACH, NY - On Saturday, July 7, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) celebrated the 300th anniversary of the William Floyd Estate with staff, volunteers and visitors. William Floyd was one of New York’s four signers of the Declaration of Independence and the first Member of Congress to represent New York’s First Congressional District.
06.29.2018	Rep. Zeldin (center right) pictured above with the Bytyqi family and Praveen Madhiraju (far left), the families legal representation. WASHINGTON - On Thursday, June 28, 2018, H.Con.Res. 20, legislation Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) introduced calling for justice following the 1999 executions of NY-1 residents, Ylli, Agron and Mehmet Bytyqi, who resided in Hampton Bays, New York, passed the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. Rep. Zeldin made the following statement during Committee consideration of the legislation: “Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the Committee’s consideration of these bills today. Beginning with H.Con.Res. 20, this resolution has been introduced since 2013 regarding the execution-style murders of Ylli, 25 years old, Agron, 23 years old, and Mehmet, 21 years old, who were born in the United States, and resided in the greatest Congressional District in America in Hampton Bays, First Congressional District of New York. In July of 1999, these three brothers went overseas towards the end of the Kosovo war and were arrested by Serbian authorities for illegally entering the country when they accidentally crossed into Serbian-controlled territory. The brothers were kidnapped, murdered, and dumped into a mass grave in Serbia by government officials still serving today. “Since taking office, I have been committed to helping the Bytyqi family receive the justice they have long deserved. They are here today in the audience in support of today’s resolution and to honor their family’s sacrifice. It is absolutely reprehensible that, despite many promises by Serbian officials to resolve the case of this state-sponsored murder, no individual has ever been found guilty of this horrible crime, nor of any other crimes associated with the deaths of these innocent Americans. It is the Serbian government’s responsibility to resolve this case, and my resolution notes that progress with this investigation should remain a significant factor which determines the further development of U.S.-Serbian relations. The Bytyqi brothers gave their lives to fight injustice; now we must return this favor and deliver justice for their family. “I want to thank the Chair for his support in bringing this resolution, I’d like to thank the Ranking Member, Eliot Engel, for all of his advocacy through the years, and all my colleagues for supporting it.” Rep. Zeldin’s entire speech can be viewed here, starting at the 45:50 mark. ###
06.26.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced the approval of his request for an extended dredging period for Wickham Creek. Pummeled by a series of unprecedented nor’easters, Wickham Creek suffered from increased shoaling and dangerous navigational conditions. However, dredging is prohibited between January 1st and September 31st. With summer upon us, Rep. Zeldin worked with United States Fish and Wildlife Service, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Suffolk County Department of Public Works and the Town of Southold to secure an extended dredging period for Wickham Creek until June 30th. “A series of unprecedented Nor’easters pummeled Long Island, leaving many of our communities’ navigational channels impassable,” said Congressman Zeldin. “With the summer upon us, the dangerous condition of Wickham Creek was a safety hazard to recreational and commercial boaters alike and threatened the maritime economy supported by this important waterway. The extension of the dredging period will restore safe navigational conditions to this waterway just in time for summer.” Southold Town Supervisor Scott Russell said, “I am pleased Congressman Zeldin was successful in extending the dredge window to maintenance dredge Wickham Creek, and appreciate his ongoing efforts in addressing the environmental and navigational conditions of our inlets.”
06.25.2018	SELDEN, N.Y. - On Monday, June 25, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was joined by Suffolk County Executive Steve Bellone, Suffolk County Police Chief Stu Cameron, Fire, Rescue, and Emergency Services Commissioner Joe Williams, other local elected officials and first responders to urgently call on Congress to pass the Don’t Break Up the T-Band Act (H.R. 5085) and preserve the T-Band spectrum to allow law-enforcement, fire officials and EMS to continue using it to operate their radios for day-to-day life saving operations. Currently, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) is required under a 2012 federal law to reallocate and auction the T-Band spectrum by 2021, which would result in major fiscal and public safety setbacks in major metropolitan areas across the United States. The T-Band is a portion of spectrum used in 11 heavily populated metropolitan areas, including New York, covering over 90 million Americans, to support critical public safety communications (i.e. police and fire radios) and provide regional interoperability among first responders. Public safety agencies have spent numerous years and billions of dollars of federal, state and local funds to plan and build out these T-Band networks. The result is battle-tested public safety networks that provide resilient coverage, reliability and regional interoperability. This spectrum is essential to public safety and for many public safety entities there is nowhere else to move. Rep. Zeldin was recently joined by several House colleagues in introducing the Don’t Break Up the T-Band Act to preserve the T-Band spectrum before it is reallocated for good. Congressman Zeldin (R, NY-1) said, “Our first responders bravely and selflessly put their lives on the line each and every day to protect our communities, and our first priority must be ensuring they have the resources they need to safely and effectively do their jobs. From hurricanes to fires, in the most dire situations, the T-band spectrum provides critical communication between first responders. Even when cell phones, internet, and electricity cease to function, T-band is the last line of defense, and selling off this spectrum would be at great financial cost as well as a great disservice to our nation’s first responders and the millions of Americans they serve.” Suffolk County Executive Bellone said, “The T-band frequency is a critical link for half of Suffolk County’s 109 fire departments and 27 EMS agencies who utilize the radio to communicate in emergency situations every day. Congress must act to maintain public safety communications here on Long Island and across our region. I thank Congressman Zeldin for sponsoring this important legislation to preserve our first responders ability to communicate effectively and keep Long Islanders safe.” Brookhaven Deputy Town Supervisor and Councilman Dan Panico said, "Congressman Zeldin's advocacy on this issue is extremely well reasoned. His comments at the press conference were superb and illustrative to all in attendance of the need to act now, as opposed to in 2021. I commend him on this effort." South Country Ambulance Chief Greg Miglino said, “One of the most important tools First Responders have when time matters is effective communication. The T-Band law as it stands potentially could jeopardize a system that already is working for our citizens while burdening them with billions in new costs. We support Congressman Zeldin’s efforts to get this law repealed to avoid this from happening.”
06.25.2018	Watch Rep. Zeldin’s remarks here. WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement on the House floor in support of the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act of 2018 (H.R. 299), which included the Flexible VA Loan Guarantee Act (H.R. 815), legislation he introduced to expand veteran homeownership opportunities, which passed the House of Representatives unanimously this evening: “Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 299, the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act, of which I am a proud cosponsor and I thank the great Congressman from California David Valadao for his leadership introducing this important legislation. This bill expands treatment coverage for those affected by Agent Orange from not only those who served on the ground, but to those service members, who are known as Blue Water Navy Vets, who were affected while serving our nation at sea. “In my home county of Suffolk, which has the highest concentration of veterans in New York State, hundreds of Vietnam veterans and their families will now be able to receive the benefits they have earned. These brave service members have put their lives on the line for our great nation, and they have earned nothing less than the highest quality care. “Additionally, this legislation includes my bill, the Flexible VA Loan Guarantee Act, which expands veterans opportunity for homeownership by eliminating the loan limit the VA can guarantee. This is especially critical in districts like mine where the median home price is higher. “I thank Chairman Roe for bringing this bill to the floor, and I urge all of my colleagues to support our nation’s veterans by voting in favor of this common sense legislation.” The Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act of 2018 expands treatment coverage for those affected by Agent Orange from not only those who served on the ground, as currently stands, but to those service members who were affected while serving at sea. The Flexible VA Loan Guarantee Act would eliminate the loan limit or “maximum guarantee amount” of a loan that the Veterans Affairs Administration (VA) can guarantee for a veteran, providing the VA with the flexibility to determine the appropriate limit for individual veterans loans and expand access to homeownership in areas like Long Island where real estate values are higher.
06.25.2018	Part 2 of a 2 Part Op-ed By Congressman Lee Zeldin In the first of this two-part op-ed, I discussed how the rising cost of prescription drugs has dealt a crushing blow to the wallets of everyday Americans and put a great strain on the government supported programs some of our country’s most vulnerable populations, our seniors, children, disabled and impoverished communities, rely on. I discussed how Medicare Part D reforms can deliver lower drug prices for everyday Long Islanders. Furthermore, to further incentivize competition, the government can encourage scientific innovation through competitive grants, tax incentives and patent reform. Promoting scientific innovation in the field of biological drugs could reduce the cost of existing medications and allow for the more expedited delivery of treatment to those who need it. These biological products often represent the cutting-edge of research and development, potentially offering the most effective means to address formerly untreatable medical conditions. Thanks to the 21st Century Cures Act, which became law last Congress, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has broader authority to prioritize the review of these breakthrough drugs and devices and use new types of data that helps streamline the approval process and provide potentially lifesaving drugs to patients. It is widely known that new medication costs an enormous amount of money to come to market, but currently there is no way to verify why a certain drug costs what it does. Though most pharmaceutical companies invest approximately $2.7 billion over a decade to produce a new drug, the price charged to consumers often far outstrips that average development cost. The cost of researching and developing new medication assumed by pharmaceutical companies oftentimes includes not only the cost of the drug that comes to market, but all of the research, failed and successful, that led to the creation of the new drug and unrelated past unsuccessful research and development, as well as the cost of investing in future research and development. Ensuring patients understand what they’re paying for and why they’re saddled with that cost is important. Requiring increased, reasonable requirements for transparency on the part of drug companies regarding the drugs they sell is an important step in understanding why prescription drugs have come to cost what they do. In pharmacies across Long Island, it is critical patients see cost-savings as soon as possible, and an important component of cost-savings is clearly understanding your coverage plan. Currently, Medicare Part D plans provide either an annual or quarterly Explanation of Benefits statement to beneficiaries. This means, if a doctor writes a prescription for a patient, it is the patient’s responsibility to contact their insurance company and determine the cost of the drug and if there is an alternative available. Even if the patient manages to get someone from their insurance company on the phone, it is likely many patients wouldn’t understand the convoluted information provided to them. Our nation’s pharmacists are on the front lines of providing prescriptions to everyday Americans, and arming them with updated information on a weekly or monthly basis would provide them the opportunity to identify an alternative medication and price. In contacting the prescriber, pharmacists could ask whether the prescriber felt the cheaper alternative was suitable and inform the patient. Instead of a patient attempting to navigate the maze of information provided by their insurance company, this process would take a matter of minutes and patients would have confidence they were getting the appropriate medication at a more affordable price. In addition to educating patients and pharmacists on the plans they currently have, there are dozens of rebate and discount programs available to the general public, especially seniors, low-income individuals and children. However, they are forced to navigate through a maze of bureaucracy to understand the programs that could benefit them. Making this information easily accessible to the public and local pharmacies alike would make these programs more readily available to those who need them most. In ensuring prescription drugs are available to those who need it most, we must also ensure prescription drugs are kept out of the wrong hands. That’s why Congress just passed a series of bills aimed at empowering pharmacists in the fight against opioid abuse, encouraging the safe disposal of unused medication and promoting better pain management. While legislative action will likely need to compliment these efforts, the Department of Health and Human Services has laid out a blueprint for action, which includes several of these proposals in order to bring drugs to market faster, increase competition and transparency and lower the overall cost of prescription medications, and in Congress, I’m committed to supporting these efforts. Driving down our nation’s ever-increasing cost of prescription drugs is a complex challenge; one that must be met with a multifaceted approach that includes addressing the rising cost of medication and educating patients, especially seniors and low-income individuals, on the affordable options available to them. I look forward to continue working with my colleagues in Congress on a bipartisan basis to further address this complex issue that has stuck so many Americans with the life-saving medicine they need at a price they cannot afford. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York in Congress where he services on both the House Financial Services and Foreign Affairs Committees.
06.25.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after securing $1.9 million for the dredging of Lake Montauk Harbor in the Fiscal Year 2018 Army Corps of Engineers Workplan: “Lake Montauk is a critical waterway for our local fishing and recreational boating industries and the Long Islanders whose livelihoods rely on our coastal economy. Ensuring the proper maintenance of this important harbor is critical to supporting our community’s vibrant maritime economy and preserving the rich heritage on which it was built.” Senator Ken LaValle said, “The fishing industry is a vital part of the fabric of the East End. Montauk is one of New York’s largest commercial fishing ports and we must work hard to ensure that it remains viable. I am pleased that Congressman Zeldin was successful in obtaining $2 million for the dredging of the Harbor. It will go a long way to keep a sustainable and productive commercial fishing industry on Long Island.” East Hampton Town Supervisor Peter Van Scoyoc said, “As the largest fishing port in New York State, Montauk serves a key economic role in the seafood and tourism industries. The safety of all vessels using Lake Montauk and the docks inside the harbor depends on regular dredging, and we look forward to this project.”
06.25.2018	FARMINGDALE, NY - On Saturday, June 23rd, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined the family of Corporal Gregory Foster for the rededication of his headstone, which now includes the Silver Star Corporal Foster earned during his service in Vietnam. On March 23, 1969, then-Private First Class Gregory Foster was a machine gunner in Vietnam. During an intense exchange of fire with a large North Vietnamese Army unit, Foster rushed through the line of fire to rescue two of his fellow Marines who were wounded. For his bravery and courage, Foster was awarded the Silver Star. Upon returning home and joining the New York Police Department, Officer Foster was killed in the line of duty alongside his partner and fellow Marine veteran, Rocco Laurie, on January 27, 1972, at the age of 22. When Corporal Foster was laid to rest at Long Island National Ceremony, the Silver Star he earned during his time in Vietnam was not included. Earlier this year, a fellow veteran and NYPD officer who was on duty the night Foster was killed, reached out to Rep. Zeldin requesting assistance in recifying this error. Working with the Department of Veterans Affairs and Long Island National Cemetery, Rep. Zeldin assisted in acquiring a new headstone, which included Corporal Foster’s Silver Star. On Saturday, June 23rd, Rep. Zeldin joined Corporal Foster’s family, NYPD officers, and his fellow veterans for the rededication ceremony of Corporal Foster’s new headstone.
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON - On Thursday, June 21, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) co-hosted with Congressman Alcee Hastings (D, FL-20) the annual Bipartisan Black and Jewish Members of Congress Breakfast to discuss combating anti-semitism and discrimination in our communities and throughout our nation. Special Guest Speakers included Anti-Defamation League (ADL) CEO and National Director Jonathan Greenblatt, NAACP President and CEO Derrick Johnson and NAACP Senior Vice President for Advocacy and Policy Hillary O. Shelton.
06.21.2018	Official White House Photo by Shealah Craighead WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) presented yesterday the flag of local Smithtown resident Donato Panico to President Trump, per Donato’s request, in the Oval Office. “In the aftermath of 9/11, Donato Panico drove from his deli in Smithtown to Ground Zero to feed the many first responders who for weeks and months searched through the rubble for the loved ones of so many,” said Congressman Zeldin. “In thanks for his service to these first responders, one of them gifted this flag which flew on one of the surrounding buildings. Knowing this flag wasn't his, but rather a part of history, Donato sent the flag to Iraq with a local deployed serviceman who he instructed to bring back the flag when he returned home safe. After flying the flag over his camp in Iraq, he returned home and returned the flag to Donato. This year, Donato joined me as my guest for the State of the Union in honor of his commitment to our first responders and our community. While in Washington, he asked me to give this flag to President Trump, which I had the opportunity to do in the Oval Office. Donato is who we aspire to be as New Yorkers and as Americans, and this flag is a symbol of his service, the service of our brave servicemen and women and the so many lives lost on that tragic day. Today, Donato continues to dedicate his life to our community's first responders through his foundation, Heros 4 Our Heroes, which aims to feed Long Island's first responders in thanks for their service. Thank you Donato for everything you have done for our community and our nation!” In recognition of his service to our community and first responders, Donato Panico was Rep. Zeldin’s guest for this year’s State of the Union address. In traveling to our nation’s capital, Donato brought his flag with him and discussed it during an episode of Live: Lee in DC. He requested Rep. Zeldin present the flag to President Trump.
06.20.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), who met with President Trump at the White House earlier this afternoon to discuss the family separation issue and other important immigration policies, issued the following statement after the President just signed an Executive Order to detain parents and their children together. The Executive Order can be viewed here: “Following a very productive meeting earlier this afternoon with President Trump and House colleagues at the White House to discuss the family separation issue and other important immigration policies, I welcome this afternoon’s Executive Order as a positive step in the right direction. It’s not good policy to separate children at our border from their parents and release them into the United States as UACs. It’s also not good policy to immediately release families who enter our country illegally into our communities. I further believe that it would be wrong to detain the children in cages just like the Obama Administration did. This is an issue that has transcended Administrations. The Flores decision will either need to be reconsidered in the courts or Congress will need to pass legislation to change federal law. I support whichever option can be done swiftly and correctly so that families are detained together at the border. In the meantime, my advice for anyone who doesn’t want to be detained for entering into the United States illegally is to not enter the United States illegally.”
06.18.2018	Part 1 of a 2 Part Op-ed by Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) The rising cost of prescription drugs has dealt a crushing blow to the wallets of everyday Americans and put a great strain on the government supported programs some of our country’s most vulnerable populations, our seniors, children, disabled and impoverished communities, rely on. According to a report by Express Scripts, a prescription benefits company, between 2008 and 2015, name brand drug prices increased by 164%. These price spikes frequently make life-saving medications unaffordable. When it comes to driving down the cost of prescription drugs for those who need it most, we must consider every option. This Congress, in an effort to keep pace with an ever-changing marketplace and ever-evolving scientific innovation, the FDA Reauthorization Act of 2017 (H.R. 2430) was passed into law to bring lower-cost generic drug alternatives and biosimilars to market faster by increasing competition and lowering drug costs. With an increase in authority and flexibility, this reauthorization streamlines the process for reviewing and approving new treatments and cures for patients, ultimately delivering new and innovative therapies, drugs and devices to patients more quickly. Under current law, the federal government has the ability to negotiate the prices of the prescription drugs government purchases from manufacturers, but the negotiating authority is insufficient and outdated. Currently, the federal government has the ability to negotiate prices under Medicare, but even when the government can negotiate prices, it is hamstrung by overregulation that ensures it cannot push for the same prices charged throughout the rest of the world. Under Medicare Part B, before reimbursing doctors, Medicare adds 6% to the sales price reported by pharmaceutical companies, then forces patients to cover 20% of the total cost. The burden to negotiate for prices is disproportionately left to doctors, often small practitioners who lack the market power to bargain effectively. As a result, Medicare pays significantly more than European countries for the same drugs, passing costs along to taxpayers and patients alike. The drug companies receive a windfall from Medicare’s lack of negotiating ability, reporting profit margins more than double market averages and earning upwards of an additional $50 billion annually in revenue from overcharging consumers. So what else can government do to lower the price of prescription drug prices? With some reforms, Medicare Part D could provide the rough outlines of a solution. Within Medicare Part D, private non-profit and for-profit health insurance companies bid to provide prescription drug coverage for Medicare beneficiaries and separately negotiate prices with pharmaceutical companies. The incentive for Part D plan sponsors to negotiate lower prices comes from the fact that they can then reduce their premiums for Medicare beneficiaries and therefore attract more customers. Due to the fact the taxpayer subsidy depends on the bids submitted by plan sponsors, this competition benefits not only Medicare beneficiaries, but taxpayers overall. Medicare Part D should be reformed to provide plans increased flexibility to enhance negotiating power with drug manufacturers and drive down costs for beneficiaries. Notably, the bid system within Medicare Part D could ensure that cheap and effective generic products reach consumers. By forcing companies to bid for Medicare’s business, the government could promote competition within the marketplace, driving down prices on name-brand products. While depression medication Welbutrin costs, on average, $6,000 per 100 pills, its generic counterpart, Bupropion, costs only $50-$60 for the same quantity. Though name-brand anxiety drug Adivan also costs, on average, $6,000 for 100 pills, an equal supply of Lorazepam costs only $2-$3. The shocking discrepancies in price continue across the board, from asthma medication to EpiPens to blood pressure drugs to cancer treatments. The recent price spike in a 2-pack of EpiPens from around $100 to over $600 epitomizes the monopoly power of the drug companies. The producer of EpiPens could overcharge customers at will, confident that few generic counterparts could compete. Similarly, the price of insulin to treat diabetes tripled within 10 years, the cost of asthma medication increased 6% and the price of Betaseron spiked from $8,000 per year to close to $60,000. Americans who rely on EpiPens and other drugs in potentially life and death situations have been railroaded with a lifesaving medication at a price they cannot afford and we must work to drive down the increasingly burdensome cost they have been saddled with. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York in Congress where he services on both the House Financial Services and Foreign Affairs Committees.
06.15.2018	WASHINGTON - Following his support of 26 bipartisan bills that passed the House of Representatives earlier this week to combat the heroin and opioid abuse epidemic, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, issued the following statement after voting in favor of an additional 10 bipartisan bills aimed at tackling this epidemic, the leading cause of death for Americans under 50, through prevention, treatment and recovery. Just this week, Rep. Zeldin supported a total of 36 bipartisan bills to combat the epidemic. “Our nation has been debilitated by the rise of the heroin and opioid abuse epidemic, and with each death this heartbreaking issue continues to become increasingly personal”, said Congressman Zeldin. “This is a disease claiming lives, tearing apart families and destroying our communities. I’ve been to too many wakes as a Member of Congress where a young man or young woman was being buried due to an overdose. Even one young life lost is too many. These are our children, and when it comes to our sons and daughters this couldn’t possibly be any more urgent of a crisis. From law enforcement to local elected officials, medical professionals to members of local community groups, everyone has a role to play in eradicating this devastating epidemic and I am pleased to see so many of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle working together to eradicate this devastating disease.” In 2016, Congressman Zeldin helped lead the effort to pass into law the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), which provides $8.3 billion in federal funding to help combat the heroin and opioid abuse epidemic through treatment, education, enforcement and prevention. As a member of the House Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, Rep. Zeldin has and continues to support legislative initiatives that provide our communities with the tools and resources necessary to combat this growing epidemic. A full list of all of the bipartisan bills passed this week are as follows: H.R. 449 - Synthetic Drug Awareness Act of 2018 H.R. 4284 - INFO Act H.R. 4684 - Ensuring Access to Quality Sober Living Act of 2018 H.R. 5002 - ACE Research Act H.R. 5009 - Jessie's Law H.R. 5041 - Safe Disposal of Unused Medication Act H.R. 5102 - Substance Use Disorder Workforce Loan Repayment Act of 2018 (this is missing a digit) H.R. 5176 - Preventing Overdoses While in Emergency Rooms Act H.R. 5228 - SCREEN Act H.R. 5261 - TEACH to Combat Addiction Act of 2018 H.R. 5272 - To ensure that programs and activities that are funded by a grant, cooperative agreement, loan, or loan guarantee from the Department of Health and Human Services, and whose purpose is to prevent or treat a mental health or substance use disorder, are evidence-based H.R. 5327 - Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers Act of 2018 H.R. 5329 - Poison Center Network Enhancement Act of 2018 H.R. 5353 - Eliminating Opioid Related Infectious Diseases Act of 2018 H.R. 5473 - Better Pain Management Through Better Data Act of 2018 H.R. 5483 - Special Registration for Telemedicine Clarification Act of 2018 H.R. 5582 - Abuse Deterrent Access Act of 2018 H.R. 5583 - To amend title XI of the Social Security Act to require States to annually report on certain adult health quality measures H.R. 5587 - Peer Support Communities of Recovery Act H.R. 5685 - Medicare Opioid Safety Education Act of 2018 H.R. 5800 - Medicaid IMD ADDITIONAL INFO Act H.R. 5812 - CONNECTIONS Act S. 916 - Ensuring Patient Access to Substance Use Disorder Treatments Act of 2018 H.R. 4275 - Empowering Pharmacists in the Fight Against Opioid Abuse Act H.R. 5197 - ALTO Act H.R. 5294 - Treating Barriers to Prosperity Act of 2018 H.R. 5752 - Stop Illicit Drug Importation Act of 2018 H.R. 6902 - REGROUP Act of 2018 H.R. 5889 - Recognizing Early Childhood Trauma Related to Substance Abuse Act of 2018 H.R. 5890 - Assisting States’ Implementation of Plans of Safe Care Act H.R. 5891 - Improving the Federal Response to Families Impacted by Substance Use Disorder Act H.R. 5892 - To establish an Advisory Committee on Opioids and the Workplace to advise the Secretary of Labor on actions the Department of Labor can take to address the impact of opioid abuse on the workplace H.R. 2147 - Veterans Treatment Court Improvement Act of 2018 H.R. 5788 - Securing the International Mail Against Opioids Act of 2018 H.R. 5735 - Transitional Housing for Recovery in Viable Environments Demonstration Program Act H.R. 2851 - Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act of 2017
06.15.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced the approval of his request for an extended dredging period for North Sea Harbor. Pummeled by a series of unprecedented nor’easters, North Sea Harbor suffered from increased shoaling and dangerous navigational conditions. The needed dredging equipment arrived at North Sea Harbor on June 7th with the original dredging period scheduled to end June 9th. In order to allow enough time to complete the necessary dredging, Rep. Zeldin worked with United States Fish and Wildlife, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Suffolk County Department of Public Works and Southampton Town Trustees to secure an extension of the dredging period for North Sea Harbor until June 30th. “A series of unprecedented Nor’easters pummeled Long Island, leaving many of our communities’ navigational channels in impassable condition,” said Congressman Zeldin. “One of those hit hardest was North Sea Harbor, which has suffered from increased shoaling, hindering recreational and commercial industries and the residents who rely on them to provide for their families. In coordination with the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, the extension of the dredging period is critical to ensuring the work that is needed is completed while simultaneously protecting the wildlife that call our waterways home.” “I would to thank everyone who engaged in the dredging process of North Sea Harbor. Federal, State, County and Local Governments all working together to achieve a positive outcome for the maritime heritage of the East End,” said Lisa Dunlap on behalf of the Board of Trustees of the Freeholders and Commonalty of the Town of Southampton. “We have been working for the better part of two decades to begin these efforts to save North Sea Beach. It was fantastic to see the President Warner at the Southampton Trustees; Supervisor Schneiderman, of Southampton Town, Suffolk County Department of Public Works; the Army Corps of Engineers; and Congressman Zeldin demonstrate real leadership by coming together to take the first of many steps on this project,” said Nat Wienecke, Vice President of North Sea Beach Colony Association.
06.15.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin issued the following statement after the Department of Justice (DOJ) Office of Inspector General released its 568 page report, “A Review of Various Actions by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Department of Justice in Advance of the 2016 Election”: “The Inspector General’s report is further confirmation of many critical points contained within my 12-page House Resolution 907, which details misconduct at the highest levels of the DOJ and FBI. The ranks of the DOJ and FBI are filled with hardworking public servants who serve and love our great nation, and that’s why the findings of this report are so alarming. “The agents on-the-ground and all Americans throughout our exceptional country deserve a Justice Department that upholds the rule of law and not an agency run amuck by senior staff who engage in widespread and highly problematic misconduct, including partisan, political biases overcoming the need for sound objectivity and good judgment.” Additionally, Congressman Zeldin posted the following on Twitter: “Peter Strzok, who launched counter intel probe on Trump campaign, texted "we'll stop" Trump from being elected. The reality is the invest. was launched bc Pres Trump became GOP nominee, was extended w/FISA abuse bc he was closer to winning & became Special Counsel probe bc he won.” View the tweet here. “Today's IG report is further confirmation of so many points of my 12 page House Resolution 907, detailing misconduct at the highest levels of the DOJ/FBI. H.Res.907, which is now up to 32 total sponsors, also calls for the appointment of a 2nd Special Counsel.” View the tweet here. “IG concludes Strzok's anti-Trump texts "not only indicative of a biased state of mind but, even more seriously, implies a willingness to take official action to impact the presidential candidate’s electoral prospects. This is antithetical to the core values of the FBI and (DOJ)." View the tweet here. “Peter Strzok should not be employed at the FBI as a waterboy, let alone as an FBI agent. Why does he still have a job at the Bureau? This tarnishes the great reputation of the amazing patriots up & down the ranks at the FBI who actually pursue justice objectively & responsibly.” View the tweet here. “Talking about friends w/benefits to make Strzok & Page blush (Pg 430 & Attachments G & H). Massive leaking at the Bureau. Meanwhile, FBI employees receive from media free tix to sporting events, golf outings, free drinks & meals & more.” View tweet here. In May, Rep. Zeldin drafted and was joined by dozens of his colleagues in introducing a House Resolution detailing gross misconduct at the highest levels of the DOJ and FBI regarding how and why the Clinton email probe ended and calling for the appointment of a second Special Counsel to investigate the misconduct that took place. The resolution is now sponsored by 32 Members of Congress
06.12.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, issued the following statement after voting in favor of 26 bipartisan bills aimed at tackling our nation's growing opioid epidemic, the leading cause of death for Americans under 50, through prevention, treatment and recovery. In addition to the 26 bills passed today, throughout this week, the House will be considering at least 10 additional bills aimed at combating the epidemic. “As a whole, our nation has been debilitated by the rise of the heroin and opioid abuse epidemic, and with each death this heartbreaking issue continues to become increasingly personal”, said Congressman Zeldin. “This is a disease claiming lives, tearing apart families and destroying our communities. I’ve been to too many wakes as a Member of Congress where a young man or young woman was being buried due to an overdose. Even one young life lost is too many. These are our children, and when it comes to our sons and daughters this couldn’t possibly be any more urgent of a crisis. From law enforcement to local elected officials, medical professionals to members of local community groups, everyone has a role to play in eradicating this devastating epidemic and I am pleased to see so many of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle working together to eradicate this devastating disease.” Among the 26 bills passed are measures to develop follow-up protocols after an opioid overdose patient is discharged, allow the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to research non-addictive pain medications and streamline the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) process of intercepting illicit drugs. A full list of today’s bills can be found here. In 2016, Congressman Zeldin helped lead the effort to pass the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) into law, which provides $8.3 billion in federal funding to help combat the heroin and opioid abuse epidemic through treatment, education, enforcement and prevention. As a member of the House Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, Rep. Zeldin has and continues to support legislative initiatives that provide our communities with the tools and resources necessary to combat this growing epidemic.
06.11.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) just announced the Fiscal Year 2018 Army Corps of Engineers Workplan was released today, including $12 million in funding for the completion of the Army Corps approved emergency dredging of Moriches Inlet. Sand removed from Moriches Inlet will be placed at Smith Point County Park to address beach erosion. Additional engineering details as laid out in the Army Corps solicitation for contracts to carry out the dredging, which was issued on May 22nd, can be viewed here. In March, Rep. Zeldin was joined by local elected officials, small businesses, boaters and fishermen in calling for an emergency dredge of Moriches Inlet during which Congressman Zeldin joined local fishermen to survey the inlet’s dangerous navigational conditions first-hand. In April, Rep. Zeldin worked with the Commander of the U.S. Army Corps New York District, Colonel Thomas Asbery, to receive the needed Emergency Declaration from the Army Corps of Engineers North Atlantic Division Brigadier General William Graham, granting Rep. Zeldin’s request to perform emergency dredging of the Moriches Inlet. This emergency declaration began the process of coordinating funding and permits so dredging vessels can begin work. “The approval of funding for the emergency dredging of Moriches Inlet is great news for our coastal economy, commercial and recreational fishermen and all whose livelihoods rely on the vitality of our communities’ waterways,” said Congressman Lee Zeldin. “I will continue to work with the Army Corps of Engineers and all affected by the deteriorated state of Moriches Inlet to complete this emergency dredge.” “I just want to thank Congressman Zeldin for his efforts in coordinating the emergency dredging project in Moriches Inlet, and Bay,” said Joe Tangel, Owner of KING COD Fishing in Center Moriches. “It is a great relief for boaters and fishermen in the area to know that something will finally be done to ensure our safety and economic viability.”
06.08.2018	PATCHOGUE, N.Y. - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement as the planning process begins for repairs to the Bellport marina bulkhead and parking lot, damaged during Superstorm Sandy, which was awarded $2.3 million in federal funds through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA): “Long Islanders were hit hard by Superstorm Sandy, and so many of our communities are still rebuilding years later. The federal funding provided to this important project will assist the residents of Bellport in rebuilding their local marina stronger and more secure than ever before.” Mayor of Bellport Ray Fell said, “The Village of Bellport was thrilled to learn that FEMA awarded our community 2.3 million dollars to replace the bulkhead at the Village’s marina that was damaged by Superstorm Sandy. We are very appreciative to Congressman Lee Zeldin, for his assistance and support in obtaining this grant. The Bellport Village marina is a revenue source that is vital to our yearly budget and the Village has always been a boating community going back to the whaling days.” In April, the Village of Bellport received the final notification that they were awarded the $2.3 million grant and has now begun the planning stages of the repairs and construction. In July 2017, Rep. Zeldin voted to fund FEMA Federal Assistance Grants at $27 billion, including the Public Assistance Grant Program from which Bellport received this $2.3 million grant.
06.05.2018	MATTITUCK, N.Y. - On Monday, June 4, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) honored Goksel Zaim and Christopher Imbriano, both members of Mattituck High School’s NJROTC program, for being selected to attend Boys State, a prestigious week-long program designed to immerse exemplary high school juniors in citizenship and leadership training.
06.05.2018	WASHINGTON - Reps. Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) and Josh Gottheimer (D, NJ-5) introduced today in the House of Representatives a joint resolution supporting Israel’s inherent right of self-defense against Hamas and others. The bipartisan, bicameral resolution also condemns the violence and provocations caused by Hamas. Senator Tom Cotton of Arkansas will introduce the companion resolution in the Senate. Congressman Lee Zeldin (NY-1) said, “Hamas is a terrorist group that has pledged to wipe Israel off of the map, uses civilians as human shields, financially rewards people for getting themselves shot, and provokes and commits acts of violence. They have destabilized and ruined many aspects of life in Gaza and has left Israel with no choice but to protect its border with the use of lethal force. Israel has an inherent right of self-defense and will without hesitation act to protect innocent Israeli citizens who live near the border with Gaza. Like every other sovereign nation, Israel has the right to defend itself against a terrorist organization that refuses to recognize its very right to exist, and, as one of our nation’s greatest allies, we must stand shoulder to shoulder with Israel as they safeguard their innocent citizens against violence at the hands of Hamas. I look forward to continuing to fight for the Jewish State alongside my House colleague Rep. Gottheimer, Senator Cotton and other staunch advocates of Israel in Congress.” “The terrorist group Hamas, which seized control of Gaza in 2007, is well known for firing rockets and digging terror tunnels into Israel, murdering and kidnapping Israelis, and using women and children as human shields, all while residents of Gaza suffer from a humanitarian crisis of its own making. It is a tragedy that Hamas’ leaders care so little about Gazans that they have chosen time and again to perpetuate and escalate violent conflict, as they did just last week when Hamas fired rockets into civilian areas in Israel. Let it be clear: Congress stands with Israel as it defends itself and its citizens against this heinous terrorist group,” said Congressman Josh Gottheimer (NJ-5).
05.31.2018	PORT JEFFERSON, N.Y. - On Thursday, May 31, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited the Port Jefferson High School Investment Club as a guest speaker. During the visit, Congressman Zeldin answered questions from students in the club and discussed his work on the House Committee on Financial Services. Last year, the Port Jefferson High School Investment Club placed fifth in the annual SIFMA Foundation's educational Stock Market Game.
05.30.2018	EAST HAMPTON, N.Y. - On Wednesday, May 30, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) held Mobile Office Hours at the East Hampton American Legion Post 419. During Mobile Office Hours, Rep. Zeldin met with constituents both one-on-one and in small group settings to discuss the issues most important to them. Constituents interested in participating in a future meeting can contact Congressman Zeldin’s office at (631) 289-1097.
05.30.2018	EAST HAMPTON, N.Y. - On Wednesday, May 30, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted a Coffee with Your Congressman Town Hall at American Legion Post 419 in East Hampton. Attendees had the opportunity to discuss Congressman Zeldin’s work in Congress and ask questions about topics of interest. Constituents wishing to participate in a future meeting can contact Congressman Zeldin’s office at (631) 289-1097.
05.30.2018	CALVERTON, NY - On Monday, May 28, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was a Guest Speaker at the Calverton National Cemetery Memorial Day Ceremony to honor the service and sacrifice of our nation's fallen veterans.
05.30.2018	STONY BROOK, NY - On Friday, May 25, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined local veterans as a Guest Speaker at the Long Island State Veterans Home in Stony Brook for their Memorial Day ceremony.
05.30.2018	EAST SETAUKET, NY - On Monday, May 28, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the East Setauket Memorial Day Parade and then participated in the Ceremony that followed. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above honoring our fallen service members during the Ceremony.
05.29.2018	BROOKHAVEN, NY - On Monday, May 28, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the Brookhaven Memorial Day Parade and spoke at the Ceremony that followed. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with the South Country Ambulance Corps and local elected officials.
05.29.2018	RIVERHEAD, NY - On Saturday, May 27, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined Riverhead Town elected officials, Riverhead residents and the friends and family of Tech Sgt. Dashan Briggs in honoring him with a street forever named in his memory. Tech Sgt. Briggs and three other members of the 106th Rescue Wing out of Westhampton Beach, New York, fell in the line of duty in Iraq in March 2018. Rep. Zeldin is pictured above with Tech Sgt. Briggs’ widow, Rebecca Briggs, and grandfather, Eli Briggs.
05.25.2018	HAMPTON BAYS, N.Y. - On Friday, May 25, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined the Hampton Bays School District for their Monthly Flag Ceremony, during which they honor a local veteran for serving our community and country. This month’s veteran was Corporal Daniel Stebbins of Hampton Bays to whom Rep. Zeldin presented a certificate of Congressional recognition.
05.25.2018	HAMPTON BAYS, N.Y. - On Friday, May 25, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited Hampton Bays High School’s 12th grade Participation in Government class as a guest speaker. During the visit, Congressman Zeldin answered questions from students in the class.
05.23.2018	BETHPAGE, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) traveled with President Trump today from Washington, D.C. to Bethpage, NY, for a roundtable discussion at the Morrelly Homeland Security Center, regarding efforts to combat MS-13. Reps. Peter King (R, NY-2) and Dan Donovan (R, NY-11) also travelled with President Trump and Congressman Zeldin aboard Air Force One to participate in the event. Watch Rep. Zeldin's roundtable remarks here. In July 2017, President Trump visited Suffolk County to discuss his administration’s efforts to combat MS-13. Then in February 2018, Rep. Zeldin met with President Trump at the White House on this important topic.
05.23.2018	WASHINGTON - On Wednesday, May 23, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with Center Moriches Middle School students visiting Washington, D.C. to welcome them to our nation's capital, discuss his service in Congress and answer their questions.
05.22.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - On Wednesday, May 23, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) will travel with President Trump from Washington, D.C. to Bethpage, NY, where a roundtable discussion will take place at the Morrelly Homeland Security Center, regarding efforts to combat MS-13 on Long Island as well as other violent criminal organizations. Congressmen Peter King (R, NY-2) and Dan Donovan (R, NY-11) will also be traveling with President Trump and Congressman Zeldin aboard Air Force One to participate in this event. “From the vicious machete attack of four young men in Central Islip, to the childhood best friends brutally murdered by MS-13 in Brentwood, our community has witnessed the indiscriminate brutality of gang violence first hand,” Congressman Zeldin said ahead of the event. “Every level of government has a role to play in combating the rise of MS-13 and other gangs, and we must crack down on the aspects of our nation’s broken immigration system and other policies that have allowed MS-13 and other gangs to take hold in our communities and stay there. Furthermore, we must ensure our community’s law enforcement officials have the resources they need to safely and effectively do their jobs on the ground in our communities. Securing our neighborhoods shouldn’t be a partisan issue, and I applaud President Trump for traveling back to Long Island, an area that has been hit hard by gang violence, to hear directly from those most impacted.” In July 2017, President Trump visited Suffolk County to discuss his administration’s efforts to combat MS-13. Then in February 2018, Rep. Zeldin met with President Trump at the White House on this important topic.
05.22.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was joined by Representatives Mark Meadows (R, NC-11), Jim Jordan (R, OH-4), Ron Desantis (R, FL-6), Matt Gaetz (R, FL-1) and other Members of Congress announcing the introduction of a 12-page House Resolution detailing misconduct at the highest levels of the Department of Justice (DOJ) and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) with regards to FISA Abuse, how and why the Hillary Clinton email probe ended, and how and why the Donald Trump-Russia probe began. The Resolution, sponsored by at least 19 Members of Congress, will call for the appointment of a second special counsel to investigate the misconduct that took place. Rep. Zeldin posted the following tweet after the press conference announcing its introduction: “Will be introing this res today w/ @RepMarkMeadows @Jim_Jordan @RepDeSantis @RepMattGaetz & many others detailing misconduct at highest levels of DOJ/FBI re FISA abuse, how/why Clinton probe ended, Trump-Russia probe began & calling for 2nd Special Counsel https://zeldin.house.gov/sites/zeldin.house.gov/files/ZELDIN_051_xml%205.21%20v2.p” View the tweet here. Rep. Zeldin’s remarks as prepared: “19 Members of Congress are introducing today a 12 page House resolution detailing misconduct at the highest levels of the Department of Justice and Federal Bureau of Investigation with regards to FISA abuse, how and why the Hillary Clinton email probe ended and how and why the Donald Trump-Russia probe began. This resolution also calls for the appointment of a Second Special Counsel to investigate this gross misconduct, with the understanding that the Justice Department cannot be expected to investigate itself. It’s very important to note that the ranks of the DOJ and FBI are filled with amazing, patriotic Americans who love their job, take their oath seriously, and perform their jobs objectively and with much respect for the rule of law. These are historic, legendary agencies that require transparency and accountability regarding the misconduct that took place. It is important for these exceptional public servants and important agencies to continue their work moving forward stronger than ever before. As the resolution states, “the concerns of the American people are serious and the issues requiring an immediate, unbiased, independent, and thorough investigation are broad.” In just the past few days, we learned that the DOJ, FBI, or both appear to have planted at least one person into Donald Trump’s Presidential campaign to infiltrate and surveil the campaign. This action alone reminds us of just how necessary this resolution is as well as the appointment of a second special counsel. First, we will discuss some of the misconduct related to how and why the Hillary Clinton email probe ended. Then we will get into details related to FISA abuse that took place, and finally, we will discuss the misconduct with regards to how and why the Donald-Trump Russia probe began. With regards to Secretary Clinton, federal law, and State Department rules, regulations, and protocol were violated, with her use of a private email server in her Chappaqua, New York, home. Official communications were transmitted on an unsecured server and included emails that contained classified information when they were sent, in addition to other emails which were retroactively deemed classified by the Department of State. Former FBI Director James Comey has acknowledged that 65 of these illicit emails were classified as ‘‘Secret’’ and 22 were classified as ‘‘Top Secret’’. There is significant evidence that the use of this private server by Secretary Clinton was meant to avoid compliance with the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and done to obstruct justice by not having to turn over incriminating emails in the case of a subpoena. Various sensitive emails subject to grand jury and congressional subpoenas were destroyed on Secretary Clinton’s private server through the use of ‘‘BleachBit’’ software and the destruction of hardware before they could be obtained by investigators in March 2015. In a September 2015 meeting between then-Attorney General Loretta Lynch and then-Director Comey, the Attorney General instructed Director Comey to refer to the Clinton email investigation as a ‘‘matter’’, thus watering down the severity of the investigation and aligning the Justice Department’s rhetoric with the messaging of the Clinton campaign. Cheryl Mills, who served as Counselor and Chief of Staff to Hillary Clinton during her entire tenure as Secretary of State, was offered immunity from prosecution in exchange for access to her laptop that contained many of the questionable emails. According to transcripts obtained by the Senate Judiciary Committee, former Director Comey was prepared to exonerate Hillary Clinton as early as April or May of 2016 when he began to draft a statement announcing the end of his investigation, before up to 17 key witnesses, including former Secretary Clinton and several of her closest aides, were even interviewed. Comey contradicted these transcripts when he stated during sworn testimony before the House Judiciary Committee on September 28, 2016, that he made the decision not to recommend criminal charges for Secretary Clinton ‘‘after’’ she was interviewed by the FBI on July 2, 2016. Director Comey, in the final draft of his statement, allowed FBI Agent Peter Strzok to replace ‘‘grossly negligent’’, which is legally punishable under Federal law, with ‘‘extremely careless’’, which is not legally punishable under Federal law. Federal law states gross negligence in handling the nation’s intelligence can be punished criminally with prison time or fines (18 U.S.C. 793, 798). There is also the June 27, 2016, covert, infamous meeting between AG Lynch and former President Bill Clinton aboard her plane on the tarmac in Phoenix, Arizona. Immediately thereafter, Hillary Clinton would be exonerated. On July 5, 2016, Director Comey violated DOJ rules and unilaterally exonerated then-presidential candidate Hillary Clinton in a public statement to the media. One day later, on July 6, 2016, an announcement followed from Attorney General Lynch that the DOJ investigation into then-presidential candidate Hillary Clinton would be formally closed with no criminal charges. In September 2016, the FBI, during an examination of the personal laptop of former Congressman Anthony Weiner as part of an unrelated investigation into him sending sexually explicit messages to a teenage girl, discovered previously unexamined Department of State classified emails belonging to his spouse, top Clinton aide Huma Abedin. It took until October 28, 2016, for Director Comey to announce via a letter to the chairs of the relevant congressional committees that he was reopening the investigation into Hillary Clinton, an additional, egregious delay after the FBI failed to even examine the illicit emails after the FBI discovered them on Anthony Weiner’s computer. FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe’s wife, Dr. Jill McCabe, was running for Virginia State Senate at the time and, as of October 26th, had received $675,000 in donations from the Virginia Democratic Party and Common Good VA, the Leadership PAC controlled by Democratic Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe, a longtime Clinton associate. An investigation conducted by the Office of the DOJ Inspector General noted that on October 27, 2016, Director Comey required that Deputy Director McCabe remove himself from a conference call regarding the Clinton emails discovered on Anthony Weiner’s laptop to avoid the appearance of a conflict of interest after media reports surfaced noting these questionable political donations. Further investigation into whether then-FBI Deputy Director McCabe and other FBI officials sought to purposely delay the release of these illicit emails for politically motivated purposes is warranted. Throughout the Obama Administration, the DOJ failed to fully investigate serious concerns surrounding former President Clinton, then-Secretary of State Clinton, and the Clinton Foundation’s connection to Russian company Uranium One, which received Department of State approval to purchase U.S. uranium mines in 2010. Throughout Hillary Clinton’s tenure as Secretary of State, a family foundation controlled by the Chairman of Uranium One made $2,350,000 in contributions to the Clinton Foundation which were not publicly disclosed in violation of an agreement Secretary Clinton had with the Obama White House to publicly identify all donors. In 2010, while Russian State interests were working to both acquire a majority stake in Uranium One and to purchase American mines, Bill Clinton was paid $500,000 for a speech in Moscow by a Kremlin-linked Russian investment bank that was underwriting Uranium One stock. A confidential informant who worked with the FBI to uncover bribery and other corruption related to the Uranium One matter was threatened with reprisal by the Justice Department under Attorney General Lynch when he tried to come forward in 2016. The Senate Judiciary Committee launched a probe in October 2017 to investigate the Uranium One matter, including whether Federal departments and agencies such as the Department of State knew the FBI was looking into possible corruption before the deal was approved. An investigation conducted by the Office of the DOJ Inspector General noted that a multi-State investigation into the questionable dealings of the Clinton Foundation with corrupt donors was shut down in August 2016, when pressure was asserted on the FBI by senior officials within the Obama Justice Department. The same Inspector General’s report also noted that shutting down this investigation into Clinton Foundation impropriety and influence peddling was connected to high ranking officials in the DOJ and FBI, including Attorney General Lynch, Director Comey, and Deputy Director McCabe. The same Inspector General’s report also found that Deputy Director McCabe, after consenting to the political pressure to shut down the Clinton Foundation multi-State investigation, attempted to later use unauthorized leaks to the press to create a false narrative that he was opposed to the closure of the investigation and that he did this in an attempt to salvage his reputation following revelations of questionable Clinton-connected money being donated to his wife’s Virginia State Senate campaign. FISA Abuse: In October 2016, the FBI and DOJ used politically biased, unverified sources to obtain warrants issued by the United States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court of Review (FISA Court) that aided in the surveillance of U.S. citizens, including Carter Page. The warrants grant U.S. intelligence and law enforcement agencies sweeping power to collect bulk information and conduct ‘‘about collection’’, which results in surveillance of a broad array of private communications from the past, present, and future, including those of U.S. citizens not specifically targeted in the FISA authorized warrant. To obtain these warrants, FBI and DOJ officials submitted an unverified dossier prepared by Christopher Steele to the FISA Court, failing to disclose that Christopher Steele was hired by the firm Fusion GPS, which was hired by the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton campaign to prepare this dossier and that the source was unreliable and was soon thereafter going to be terminated as a source. The FISA Court was not informed that Christopher Steele was actively opposed to the election of Donald Trump, that he was the unnamed source cited in the media reports that the FBI used to corroborate his dossier, and that Fusion GPS had been hired to perform previous anti-Trump research efforts in 2015. The Woods Procedures, which are the FBI’s mandatory vetting process required for all FISA warrant applications instituted to ensure that all the facts contained in an application are accurate and verified to clearly support probable cause for a warrant, were not followed. Former Director Comey admitted in sworn testimony to the Senate Judiciary Committee on June 8, 2017, that material contained in the Steele dossier was known to be both ‘‘salacious’’ and ‘‘unverified’’. Since FISA warrant applications are rarely turned down, are almost never subject to appeal, and are presented in closed court with no public record where the Government is not challenged by any defense, it is imperative that the Government take extra care to validate the information being utilized to build their case before they take the extraordinary step of waiving rights of a U.S. citizen without his or her knowledge or the opportunity to present a defense. At the FISA Court, the Government has a responsibility not only to provide its best evidence in support of its case, but also to provide the best evidence against its case. These deeply flawed and questionable FISA warrant applications utilizing illicit sources and politically biased intelligence were approved by DOJ and FBI officials at the highest levels before being submitted to the FISA Court. It was further not disclosed to the FISA court that the wife of fourth-ranking DOJ official Bruce Ohr worked for Fusion GPS and that Christopher Steele directly transmitted the dossier and other information through Bruce Ohr for submission to the FISA court. Trump-Russia Probe: To this day there does not appear to be any evidence that President Trump colluded with the Russians to win the 2016 election. The initial FBI probe into the Trump Campaign and alleged collusion with Russia was launched in July 2016, based on questionable and insufficient intelligence and biased motivations. The DOJ, FBI, or both appear to have planted at least one person into Donald Trump’s Presidential campaign to infiltrate and surveil the campaign. Text messages exchanged between FBI Agent Strzok and FBI Counsel Lisa Page, during the period of August 16, 2015, to May 17, 2017, contain serious evidence of political bias and the improper handling of investigations within the agency. Whereas the texts contain egregious evidence of bias against President Trump, including Lisa Page stating ‘‘Trump should go f himself’’ and Peter Strzok stating ‘‘F TRUMP’’. Those text messages were not stored within the FBI archive system, an egregious oversight blamed on a technical glitch, and even after these messages were partially recovered by the Bureau’s Inspector General in January 2018, many unanswered questions remain regarding impropriety and bias. Former Director Comey prepared a series of seven memoranda containing classified information, including notes on his conversations with President Trump. Comey admitted in sworn testimony to the Senate Committee on Intelligence on June 8, 2017, that he had leaked this content to a personal friend and encouraged that friend to share the material with the press in order to trigger a Special Counsel investigation. An investigation conducted by the Senate Judiciary Committee later revealed that the personal friend of Director Comey was Professor Daniel Richman of Columbia Law School and that Director Comey provided him with four of the seven memoranda. Director Comey’s actions are a clear violation of non-disclosure agreements he signed as a condition of his appointment and a clear violation of FBI protocols regarding the dissemination of sensitive information outside of the Bureau which are based on provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a). In March 2018, former FBI Deputy Director McCabe was fired by Attorney General Jeff Sessions who noted that Deputy Director McCabe ‘‘lacked candor—including under oath—on multiple occasions’’ and had partaken in ‘‘unauthorized disclosure to the news media’’, among other violations noted in a report issued by the Office of the DOJ Inspector General after a wide-reaching investigation into Deputy Director McCabe’s conduct. A myriad of DOJ and FBI personnel have been fired or demoted, or have resigned, including FBI Director Comey, Deputy Director McCabe, Chief of Staff to the Director James Rybicki, FBI General Counsel James Baker, FBI Agent Strzok, FBI Counsel Page, FBI Special Agent Josh Campbell, DOJ Senior Official Ohr, FBI Assistant Director Michael Kortan, and Assistant Attorney General Peter Kadzik. The DOJ has failed to timely comply with several related document requests by Congress. Providing Members of Congress with heavily redacted versions of some but not all of the documents demanded and offering Members limited in-person viewing of these documents is an inadequate response to repeated requests after months of delay by the DOJ. As I prepare to introduce my colleagues for their remarks, in conclusion, I would just like to point out that while many in the media and American public have been trying to bring down the President of the United States without evidence that President Trump colluded with Russia to win election, there is a ton of actual evidence of real misconduct that those same people in the media and American public have been attempting to completely sweep under the rug. I believe in equal scales of justice. That no one is above the law. That includes anyone regardless of last name and that even includes people at the highest levels of the DOJ and FBI especially when misconduct is committed in the performance of their duties while trying to take down elected officials and candidates. No official at the Justice Department can ever allow their own personal bias to overwhelm their own objectivity and responsible performance of their duties. A second special counsel must be appointed and transparency and accountability is demanded for these great, legendary, historic agencies. With that they are sure to move forward stronger than ever before.” ###
05.21.2018	In December 2005, a resolution recognizing May as Jewish-American History Month passed the House, and then the Senate three months later. In a unified front, President George W. Bush reaffirmed this month long celebration with a presidential proclamation. There are few things in our nation’s capital that are agreed upon unanimously, but there is no question when it comes to the contributions of the Jewish people to the fabric of American life. The history of the Jewish people spans thousands of years, marked by adversity, triumph and a unique Jewish identity that has outlived the Roman empire, transcended the Middle Ages and prevailed in the face of genocide. They have made some of the greatest contributions to science, medicine and literature, forever changing our entire way of life while maintaining a community that is uniquely their own. The scientific advancements pioneered by the Jewish people have revolutionized everything we know about our world from how we view it to its very existence. At just 26 years of age, Albert Einstein, a German-born Jew who continued his work in New Jersey, published four groundbreaking papers that laid the foundation of modern physics and spurred the development of his theory of relativity. Einstein’s reputation for academic achievement is so renown that, today, the word Einstein is synonymous with genius. Einstein’s academic accomplishments pioneering modern physics are unparalleled, but Einstein is far from the only Jewish-American who has had a profound effect on even the most commonplace aspects of American life. In the early 1800s, Levi Strauss was born to an Ashkenazi Jewish family in Germany. At the age of 18, Strauss travelled to the United States where he would invent and patent the quintessential American garment - the blue jean - and found the world renowned denim company Levi’s. In his success, Levi Strauss went on to become one of San Francisco’s biggest philanthropists, giving to the Pacific Hebrew Orphan Asylum and Home, Eureka Benevolent Society and Hebrew Board of Relief. Levi Strauss’ success, generosity and passion for giving back to his community is representative of the Jewish people as a whole. Throughout hundreds of years, Jewish-Americans have worked to make our nation a better place for their fellow Americans, advocating for women’s rights, marching alongside the leaders of the civil rights movement, serving in every branch of the military and working at every level of government. The passion, spirit and character of the Jewish people is something I have aspired to foster in our community and our nation’s capital. In the same way Jewish-American History Month was founded, the importance of passing on the traditions of the Jewish people to the next generation should be agreed upon unanimously. Founded in its rich culture and history, the Jewish-American community has shaped the soul of our country, their ideals sewn into the very fabric American life. Through their actions and willingness to stand shoulder to shoulder with their fellow Americans, they have truly made our nation and our entire world a better place for mankind.
05.17.2018	WASHINGTON - On Wednesday, May 16, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with 8th graders and chaperones from East Moriches Middle School visiting Washington, D.C. on the steps of the U.S. Capitol to welcome them to our nation’s capital and answer their questions.
05.17.2018	Watch Rep. Zeldin’s testimony here. Download testimony here. WASHINGTON - On Wednesday, May 16, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) gave the following testimony before the House Veterans Affairs Committee on behalf of Suffolk County’s over 83,000 veterans and the hurdles they face when accessing the care they have earned: “Thank you Mr. Chairman for the opportunity to address the Committee on Veterans Affairs, and thank you for the great work you all do on behalf of our nation’s veterans. While, to date, we have made significant improvements to VA healthcare, I would like to use this time to discuss just some of the many areas where Congress and this committee could take further action. Expanding access to essential services, both inside and outside the VA system, as well as providing robust funding to address the VA’s aging infrastructure needs must be considered a top priority in order to improve the overall patient experience for our brave service men and women. I would also like to take a moment to thank the committee for its support in advancing critical legislation which will benefit hundreds of thousands of veterans across the country. With the support of this committee, this year, my legislation to provide no-cost Adult Day Health Care to 70% or more service connected disabled veterans was signed into law. In my home district in Suffolk County, the Long Island State Veterans Home serves 80 veterans through their Adult Day Health Care Program and since the enactment of this legislation, even more veterans have been able to sign up for this critical care. One of the statistics that concerns me most is that each and every day, 22 veterans take their own life. We must do more to improve access and quality of mental health services that are offered to our nation’s service men and women. In New York, a program I created as a State Senator, the PFC Joseph Dwyer Veteran Peer Support Project, leverages the military cultural values of trust, respect, perseverance and self-reliance to provide opportunities for healthy reintegration through interaction with other veteran peers in a setting that is confidential and anonymous, while ensuring access to program resources regardless of discharge status. This peer support model works and is saving countless lives. Since its inception, the program has spread to over a dozen counties across New York State, and my bill, H.R. 897 would use the successful model employed by the Dwyer Project on a national scale allowing veterans across the country to benefit from this proven model. With the highest population of veterans by county in New York State, and one of the highest in the entire country, there is a significant need for systematic infrastructure upgrades to Long Island's Veteran Hospital - the Northport VA Medical Center. This 90 year old facility has experienced a significant strain in providing the majority of medical services to Suffolk County’s over 83,000 veterans. While Congress has acted to provide the VA with necessary funding to address these construction, demolition and infrastructure issues, several projects remain in limbo due to the sheer volume of issues that must be addressed throughout the system. We must ensure that the VA follows through on its promise to deliver a higher quality of care by updating and modernizing each facility across the nation. In coordination with addressing these issues to ensure Northport can provide the best service, providing increased access to care outside of a VA medical center must remain a top priority as well, including access to telemedicine and CBOCs. It’s been encouraging to see all of the great work this committee and Congress has accomplished when it comes to reforming the bureaucracy that has hindered our nation's veterans across the country. I look forward to working with each and every one of you. I thank the Chair for the opportunity, and I yield back.”
05.15.2018	WASHINGTON - On Tuesday, May 15, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with the ALS Association, including several constituents, to discuss funding for the National Institutes of Health, Centers for Disease Control and his support of the ALS Disability Insurance Access Act (H.R. 1171), which he has cosponsored.
05.14.2018	For descriptions of the photos above, as well as additional photos, click here. JERUSALEM - On Monday, May 14, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement after attending the opening of the United States Embassy in Israel, which now has officially been moved from Tel Aviv to the capital city of Jerusalem. During the Congressional Delegation visit to Israel, Congressman Zeldin attended several other meetings and events, including a private meeting Monday morning for over an hour with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. 14 Members of Congress from the United States Senate and House of Representatives participated in the Congressional Delegation visit to Israel, along with a Presidential Delegation led by Deputy Secretary of State John Sullivan, Secretary of the Treasury Steven Mnuchin, White House Senior Adviser Jared Kushner and First Daughter, White House Senior Advisor, Ivanka Trump. “I was honored to be part of the United States delegation in Israel's capital today for the move of the United States Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, which was long overdue,” said Congressman Zeldin. “I'm grateful of President Trump's leadership in not only following through with his own campaign promise and the campaign promises of Presidents of the past, but most importantly this decision was just the right thing to do. Jerusalem is Israel's capital and this is where our embassy should be located. The support, pride and warm welcome from Israelis has been such a remarkable memory I will never want to forget. This is a historic day not only for the life of a nation but also for an alliance between nations that is second to none.”
05.09.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with members of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), including Peter Eckstein (on right) of Smithtown, to discuss immigration, funding for the National Science Foundation and upgrading our nation’s aging research facilities.
05.09.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with the Urban League of Long Island, including Bonnie Cannon of Southampton (far left), President and CEO Theresa E. Sanders (center right) and Project Director Retha Fernandez (far right), to discuss policies that combat poverty and drive economic recovery for African Americans, urban communities and all low income citizens on Long Island and across the country.
05.09.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement on the release of three American prisoners of North Korea: “I applaud the diplomatic leadership of newly-confirmed Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. The release of these 3 American prisoners by North Korea is another important milestone achieved on the way to possible denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula and regional stability. Rooted in skepticism and continuing our maximum pressure strategy, the future looks brighter than ever before.”
05.08.2018	Watch Rep. Zeldin’s floor remarks here. WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin’s (R, NY-1) House Joint Resolution 132, the House companion to Senate Joint Resolution 57, which passed the Senate on April 18, passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 234-175. This measure, which now heads to President Trump’s desk for his signature into law, utilizes the Congressional Review Act to repeal ill-founded guidance issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) relating to the indirect auto lending market. Indirect auto loans, as opposed to direct auto loans offered by banks or financial institutions, are loans offered to automobile buyers in the dealership where they are purchasing the vehicle. In an attempt to shut down the indirect auto lending market, the CFPB issued flawed guidance based on questionable “disparate impact” statistics, falsely accusing automobile dealerships and the financial institutions they work with of unproven discrimination. The CFPB, through its own admission, noted a 20% error rate in its own data, and an independent audit of the data used to justify this ruling showed an error rate as high as 41%. “By cutting off the ability of auto lenders to provide discounted auto loans to their customers, the CFPB harms so many low- and lower middle-income borrowers who are seeking auto loans, the same people they are claiming to protect,” said Congressman Lee Zeldin. “Those with low or poor credit find themselves unable to obtain an auto loan to buy a vehicle that would allow them to get to their job, drop their children off at school, and improve the poor credit that disqualifies them from an auto loan in the first place. Local auto dealerships work to provide the appropriate loans that fit their customer’s needs. However, the CFPB in tying the hands of local auto dealers, is hindering their ability to tailor these essential financial products. In a typical government knows best approach, the CFPB is trying to take control of the auto lending market and in doing so their flawed one-size-fits-all proclamation hurts, not helps, consumers.” “H.J.Res. 132 continues the bipartisan effort that began years ago to preserve the ability of local dealerships to offer discounted auto loans to their customers, and we thank Rep. Zeldin for his leadership on this issue,” said National Automobile Dealers Association President and CEO Peter Welch. “America’s franchised auto dealers strongly believe that every customer deserves to be treated fairly, and that there is no room for discrimination of any kind in auto retailing – period. This is a narrowly tailored resolution that in no way modifies or affects the enforcement of any fair credit laws or regulations. But it does take the important step of ensuring that consumer discounts in auto lending are safeguarded for every consumer.”“It’s critical that we preserve consumer discounts in auto financing, and we are grateful for Rep. Zeldin’s efforts to ensure that auto loans remain affordable for all consumers,” said Robert Vancavage, President of the New York State Automobile Dealers Association. The Congressional Review Act, enacted in 1996, gives Congress the power to strike down a regulation issued by a federal agency through the passage of a joint resolution. Once a regulation is repealed through passage of a CRA resolution into law, federal agencies are barred from issuing a similar regulation in the future unless expressly authorized to do so by Congress.
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with Stony Brook University President Samuel L. Stanley Jr., MD, in the U.S. Capitol. During the meeting, they discussed elements of the PROSPER Act, as well as Rep. Zeldin’s support for federal funding for research at Stony Brook University and Brookhaven National Laboratory.
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) just issued the following statement after President Trump announced the United States will withdraw from the Iran Nuclear Deal: “The Iran Nuclear Deal is fatally flawed for what's in it and fatally flawed for what's not in it. The sunset provision and verification regime are just two of the very important elements that were not properly negotiated and agreed to. Since the JCPOA was entered into, Iranian aggression in the Middle East, including Iraq, Syria, and elsewhere, has only increased, and their illegal, nefarious, terrorist activities have only gotten worse, since all of the leverage that brought the Iranians to the table was negotiated away under the JCPOA. “President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the deal is the right decision for America’s best interests. The Iran Nuclear ‘Deal’ propped up the wrong regime, providing Iran, the world’s largest state sponsor of terror, with a jackpot of up to $150 billion in sanctions relief, without even asking for a signature. “The fate of this deal has truly been in Iran’s hands, but instead of lifting the sunset provision and strengthening the verification regime they continued their nefarious and illegal activities, violating not only the spirit, but the letter of the deal several times. A better deal was necessary and obtainable, and even no deal would have been better than the JCPOA.”
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON - Representatives Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) and Peter King (R, NY-2) sent a letter to the Director of the Executive Office for Immigration Review James McHenry, requesting he open on Long Island one of the 75 new immigration courts to reduce case backlog and address gang violence. Both Suffolk and Nassau Counties rank in the top ten counties for the greatest number of pending cases before the Immigration Court. A PDF of the signed letter is available here. Full text of the letter is as follows: Director James McHenry Executive Office for Immigration Review U.S. Department of Justice 5107 Leesburg Pike, Suite 2600 Falls Church, Virginia 22041 Dear Director McHenry, On April 12, 2018, the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) presented the Fiscal Year (FY) 2019 President’s budget request. The testimony included a commitment to open 75 new immigration courtrooms in FY 2018 to reduce the backlog of pending immigration cases. As the Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) identifies locations for new immigration courts, I respectfully request you place at least one of these new locations on Long Island. According to the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse (TRAC), Suffolk and Nassau County rank in the top 10 among all counties in the nation for pending cases before the Immigration Court, with 23,178 cases as of December 31, 2017. Furthermore, Suffolk and Nassau County have absorbed a significant number of Unaccompanied Alien Children (UAC) with 1,219 being relocated in Nassau County and 1,472 going to sponsors in Suffolk County in 2017. Pending cases contribute to associated gang violence on Long Island as gang members target youth like UAC’s. While Serving as Suffolk County’s Police Commissioner, now Suffolk County District Attorney Timothy D. Sini stated in his testimony to the Committee on Homeland Security, “of a sampling of 143 active gang members, 89 entered the United States illegally and currently do not have legal status (39 of whom are ‘UACs’), 48 are of unknown immigration status, and 17 have legal status (temporary or otherwise).” An adequate expansion of EOIR resources to Long Island would assist local law enforcement’s relationship with ICE to implement enacted immigration laws. The backlog in immigration courts is a result of years of policy failures under prior administrations. Effective immigration judge teams are necessary to carry out the U.S. Department of Justice’s (DOJ) statutory responsibility to prosecute administrative immigration cases. Suffolk and Nassau County could efficiently use these resources to address the backlog as well as prioritize incoming cases related to gang violence. Thank you for your attention to this matter.
05.07.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY- Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after several women came forward with sexual assault claims against New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman: "As Eric Schneiderman would say, kudos to "the brave women and men who spoke up about the sexual harassment they had endured at the hands of powerful men." I don't see how Schneiderman survives this, nor should he. Aside from being one of the most political, partisan State AG's in our nation's history, he is exactly what he claims to be fighting against. An Attorney General of all people should know that he can't consent on behalf of the woman he is assaulting. He may be going to sleep tonight as New York's Attorney General, but he should be waking up tomorrow morning as a man with a resignation announcement and apology as the least of his worries."
05.07.2018	April was an important month on many fronts. My Adult Day Health Care bill was passed and signed into law for our disabled veterans, my request for an emergency dredge of the Moriches Inlet was granted by the Army Corps, and my FAA reauthorization amendment was passed by the House of Representatives to reassess the flawed North Shore Helicopter Route. On the world stage, we’ve seen great progress on the Korean Peninsula with the prospect of peace and denuclearization on the horizon for the first time in decades. On the national level, I secured passage of my legislation to safeguard capital for everyday Americans and protect consumers, and for Long Island, the month of April has been hallmarked by numerous victories for the East End. The House of Representatives passed my amendment to require the Federal Aviation Administration to reassess the North Shore Helicopter Route and address the noise impact on affected communities, improve altitude enforcement, and consider alternative routes, including an all water route over the Atlantic Ocean. Summer after summer, residents have had their quality of life severely impacted with helicopters hovering over their quiet communities. However, year after year, the FAA and Department of Transportation, which have sole jurisdiction over these aircraft routes, have ignored the very residents most impacted. The North Shore Helicopter Route was created in 2008, before I came to Congress. In 2016, when the North Shore Helicopter Route was extended, it was done so without the public comment period and public hearings required by law. This is entirely unacceptable. The passage of my amendment requiring the FAA to take action, means that those on the East End are finally being heard. Those who call the East End home understand that it is so much more than a summer destination, it is who we are and our way of life. The hundreds of miles of coastline that comprise our shores have been forever ingrained in the culture and livelihoods of Long Islanders. Preserving our communities’ natural resources has always been a critical component of protecting this way of life, which is why I was immediately outspoken against offshore drilling off Long Island’s coast. There is no evidence of these resources even being located off of our coast and just an exploratory phase of offshore drilling would be detrimental. The seismic testing would affect fish and marine life populations and is a major concern for our environmentalists, fishermen, oyster growers, and other businesses that are part of our historic and growing seafood economy. The Department of Interior and Secretary Zinke heard it from me, but they needed to hear the negative consequences this proposal would have on those it would most impact. For these Long Islanders, I secured a public meeting on Long Island with the Department of Interior so everyday Long Islanders would have the opportunity to make their voice heard directly. While the plan has not been finalized, I am hopeful that having heard directly from Long Islanders, the Department of Interior will take Long Island off the table. At the tip of our beautiful island sits the Montauk Point Lighthouse, which has become an iconic landmark and monument to Long Island’s great history. As the first lighthouse built within the State of the New York, Montauk Lighthouse has stood for generations. However, centuries of life have taken a toll. Just this month, a $24 million state-federal partnership, of which the federal government provided over 60% of the funding, to protect the Montauk Point Lighthouse, was announced. The plan, which fortifies the nearby shoreline, aims to protect the lighthouse from continued erosion and protect the structure for generations to come. These are just a few of the great victories that were secured for the East End in recent weeks. Additionally, the VetsSuccess on Campus Program recently expanded to Suffolk County Community College, delivering economic opportunities for our nation’s veterans at SCCC campuses across NY-1. We secured another increase in funding for the Long Island Sound Program and full funding for the National Estuary Program. We’ve saved the Land and Water Conservation Fund, secured much needed funding to combat the heroin and opioid abuse epidemic, and so much more. I am proud to represent the vibrant and iconic communities that comprise Long Island’s East End, and cutting through the noise of Washington, D.C., I have and will continue to fight to ensure our important local priorities are secured.
05.04.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin’s (R, NY-1) House Joint Resolution 132, the House companion to Senate Joint Resolution 57, which passed the Senate on April 18, has been scheduled for a vote by the House next week. This measure utilizes the Congressional Review Act to repeal ill-founded guidance issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) relating to the indirect auto lending market. Indirect auto loans, as opposed to direct auto loans offered by banks or financial institutions, are loans offered to automobile buyers in the dealership where they are purchasing the vehicle. In an attempt to shut down the indirect auto lending market, the CFPB issued flawed guidance based on questionable “disparate impact” statistics, falsely accusing automobile dealerships and the financial institutions they work with of unproven discrimination. The CFPB, through its own admission, noted a 20% error rate in its own data, and an independent audit of the data used to justify this ruling showed an error rate as high as 41%. “By cutting off the ability of auto lenders to provide discounted auto loans to their customers, the CFPB harms so many low- and lower middle-income borrowers who are seeking auto loans, the same people they are claiming to protect,” said Congressman Lee Zeldin. “Those with low or poor credit find themselves unable to obtain an auto loan to buy a vehicle that would allow them to get to their job, drop their children off at school, and improve the poor credit that disqualifies them from an auto loan in the first place. Local auto dealerships work to provide the appropriate loans that fit their customer’s needs. However, the CFPB in tying the hands of local auto dealers, is hindering their ability to tailor these essential financial products. In a typical government knows best approach, the CFPB is trying to take control of the auto lending market and in doing so their flawed one-size-fits-all proclamation hurts, not helps, consumers.” “H.J.Res. 132 continues the bipartisan effort that began years ago to preserve the ability of local dealerships to offer discounted auto loans to their customers, and we thank Rep. Zeldin for his leadership on this issue,” said National Automobile Dealers Association President and CEO Peter Welch. “America’s franchised auto dealers strongly believe that every customer deserves to be treated fairly, and that there is no room for discrimination of any kind in auto retailing – period. This is a narrowly tailored resolution that in no way modifies or affects the enforcement of any fair credit laws or regulations. But it does take the important step of ensuring that consumer discounts in auto lending are safeguarded for every consumer.”“It’s critical that we preserve consumer discounts in auto financing, and we are grateful for Rep. Zeldin’s efforts to ensure that auto loans remain affordable for all consumers,” said Robert Vancavage, President of the New York State Automobile Dealers Association. The Congressional Review Act, enacted in 1996, gives Congress the power to strike down a regulation issued by a federal agency through the passage of a joint resolution. Once a regulation is repealed through passage of a CRA resolution into law, federal agencies are barred from issuing a similar regulation in the future unless expressly authorized to do so by Congress.
05.03.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Council (ASMFC) vote to adopt last year’s inequitable black sea bass quota for this upcoming season, which cuts New York’s black sea bass allocation compared to neighboring states even though the black sea bass stock has rebounded and is currently 240% above target biomass: “This ‘deal’ is no victory for New York fishermen and is worse than status quo with other states receiving an increase. New York continues to roll over for the ASMFC while New York fishermen get screwed. I will not pull the wool over the eyes of hardworking New York fishermen and claim victory. Any deal on behalf of New York fishermen needs to place them on a level playing field with New Jersey and Connecticut, and this deal, cementing a quota cut for local fishermen in comparison to other states, is not equitable. I will not accept anything less than what New York fishermen, both recreational and commercial, deserve – parity.” Last month, Rep. Zeldin was joined by dozens of local fishermen, small business owners, and other stakeholders to call on the State of New York to take an aggressive stand against the ASMFC’s black sea bass allocation, cutting New York’s quota while increasing that of neighboring states. The discrepancy between the quotas for New York, New Jersey, and other states are laid out by ASMFC below:
05.01.2018	HAUPPAUGE, N.Y. - On Monday, April 30, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) surprised local patrons at Shoprite in Hauppauge as part of “Undercover Congressman”, during which Rep. Zeldin works local jobs to highlight the diverse occupations throughout the NY-1 community. During his visit, Rep. Zeldin worked at the deli counter, produce section and at checkout
04.30.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - On Friday, April 27, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted his fourth annual art reception at Artspace in Patchogue, during which he announced Isabella Kosiba of Smithtown Christian School as the 2018 winner of the Congressional Art Competition for the First Congressional District: “The Artistic Discovery Contest”. In attendance at the event were the twelve finalists, their art teachers and families, Artspace curator Tracy Todd Hunter, and local artists who served as judges. The House of Representatives hosts a nationwide high school art competition every spring to raise awareness of the importance of art programs in our schools, and to recognize and celebrate the creativity and diversity of students. The winner’s artwork is displayed in the United States Capitol for one year. The third place winner, Sutton Reinboth-Lynch of East Hampton High School, and second place winner, Raphaela Araugo of Eastport South Manor High School, will have their artwork displayed in Congressman Zeldin’s Patchogue office. The twelve finalists include: Haley Akl, Hilltop Homeschool Raphaela Araugo, Eastport South Manor High School Aiden Carlson, Eastport South Manor High School Ryan Carrick, Riverhead High School Josuel Jerez Puello, Riverhead High School Isabella Kosiba, Smithtown Christian School Luciano Pagliarulo, Smithtown Christian School Sutton Reinboth-Lynch, East Hampton High School Emma Rocchetta, Eastport South Manor High School Ninon Savoye, Center Moriches High School Viviana Schmitt, Longwood High School Isabela Tarbet, East Hampton High School The winner and a guest will receive a flight to Washington, D.C. to see their artwork on display in the U.S. Capitol courtesy of Southwest Airlines. Congressman Zeldin said, “Congratulations to Isabella Kosiba, the artist of ‘Mirror, Mirror...’ and the first place winner of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition for the First Congressional District. A special thanks and congratulations to all of the high school students who participated in this year’s art competition. Each and every piece submitted was enlightening and inspiring, and there is no shortage of talent, creativity and enthusiasm among this year’s participants. It was an honor to host a reception to recognize these artists, and I look forward to welcoming Isabella and her family to Washington, D.C. to view her artwork in the United States Capitol.”
04.30.2018	CALVERTON, NY - On Saturday, April 28, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined the Long Island Farm Bureau for their annual “Coffee with the Congressman”, during which they discussed the issues facing local East End farmers, including the Farm bill, immigration and food safety.
04.27.2018	Rep. Zeldin fights for his bipartisan amendment during House floor debate. Watch here. WASHINGTON - Earlier this week, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) introduced an amendment, cosponsored by Reps. Grace Meng (D, NY-6) and Thomas Suozzi (D, NY-3), to require the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to reassess the North Shore Helicopter Route (NSR) to address the noise impact on affected communities, improve altitude enforcement, and consider alternative routes, including an all water route over the Atlantic Ocean. The FAA is required to hold a public hearing on the NSR in impacted communities and open a public comment period, both of which the FAA has refused to do in recent years as the NSR has been renewed by the FAA under emergency authority without consulting the public or local lawmakers. Yesterday, the House passed Rep. Zeldin’s amendment in order for it to be considered as a part of the FAA Reauthorization Act (H.R. 4), which the House passed today by a vote of 393 to 13. Congressman Zeldin said, “Summer after summer, North Fork residents’ quality of life has suffered due to the persistent issue of helicopter noise on the East End. The FAA and Department of Transportation have sole jurisdiction over the aircraft routes that have impacted these communities, but from the route’s planning to its continued use, they have continued to flat out ignore the residents directly affected. Congress must hold their feet to the fire, and with the passage of this amendment to require the FAA to assess an all water route and alternatives to mitigate the impact on residents, those who call the North Shore home are finally being heard. I would like to thank all of my colleagues who supported this bipartisan amendment, including my two Democratic cosponsors, Reps. Meng and Suozzi.” Congresswoman Meng said, “We must do everything we can to mitigate excessive aircraft noise that continues to take a toll on the quality of life in my district and other impacted communities. I’m pleased to partner with Congressman Zeldin on this amendment to combat helicopter noise, and I applaud its passage in the House.” Congressman Suozzi said, “As Co-chair of the Quiet Skies Caucus, I am deeply concerned with the issue of Helicopter noise pollution. Helicopter noise is an environmental hazard that negatively impacts women, men and children’s health and well-being. Thousands of my constituents in Northeast Queens are being bombarded by helicopter noise daily. That’s why I have supported both local legislation and federal action on this critical issue. This amendment also represents common sense, bipartisan solutions to protect our constituents and its passage today is a positive step forward.” Southold Supervisor Scott Russell said, “The ever increasing number of helicopters over Southold has devastated the quality of life for our residents. Southold has become a doormat to the helicopter operators as they had to and from the Hamptons. Rep. Zeldin's amendment is a common sense approach that will provide immediate relief to our community. I urge the FAA to follow the Congressman's lead and help him restore the quality of life of the people of Southold.” Riverhead Supervisor Laura Jens-Smith said, “Helicopter flyovers during the busy summer months have been exponentially increased on the North Fork of Long Island over the past several years. While the flight pattern for these flights is to circumvent the land to reach their destinations out on the Eastern End of Long Island; in practice this is not what takes place. In addition these helicopters tend to fly the same routes when traversing overland resulting in helicopters passing overhead every 5 to 10 minutes. The noise level created by these helicopters passing is so loud and disturbing that it can drown out TV sound at a moderate volume if you are inside. And outside is even worse requiring you to stop your conversations until after the helicopters pass overhead.”
04.27.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) this morning posted the following tweet on the latest developments regarding the prospects for peace and denuclearization on the Korean Peninsula: “Peace on the Korean Peninsula? Denuclearization? Release of hostages? Yesterday looked brighter than the day before. Today looks brighter than yesterday. Keep up max pressure strategy & let's get this done! Skeptical? Yes, but the future here is looking better than ever before.” View the tweet here.
04.26.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after the United States Senate confirmed former CIA Director Mike Pompeo to be the next Secretary of State: “I cannot think of anyone in our country who is better suited for this critical position at this important moment in our nation’s history. Secretary Pompeo was first in his class at West Point, a great colleague in the House of Representatives, and an exceptional CIA Director. He’s intelligent, competent, qualified, talented, and has the potential to be one of the best Secretaries of State in our nation’s history.” Immediately following the Senate vote, Rep. Zeldin tweeted the following: “‘Secretary of State Mike Pompeo’. I love the sound of that! Most importantly though, he's intelligent, competent, qualified, and talented. Mike Pompeo is not only our new Secretary of State, but a leader capable of being one of our best ever.” View the tweet here. “Ridiculous though that so many Senate Dems voted NO. Hillary Clinton received 94 votes. John Kerry received 94 as well. Mike Pompeo received 57, bc of this lighting our hair on fire ‘resistance’ to oppose everything & anything. That's exactly why they are in the minority.” View the tweet here.
04.25.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the bipartisan Congressional Estuary Caucus, issued the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) awarded the Town of Southampton two Brownfields assessment grants focused on sites in Riverside, located within the watershed of the Peconic Estuary: “These federal grants are great news for the continued revitalization of Riverside. Helping local communities safely clean up and reuse vacant and abandoned properties, these Brownfields assessment grants will assist Riverside residents transforming blighted properties into safe, usable and vibrant activity centers.” Last year, Rep. Zeldin voted for full funding of the EPA’s Brownfields Program at $90 million. Through this program, the EPA selected the Town of Southampton to receive two Brownfields assessment grants focusing on sites in Riverside, located within the watershed of the Peconic Estuary. The town will receive a $174,500 community-wide petroleum grant and a $90,500 community-wide hazardous substances grant. The Town of Southampton plans to redevelop the blighted properties to alleviate potential health and safety concerns and implement green building designs in an economically viable plan. Grant funds of both types will also be used for community engagement activities and to select and prioritize sites. The Brownfields Program targets communities that are economically disadvantaged and provides funding and assistance to transform blighted sites into assets that can generate jobs and spur economic growth. A study analyzing 48 Brownfields sites found that an estimated $29 million to $97 million in additional tax revenue was generated for local governments in a single year after cleanup. This is two to seven times more than the $12.4 million EPA contributed to the cleanup of these Brownfields sites. Furthermore, another study found that property values of homes located near Brownfields sites that are cleaned up increased between 5 and 15 percent after cleanup.
04.25.2018	WASHINGTON - This week, Representative Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) introduced an amendment with Representative Grace Meng (D, NY-6) to require the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to reassess the North Shore Helicopter Route (NSR) to address the noise impact on affected communities, improve altitude enforcement, and assess alternative routes, including an all water route over the Atlantic Ocean. The FAA is required to hold a public hearing on the NSR in impacted communities and open a public comment period, both of which the FAA has refused to do in recent years as the NSR has been renewed by the FAA under emergency authority without consulting the public or local lawmakers. Reps. Zeldin and Meng secured a vote on this amendment to take place this week during the House’s consideration of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (H.R. 4). Congressman Zeldin said, “Summer after summer, North Fork residents’ quality of life has suffered due to the persistent issue of helicopter noise on the East End. The FAA and Department of Transportation have sole jurisdiction over the aircraft routes that have impacted these communities, but from the route’s planning to its continued use, they have continued to flat out ignore the residents directly affected. Congress must hold their feet to the fire, and Representative Meng and I are urging all of our colleagues to support this amendment to require the FAA to assess an all water route and alternatives to mitigate the impact on the residents who call the North Shore home.” Congresswoman Meng said, “We must do everything we can to mitigate excessive aircraft noise that continues to take a toll on the quality of life in my district and other impacted communities. I’m pleased to partner with Congressman Zeldin on this provision to combat helicopter noise, and I look forward to it coming up for a vote.” Southold Supervisor Scott Russell said, “The ever increasing number of helicopters over Southold has devastated the quality of life for our residents. Southold has become a doormat to the helicopter operators as they had to and from the Hamptons. Rep. Zeldin's amendment is a common sense approach that will provide immediate relief to our community. I urge the FAA to follow the Congressman's lead and help him restore the quality of life of the people of Southold.” Riverhead Supervisor Laura Jens-Smith said, “Helicopter flyovers during the busy summer months have been exponentially increased on the North Fork of Long Island over the past several years. While the flight pattern for these flights is to circumvent the land to reach their destinations out on the Eastern End of Long Island; in practice this is not what takes place. In addition these helicopters tend to fly the same routes when traversing overland resulting in helicopters passing overhead every 5 to 10 minutes. The noise level created by these helicopters passing is so loud and disturbing that it can drown out TV sound at a moderate volume if you are inside. And outside is even worse requiring you to stop your conversations until after the helicopters pass overhead.”
04.24.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with the Transport Workers Union in his Washington, D.C. office, to discuss key legislative issues including efforts to ensure worker safety in the transportation industry, protecting American jobs and bolstering our nation’s infrastructure.
04.24.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) tweeted the following with regards to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), commonly known as the Iran Nuclear Deal: “Iran Deal: ‘Fix it or nix it?’. Wrong to think it needs to be Congress' call, our allies', or @POTUS'. Iran either fixes it or nixes it. 2 choices. Iran either lifts the sunset provision, strengthens verification regime & ends other nefarious, illegal activities...or not.” View the tweet here. Last week, during a House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing, Rep. Zeldin questioned Acting Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern Affairs David Satterfield regarding Iran’s violations of the letter of the JCPOA, during which the Acting Assistant Secretary falsely insisted Iran has not violated the letter of the Iran Nuclear Deal.
04.20.2018	HAMPTON BAYS, N.Y. - On Friday, April 20, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted a Coffee with Your Congressman Town Hall at The Hamlet in Hampton Bays. During the Town Hall, constituents had the opportunity to discuss Congressman Zeldin’s work in Congress and ask questions about topics of interest. Constituents wishing to participate in a future meeting can contact Congressman Zeldin’s office at (631) 289-1097.
04.20.2018	EAST QUOGUE, N.Y. - On Friday, April 20, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) toured the Center for Discovery, an eating disorder treatment facility in East Quogue, to learn more about the services they provide to teenagers and witness first-hand the importance of these services. From left to right is, Congressman Zeldin, Outreach Director Alex Caputo, Program Director Laura Ellick, PhD., and Resident Physician Dr. Ronald Feinstein.
04.19.2018	SMITHTOWN, N.Y. - On Thursday, April 19, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted a Pizza and Policy Town Hall at Buona Sera in Smithtown. During the Town Hall, constituents had the opportunity to have an in-depth discussion with the Congressman regarding a variety of issues including immigration, school safety and fiscal issues. Constituents wishing to participate in a future meeting can contact Congressman Zeldin’s office at (631) 289-1097.
04.17.2018	MILLER PLACE, N.Y. - On Monday, April 16, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited Miller Place High School’s 12th grade Participation in Government class as a guest speaker. During the visit, Congressman Zeldin answered questions from students in the class.
04.17.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY- Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced that the Commander of the U.S. Army Corps New York District, Colonel Thomas Asbery, just received the needed Emergency Declaration from Army Corps of Engineers North Atlantic Division Brigadier General William Graham, granting Rep. Zeldin’s request to perform emergency dredging of the Moriches Inlet. With this emergency declaration, the process of coordinating funding and permits will be initiated and expedited so dredging vessels can begin working on the Moriches Inlet as soon as possible. The emergency declaration allows for expedited coordination with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service regarding the listed endangered bird species, Piping Plover; the National Marine Fisheries Service regarding relevant fisheries species, the United States Coast Guard – Sector Long Island; the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, and the State of New York Department of State. The expedited coordination is needed to comply with several federal and state laws as well as help identify suitable placement location for the 300,000 cubic yards of sand that is clogging the inlet. Several strong and unprecedented recent winter storms resulted in significant shoaling of Moriches Inlet. This inlet provides critical access to the Atlantic Ocean and has allowed some boats to bypass the shoaling problems of Moriches Bay. The threat of a closure of the inlet would deal a major blow to marine related businesses across eastern Suffolk County and present a danger to boaters’ safety. Last month, Rep. Zeldin was joined by local electeds, small businesses, boaters and fishermen in calling for an emergency dredge of Moriches Inlet during which Congressman Zeldin joined local fisherman to survey the inlet’s dangerous navigation conditions first-hand. “The approval of this request and the continued efforts to bring about an emergency dredge of Moriches Inlet is great news for our coastal economy, commercial and recreational fisherman and all those whose livelihoods rely on the vitality of our communities’ waterways,” said Congressman Lee Zeldin. “With fishing season fast approaching, I look forward to continuing to work with the Army Corps of Engineers and all those affected by the deteriorated state of the Moriches Inlet to complete this emergency dredge as soon as possible.” "We appreciate the team effort to have quickly received the needed Emergency Declaration from our higher Headquarters to address this issue," said Col. Thomas Asbery, commander, New York District. "I'd like to thank Rep. Zeldin and our partners at the local, state, and federal level for their support in helping to address this challenge. We look forward to performing the work to restore Moriches Inlet to its federally authorized depth in the near future, which will make it safe and usable for the residents of Long Island." “I just want to thank Congressman Zeldin for his efforts in coordinating the emergency dredging project in Moriches Inlet, and Bay,” said Joe Tangel, Owner of KING COD Fishing in Center Moriches. “It is a great relief for boater and fishermen in the area to know that something will finally be done to ensure our safety and economic viability.”
04.16.2018	Watch Rep. Zeldin’s remarks here. Watch entire Special Order here. WASHINGTON - Tonight, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) gave an 18.5 minute House floor speech detailing the case for why Attorney General Jeff Sessions should appoint a second Special Counsel. Rep. Zeldin led a Special Order on the Floor of the House of Representatives calling for the appointment of a second Special Counsel in light of extensive evidence of misconduct at the highest levels of the Department of Justice and Federal Bureau of Investigation with regards to FISA Abuse, how and why the Hillary Clinton email probe ended, and how and why the Donald Trump-Russia probe began. During the Special Order, Congressman Zeldin was joined by Representatives Matt Gaetz, Claudia Tenney, Louie Gohmert, Dave Brat, Jim Jordan, and Scott Perry. Earlier this year, on February 28th, Rep. Zeldin led a 13 Member letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions urging the appointment of a second Special Counsel. Since this letter was sent, additional members of House Leadership, Committee Chairmen, and other Members of Congress have also called for a second Special Counsel to be appointed. Following the speech, Congressman Zeldin tweeted his remarks here and the full Special Order here.
04.16.2018	Op-ed by Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) For all who live on Long Island, especially everyone who grew up here, we understand well that our waterways are more than just a summer destination; our waterways are a critical component of our way of life. As the longest and largest island in the contiguous United States, our more than 600 miles of coastline have been forever ingrained in our culture and economy. The economic value supported by our waterways are how many Long Islanders support their families and put food on the table, and as the weather warms and we quickly approach the summer months, we are reminded of the important role protecting and preserving our area’s natural resources have on the livelihoods of Long Islanders all around us. The Long Island Sound alone supports tens of billions of dollars in economic value per year. Restoring this critical waterway, which has suffered from pollution and overdevelopment for too many years, is so important to improving our area’s water quality and restoring our natural habitats. As co-chair of the Long Island Sound Caucus, I was proud to recently announce $2.04 million in Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) grants for local governments and community groups to improve the health and vitality of the Long Island Sound. These grants will treat 439,000 gallons of water runoff, reducing more than 15,600 pounds of nitrogen and collecting 2,800 pounds of floating trash. These grants and other programs like the Long Island Sound Program and National Estuary Program play a vital role in improving water quality and restoring area wetlands. The Long Island Sound Program restores local beaches and protects wildlife and prioritizes urgent and challenging issues that threaten the ecological and economic well-being of coastal areas, including nitrogen, harmful algae blooms, and flooding or wetland loss. The National Estuary Program is another important EPA wetlands protection program that was established by the Clean Water Act. This program provides important local grants for 28 estuaries in the United States that the EPA has recognized to be of “national significance” due to their threatened status from pollution and overdevelopment. On Long Island’s East End, there are two estuaries: the Long Island Sound and Peconic. The National Estuary Program is the primary funding source for the Peconic Estuary Program. Both the Long Island Sound Program and National Estuary Program must be protected, and, last year, I secured full funding for the National Estuary Program at $26.5 million and doubled funding for the Long Island Sound program to $8 million. In addition to safeguarding our community’s waterways, we must support those who rely on these waterways to make a living. The New York Sea Grant program, supported by federal grants, works with local shellfish farmers, fishermen, watermen, and other businesses in the coastal economy to grow and sustain their business models, connecting them to local resources to share best practices, and helping them navigate a complex patchwork of state and federal coastal zone management regulations through technical assistance. For Long Island’s fishermen, we must reform federal regulation, such as the Magnuson-Stevens Act, which relies on flawed data and fails to take into the resurgence of fish populations. Year after year, New York anglers have been put at a great disadvantage, suffering at the hands of lower quotas and allocations than neighboring states. That means when two boats are fishing next to each other, one is allowed to catch up to double the amount of the other because it is landing the fish in New Jersey or Connecticut instead of New York. This discrepancy is ridiculous and inequitable, and we must secure parity for local fishermen, small business owners and those who rely on the tourism this industry draws into our region. For me, growing up on Long Island, enjoying the beauty of Wertheim National Wildlife Refuge, Smith Point County Park and so many other natural treasures in our area, I am constantly reminded that in order to provide each generation with that same privilege, we must be good stewards of Long Island’s environment. In order to safeguard our way of life, we must protect the industries on which Long Island was founded and the waterways on which these industries rely. As the weather changes and the weekenders flock east, we must remember that for us, Long Island and it’s precious natural resources, are so much more than a place to visit, it’s what makes Long Island our home.
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) voted in favor of H.J. Res. 2, which would amend the Constitution to require Congress not spend more than it receives in revenues within each fiscal year. It also requires a true majority of each chamber to pass tax increases and a three-fifths majority to raise the debt limit. H.J. Res. 2 is a constitutional amendment and, therefore, requires a two-thirds majority of both the House and Senate to be enacted. Consequently, this constitutional amendment failed by a vote of 233 to 184. “Year after year, Congress kicks the can of our looming debt crisis down the road, swiping trillions of dollars on the country credit card with no way of paying for it. Today, after years of failing to reign in Washington’s out of control spending, our national debt stands at over $21 trillion, which is over $64,000 for every American. It is not us, but our children who are the biggest losers, saddled with more and more crushing levels of debt. However, the buck stops here, and I’m not willing to stand idly by as Congress ransoms away our children’s future. Unfortunately, with the failure of this constitutional amendment, it is clear not all of my colleagues feel the same. Our government should provide for our national defense, it should care for our senior citizens and those who struggle with opioid addiction, but it should also provide for the fiscal stability of our nation’s future.”
04.12.2018	Watch Rep. Zeldin’s remarks here. WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) delivered the following remarks in honor of the Patriot Guard Riders on Long Island and across the United States: “Mr. Speaker, today I rise to honor and thank the Patriot Guard Riders who live on Long Island and all across our country. The Patriot Guard Riders, a non-profit organization, consists of a diverse group of motorcycle enthusiasts and patriots who share a deep appreciation and commitment to honoring our U.S. Service Members, veterans and their families. Rooted in their unwavering patriotism and respect for our nation’s military men and women, the Patriot Guard Riders go above and beyond daily to ensure everyone from our nation’s veterans to our community’s first responders and their families receive the appreciation they deserve. When a veteran arrives at Calverton National Cemetery for burial in my district, the Patriot Guard Riders are there. On Veterans Day, Memorial Day, July 4th and 9/11, the Patriot Guard Riders are there. When our community’s veterans return from their Honor Flights in Washington, D.C. to Long Island Airport, the Patriot Guard Riders are there. No matter rain or shine or snow, scorching hot or freezing cold, the Patriot Guard Riders are there. Last month, our nation lost 7 airmen in the line of duty, four of whom were from the 106th Rescue Wing on Long Island. As their families gathered at Gabreski Air National Guard base to receive their sons, brothers, husbands, and our heroes, several dozen Patriot Guard Riders gathered to escort these fallen airmen from the base. It is in these moments, the most difficult moments in the lives of the families of these fallen airmen, when the Patriot Guard Riders, as detailed in their motto, stand for those who stood for us. The family members of these fallen service members may not know the names of these Patriot Guard Riders, but recognition is not what drives them. As these fallen airmen were escorted from the base, a sea of American flags rose up to flank their caskets. As their families prepared to say their final goodbyes, an unquestionable, unwavering sense of patriotism swelled, carried on the backs of the Patriot Guard Riders bikes. They have especially made our nation’s heroes their priority when others have neglected to show their appreciation. Time after time, when a veteran of World War II, Korea, or Vietnam has been buried without family or friends, you could count on the Patriot Guard Riders to have been there. We need more Pete Jepsons in our world, who is the Senior Ride Captain for all of Suffolk County. There’s Mary-Ann, LW, Wayne, John, Eugene, Susan, Nancy, Marc, Dennis, Richard, Warren, Karen, and so many others who would drop everything at a moment’s notice to stand for those who stood for us. The Patriot Guard Riders are made up of hundreds of thousands of everyday people all across America. With the inspiration that consumes us whenever we see them in action, we all should aspire to the ideals and dedication each and everyone of them embody. To our Patriot Guard Riders, thank you for your service to our great country.”
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement after his bipartisan legislation, the Stress Test Improvement Act (H.R. 4293), passed the House of Representatives this afternoon by a vote of 245 to 174: “Far too many aspects of our nation’s financial institutions are shrouded in secrecy and free from public accountability and oversight, hurting the hard working men and women who rely on them to buy their first home, start a small business and plan their retirement. Stress tests are a financial analysis performed internally by financial institutions or externally by a regulator to ensure financial institutions can withstand stressful economic conditions, in an effort to protect the everyday customers they serve. “However, the Federal Reserve is not required to inform financial institutions of the criteria on which they will be analyzed, creating regulatory uncertainty for these organizations and increased compliance costs that stymy their ability to improve fiscal soundness. Ensuring these tests are done right, with fairness and objectivity, is essential for protecting depositors and the overall financial system. This bipartisan legislation I introduced, co-sponsored by Democratic Congressman David Scott of Georgia, bridges the gap between the Federal Reserve and financial institutions, lifting the shroud of secrecy, conducting stress tests based on real world information and safeguarding affordable and reliable access to capital for the American people.” House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy said, “Dodd-Frank is based on the assumption that uniform Washington rules can be imposed on a diverse nation. This failed idea has harmed a countless number of community banks, which in turn hits all the families and small businesses who depend on them for financing. Today, with the leadership of Representative Lee Zeldin, the House is continuing to fight to provide certainty for financial institutions and the people who rely on them. Sound financial institutions are a cornerstone to growing communities, and this bill will ensure that regulation is based on actual risks and tailored to ensuring the safety of consumers. I thank Lee for his hard work on this bill.” Congressman David Scott (D, GA-13) said, “I want to thank Mr. Zeldin for working with me to amend and help pass this important bill. I think every Financial Services Committee member wants to have an honest debate about how we can improve CCAR and this bill starts that conversation. We must always look at our rules and regulations and make sure they are working as intended. And this bill with my amendment included, is a first step in making small tweaks to streamline the work our regulators are doing, so that we are still adequately protected from the next financial crisis.” The Stress Test Improvement Act of 2017 improves the stress test process, by allowing bank holding companies to conduct the stress tests on an annual rather than semiannual basis. This bill also reduces the number of required supervisory scenarios - the type of stress tests mandated by federal regulators - from three to two, to include the baseline and severely adverse scenarios. Under this legislation, the Federal Reserve is also prohibited from objecting to a bank holding company’s capital plan solely on the basis of qualitative deficiencies. A stress test is a financial analysis performed internally by a financial institution or done externally by a regulator to assess if a bank can withstand stressful economic conditions. Stress tests, when done correctly, are an important way for banks and regulators to understand the ability of financial institutions to survive a contracting economy or weather a major economic storm like a recession. Ensuring that these tests are done right, with fairness and objectivity, is essential for protecting depositors and the overall financial system.
04.09.2018	BAITING HOLLOW, NY - On Sunday, April 9, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Mastic Beach Fire Department Installation at Giorgio’s in Baiting Hollow. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with Mastic Beach Fire Department Chief Carlo Grover.
04.09.2018	ROCKY POINT, NY - On Saturday, April 8, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Riverhead Volunteer Ambulance Corps Installation Dinner at Majestic Gardens in Rocky Point. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with Riverhead Volunteer Ambulance Corps Chief Rod Richardson.
04.09.2018	RIVERHEAD, NY - On Saturday, April 8, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Southold Fire Department Installation Dinner at Atlantis Aquarium in Riverhead. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with 70-year member of the Southold Fire Department Raymond Terry and his wife, Barbara, to whom he presented an American flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C.
04.09.2018	PATCHOGUE, N.Y. - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was joined by Assemblyman Dean Murray, small business owners, local fishermen and other stakeholders at Mascot Dock & Marina in Patchogue, to call for the State of New York to take an aggressive stand against an unfair decision by the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission (ASMFC) for black sea bass allocation, which would cut New York’s quota by 12% (even though the black sea bass stock has rebounded and is currently 240% above target biomass), while increasing that of neighboring states. By issuing its own set of regulations for black sea bass fishing this season and entering into non-compliance, the State of New York can take a stand against the unfair and inequitable decision of the ASMFC that will further hurt New York’s already struggling anglers. Long Island’s largest one day fishing event also took place on Sunday at St. Joseph’s College in Patchogue, bringing together fishermen and stakeholders of Long Island’s maritime economy from across the island. After so many men and women who rely on the coastal economy gathered on Sunday, it is essential that leaders at all levels of government band together to stand against unfair and inequitable regulations mandated by the ASMFC. “Going into non-compliance is never the first option, but it may be the only one in taking a stand for New York anglers who year after year continue to get screwed,” Congressman Zeldin said. “With the vast majority of Long Island fishing taking place in waters shared with New Jersey and Connecticut, such as the Atlantic Ocean and Long Island Sound, it is unfair that New York anglers are, once again, being penalized with smaller fishing quotas than neighboring states. Two boats fishing next to each other with one allowed to catch up to double the amount of the other because they are landing the fish in New Jersey instead of New York is ridiculous and inequitable.” “Tri-state parity is so important, and New York needs to take an immediate stand against the unfair black sea bass allocation and set its own fair and equitable quota and going into what is formally known as ‘non-compliance’,” concluded Zeldin. “For my constituents, who are both fishermen and small business owners trying to attract customers, cutting New York off from its fair share while allowing New Jersey’s allocation to grow, is unacceptable.” New York State Assemblyman Dean Murray said, “It's time that we join together (regardless of party affiliation) to fight back against unfair restrictions and over-regulation of Long Island's fishing industry. I'm proud to stand with U.S. Congressman Lee Zeldin and those in the fishing community to call on Governor Andrew Cuomo and others to join the fight in pushing back against what we believe is an unfair and uncalled for reduction in the Black Sea Bass limits." Captain Joe Tangel of Center Moriches, NY said, “The people of the marine district of NY will not accept or endorse any options with a cut to our sea bass regulations in 2018. If nothing can be worked out with the Atlantic States Marine Fish Commission, we demand that our state goes out of compliance, and take the case all the way to the Secretary of commerce, Wilbur Ross. The time is now for the state, it's stakeholders, and our representatives to take a stand.” Captain James Schneider of Huntington, NY said, “The hard working recreational fishing community is rallied together today in an attempt to keep NY anglers on par with its neighboring states. The Sea Bass stocks are extremely healthy, with its biomass at 240% of target. This is a valuable resource for all the citizens to utilize, just like the corn in Iowa, and oil in Alaska. Thank you Congressman Zeldin for all of your support.”
04.07.2018	PECONIC, N.Y. - On Friday, April 6, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) held Mobile Office Hours at the Peconic Community Center. During Mobile Office Hours, the Congressman met with constituents regarding a wide variety of issues, including fishing regulations, the student loan debt crisis, healthcare, and assistance with federal casework.
04.06.2018	PATCHOGUE, N.Y. - On Thursday, April 5, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) held a meeting in his Patchogue office with his Education Advisory Committee. During the meeting, educators, students, law enforcement and others discussed best practices in our local schools, the utilization of available resources, and the nature of the post-Parkland discussion amongst our area’s students.
04.04.2018	STONY BROOK, N.Y. - On Wednesday, April 4, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended Stony Brook University’s Introduction to International Relations class as a guest speaker. During the visit, Congressman Zeldin discussed his work in Congress and answered questions from students in the class.
04.04.2018	SELDEN, N.Y. - Reps. Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) and Peter King (R, NY-2) were joined by Suffolk and Nassau County Community Colleges and local veterans to announce the expansion of the VetsSuccess on Campus (VSOC) program to Suffolk and Nassau County Community Colleges. Suffolk County is home to the largest number of veterans in the State of New York, and Suffolk County Community College serves over 700 military connected students annually across three campuses. In partnership with Nassau Community College and the over 300 military connected students it serves each year, the VetsSuccess on Campus (VSOC) program, delivered through the Department of Veterans Affairs, will help veterans, servicemembers, and their qualified dependents succeed and thrive through a coordinated delivery of on-campus benefits assistance and counseling, leading to completion of their education and preparing them to enter the labor market in viable careers. During the event, Reps. Zeldin and King presented Suffolk County Community College Vice President of Student Affairs, Dr. Christopher Adams, with an American flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. to commemorate the expansion of this important program and to honor to the veterans it serves. Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) said, “Our nation’s servicemen and women put their lives on the line to protect us, and when they return home, they have earned nothing less than our unwavering support when transitioning back into civilian life. The expansion of the VetsSuccess on Campus Program means local veterans here at Suffolk and Nassau will have access to an even wider range of tools at their disposal to help them transition into their new lives after military service.” Congressman Peter King (R, NY-2) said, “The VetsSuccess on Campus (VSOC) program is a great program that provides a tremendous benefit to Long Island’s student veteran population. The expansion of this project ensures more veterans will succeed in meeting their educational and employment goals.” Suffolk County Community College Vice President of Student Affairs Dr. Christopher Adams said, “The VetsSuccess on Campus Program will go a long way towards helping veterans, servicemembers, and their qualified dependents succeed and thrive through a coordinated delivery of on campus benefits assistance and counseling leading to their education and preparing them to enter the labor market in viable careers. Suffolk County Community College has a long history of assisting student veterans and maximizing their benefits and achieving their ed goals. They deserve it and we are honored to be able to recognize their service to our country in this way.” VetsSuccess on Campus Program Counselor Christopher Holder said, “As a veteran, as a disabled veteran, I have made the transition these students are making now. I hope that my experience on both sides, as a veteran and as a Administrator, will help these veterans make theirs.” Air Force Master Sergeant Olivia McMahon (Ret.) and current Suffolk County Community College student said, “The VetsSuccess Program has enabled colleges to provide previously remote access to myself, other veterans, and their dependents with the personal connection to resources and benefits. As a single working parent and veteran, I cannot stress enough the importance of this program. It allows us to reach our educational goals and further educate our community.”
04.02.2018	On Long Island, our waterways are in many respects our way of life. A pillar of Long Island’s culture and economy is our rich fishing heritage. Due to unfair fishing quotas and allocations, however, the livelihood of our state’s anglers has suffered. The vast majority of Long Island fishing takes place in the Atlantic Ocean and Long Island Sound; waters shared with our neighboring states, New Jersey and Connecticut. Yet, New York fishermen are restricted by smaller fishing quotas than these two other states. That means when two boats are fishing next to each other, one is allowed to catch up to double the amount of the other because it is landing the fish in New Jersey or Connecticut instead of New York. This discrepancy is ridiculous and inequitable. That’s why, when it comes to fishing quotas, tri-state parity is so important. Once again, the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission (ASMFC), in rolling out New York’s black sea bass allocation for this year, cut off New York fishermen from its fair share while allowing New Jersey’s allocation to grow. At the state level, New York’s representatives to these regional bodies, like the ASMFC, must fight more aggressively to advocate for New York’s anglers who rely on fishing as a way of life, which supports so much of our local economy. Last season, in New Jersey, we watched every level of government, including Democrats and Republicans, stand up for their state’s hardworking fishermen to fight misguided quotas impacting their state. In fact, New Jersey proposed their own quota that would safeguard conservation efforts, while supporting their state’s fishing industry, but was found “out of compliance” by the ASMFC. New Jersey appealed the ASMFC’s decision all the way to the Secretary of Commerce and won. Going into non-compliance is never the first option, but it may be the only one in taking a stand for New York anglers who year after year continue to get screwed. Many of my constituents are fishermen and small business owners trying to attract customers, and this decision hurts their ability to make a living and support their families. Customers who are equidistant from Long Island and New Jersey are going to take their business to the place they can catch the most fish, and right now, that’s not Long Island. Fewer visitors attracted by our recreational fishing industry means less patrons at the seafood restaurant on the shore of Moriches Bay and fewer customers at the local bait and tackle shop. These unfair fishing quotas have a decimating ripple effect on our entire community. At the root of this inequity is the main law that governs recreational and commercial fishing in our nation, the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act. Enacted in 1976, this law has not been updated in a decade and is in desperate need of reform. Reforming the Magnuson-Stevens Act also presents the opportunity to fix New York’s issue regarding Fishery Management Councils (FMCs) and allow our anglers to receive the fair share they have long deserved. Also as part of Magnuson reform, there needs to be improvement in the data and science used to create federal fishery management plans, as well as an improved framework that makes quotas and regulations flexible to each region and species. Maintaining healthy fish stocks is incredibly important, and our fishermen understand this; however the horribly flawed data used to set allocations and quotas does not take into account the resurgence of fish populations. Without addressing this need, America’s fishermen will continue to suffer. I have long worked hard to secure victories for our local fishermen, and we cannot slow down now. In 2011, during my time in the New York State Senate, I led the successful effort to repeal the Saltwater Fishing License Fee. This Congress, I reintroduced my legislation, the Local Fishing Access Act (H.R. 1195), which will provide Long Island anglers with relief from confusing and burdensome regulations, by reforming the federal law that bans striped bass fishing in the Block Island transit zone, the federal waters between Montauk, New York, and Block Island, Rhode Island. Every level of government has a critical role to play in protect Long Island’s fishing industry and the countless hard-working Long Island families whose livelihood rely on a thriving, successful, and fair maritime business. Failure to do so is a failure to honor our island’s proud angling heritage, the fishermen of today, and the generations of fishermen to come.
03.30.2018	WASHINGTON - Representatives Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), John Ratcliffe (R, TX-4), and Matt Gaetz (R, FL-1) sent a letter today to Attorney General Jeff Sessions, Secretary of Defense James Mattis, and Director of National Intelligence Daniel Coats urging Team Telecom to conduct an investigative review to confirm that the U.S. Telecoms database is adequately protected for its April 7, 2018 transition to Telcordia Technologies, a subsidiary of a foreign-owned company. Failure to complete a smooth transition of the database could leave consumers without wireless service, inhibit emergency services communications, and hinder criminal and national security investigations. PDF of the signed letter is available here. Full text of the letter is as follows: Dear Attorney General Sessions, Secretary Mattis and Director Coats: On July 25, 2016, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) gave final approval to the North American Numbering Council (NANC) that Telcordia Technologies serve as the next local number portability administrator (LNPA). The LNPA is vital to the nation’s critical communications infrastructure, public safety and virtually all significant criminal and national security investigations. Telcordia, a subsidiary of a foreign-owned company, will be responsible for routing millions of cellphone calls and text messages across the United States without an agreement on a rollback plan should the overhaul fail. The compressed timeline of this decision without a fallback plan and Telcordia’s contentious history provide serious grounds for concern. That is why I am requesting an urgently needed Team Telecom review to assess the security risks of foreign ownership of the LNPA before the impending deadline on April 7, 2018.Numerous stakeholders, including other lawmakers and the intelligence community, have heeded warnings regarding the transition to Telcordia without a workable contingency rollback plan. The North American Portability Management LLC’s (“NAPM LLC”) transition status report indicated that the lack of a contingency rollback plan remains a serious issue. Former Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff stated that the transition plan to Telcordia has “serious” problems and was “insufficient in both scope and specificity when compared with widely accepted national and international standards.” Additionally, in a letter to stakeholders, Chairman Pai called the failure of parties to the LNPA transition to reach an agreement on a contingency rollback plan “unacceptable.” Despite these concerns, the transition is set to begin as soon as April 7, 2018. Just a year ago, a whistleblower revealed that Telcordia violated a federal requirement that only U.S. citizens could work on building the sensitive phone-number database for this project. Furthermore, the whistleblower was fired for revealing that Telcordia was using a chinese national to write the software code. In light of the national security breach, Telcordia was forced to rewrite the entire database computer code to mitigate concerns by intelligence officials. Following this incident, then Congressman Mike Pompeo sent a letter to the FCC in 2016 requesting that the agency thoroughly investigate the vendor’s practice of permitting foreign nationals to write code and ensure that all national security and law enforcement requirements are met during the transition. The mishandling of U.S. computer code by a foreign company that will soon have access to our nation’s most sensitive phone database should warrant skepticism. While the database overhaul could save taxpayer dollars in management costs, it must not come at the risk of our national security. According to FCC Order 15-35, the FCC did not consult with Executive Branch entities with responsibility for law enforcement and national security matters regarding the LNPA selection. For that reason, I urge Team Telecom to issue an investigative review that proper rollback procedures are established before the transition takes place to ensure our critical infrastructure remains secure. Representatives charged with our national security should have the opportunity to carefully review this decision and implement an agreement on a rollback plan before the transition on April 7, 2018. Thank you for your urgent attention to this matter.
03.28.2018	Prior to the House vote, Congressman Zeldin spoke in support of his bill on the House floor. Watch here. WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) just announced that his bipartisan legislation (H.R.1005/S.324) to help severely disabled veterans on Long Island and across the country, by expanding access to Adult Day Health Care for disabled veterans who need extra assistance and special attention in their day to day lives, was signed by President Trump and is now law. Service members who are 70% or more service connected disabled often require significant assistance from others in order to carry out everyday tasks. Many times, the burden falls on their family members; some veterans may even need to reside in institutionalized facilities to receive the daily assistance of a trained medical professional. Both of these options can create financial and emotional hardships for the veteran and their family. One program that is currently available to help disabled veterans is Adult Day Health Care, which can be provided at State Veterans Homes across the United States. However, the expense of the program is oftentimes directly shouldered by the veteran and their family, which significantly limits the number of veterans who can enroll. Furthermore, the program is only currently offered at three facilities in the United States; one being the Long Island State Veterans Home, which is located in the First Congressional District of New York, in Stony Brook. Congressman Zeldin’s bill defines the Adult Day Health Care program as a reimbursable treatment option through the Department of Veterans Affairs, which guarantees all severely disabled veterans, those who are 70% or more service connected disabled, are able to access Adult Day Health Care at no cost to them. The bill would also help expand the program, which could be offered at any of the 153 State Veterans Homes (SVH) across the country. Congressman Zeldin said, “This is important legislation that provides a valuable and necessary service to our nation’s veterans, and I thank President Trump for signing it into law. By expanding access to Adult Day Health Care, we can ensure that all veterans receive the best and most efficient outpatient services that provide each veteran with the assistance and special attention they need, while still allowing them to maintain their independence. This new law expands care for disabled veterans on Long Island and across our country, allowing each veteran to lead a much more fulfilling life, while keeping families together and strong. Expanding Adult Day Health Care for our disabled veterans is a top priority, and I thank my colleagues in the House and Senate, especially Senator Orrin Hatch and House Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Phil Roe, and President Trump for delivering for our nation’s veterans.” United States Senator Orrin Hatch (R, Utah), Senate sponsor of the Adult Day Health Care Act, said, “Our Utah veterans deserve our utmost care and respect. This legislation will give veterans the opportunity to live and spend more time at home with their families while still receiving daily medical care and attention. It would allow state veterans homes—such as those in Ivins, Ogden, Payson, and Salt Lake City—to enter into agreements with the VA to provide adult day health care.” House Committee on Veterans Affairs Chairman Phil Roe said, “Our country made a promise to care for the men and women who sacrificed for our freedoms. I’m proud this legislation would expand access to adult day health care for veterans who qualify for, but are not currently utilizing, nursing home care, and would provide America’s heroes with companionship and care as they age. I’m grateful for Rep. Zeldin’s leadership on this important legislation.” Vietnam Veteran and Long Island State Veterans Home Patient Al Anderson said, “I am grateful to Congressman Zeldin for having the foresight to introduce this bill on behalf of all severely service connected veterans who reside in State Veterans Homes across the country. The bottom line is that this legislation will allow me to return home to my family, while still having the ability to receive essential services through the Adult Day Health Care program. I can keep my chronic conditions in check and still enjoy the comforts of my own home.” Spouse and Caregiver of Vietnam Veteran James Saladino Noreen Saladino said, “The passage of the State Veterans Home Adult Day Health Care Improvement Act of 2017 will be life changing for me and my husband, Jim. This legislation is one of the best things that has ever happened to us. My husband will be able to receive the care he requires in a safe and comfortable environment at the Long Island State Veterans Home, while I get a rest from being his sole caregiver. I want to thank Congressman Lee Zeldin and other Members of Congress who never ever gave up the fight for our nation’s veterans and their families.” Director of the Long Island State Veterans Home Fred Sganga said, “We are grateful to Congressman Lee Zeldin for his ongoing efforts to care for veterans both locally and nationally. This legislation will enable veterans to receive the essential services they deserve, while still being able to reside in their own homes. This legislation helps to restore a veteran's freedom to remain an active member of their community even after succumbing to the perils of military service. Congressman Zeldin never forgets the sacrifice of brave women and men who donned the uniform to protect the freedoms we all enjoy today.” President of the National Association of State Veterans Home Sharon Murphy said, “The National Association of State Veterans Homes is grateful to Congressman Zeldin for his foresight to provide essential services to our most disabled veterans, without the need for institutionalization.This legislation will have tremendous impact for our chronically ill and injured veterans as well as their caregivers.” Stony Brook University President Samuel L. Stanley Jr., MD said, "Congressman Zeldin's Adult Day Health Care bill provides a tremendous step forward in bringing quality and affordable care to Long Island's disabled veterans and their families. I commend Congressman Zeldin for his passionate pursuit of ensuring that our most vulnerable veterans obtain the very best care."
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after President Trump announced Ambassador John Bolton as his new National Security Advisor: “Ambassador John Bolton is ridiculously knowledgeable and will be a great National Security Adviser. The leaks coming out of the National Security Council will end, Obama administration holdovers will be gone and the team, chemistry and work product will all be improved. Ambassador Bolton is a very underrated, amazing American, and I applaud this extraordinarily talented pick. I look forward to working closely with Ambassador Bolton on the many national security concerns facing our exceptional country.” Our nation owes our utmost gratitude to Lieutenant General H.R. McMaster for fulfilling his decades of service to our country.” Congressman Zeldin posted this tweet following the announcement.
03.21.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement following the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission (ASMFC) proposed allocation for black sea bass for the 2018 season, which would unfairly cut New York State’s share by up to 12%, while other states will see their allocations grow: “With the vast majority of Long Island fishing taking place in waters shared with New Jersey and Connecticut, such as the Atlantic Ocean and Long Island Sound, it is unfair that New York anglers are, once again, being penalized with smaller fishing quotas than neighboring states. For my constituents, who are both fishermen and small business owners trying to attract customers, the ASFMC’s decision to, once again, cut New York off from its fair share while allowing New Jersey’s allocation to grow, is unacceptable. Two boats fishing next to each other with one allowed to catch up to double the amount of the other because they are landing the fish in New Jersey instead of New York is ridiculous and inequitable. “That is why, when it comes to fishing quotas, tri-state parity is so important. At the state level, New York’s representatives must fight more aggressively within these regional bodies to advocate for New York’s anglers who rely on fishing as a way of life that supports so much of our local economy. If our state representatives on the ASMFC-- who supported this terrible proposal and failed to fully advocate for New York-- aren’t willing to fight for our anglers, then they should step aside. “I call on all levels of government in our state to work together as one team to fight this unfair allocation and, if necessary, appeal this all the way to the Secretary of Commerce. Going into non-compliance is never the first option, but it may be the only one in taking a stand for New York anglers who year after year continue to get screwed.” The Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission (ASMFC) is a regional body that oversees fishing on the eastern seaboard of the United States. The council is comprised of representatives of each state in the region, Maine to Florida, and issues fishing allocations for various species including black sea bass, fluke and scup. These allocations, which are calculated and approved by the commission and are subject to ratification by the Department of Commerce’s National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), the federal agency with federal oversight over fishing in federal waters, determine the amount of fish anglers in each state can catch each season. Those allocations are then taken up by each state agency, in the case of New York, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC) then turns these allocations into a seasonal quota. The state has authority to determine season length, daily quotas and size limits for each species.
03.20.2018	Watch here. Download here. WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) led a moment of silence on the Floor of the House of Representatives in honor of the seven service members fallen in the line of duty during a helicopter crash in western Iraq on March 15th, including four from the 106th Rescue Wing of Francis S. Gabreski Air National Guard Base, located in the First Congressional District, in Westhampton Beach, New York: Congressman Zeldin’s remarks as prepared for delivery: Mr. Speaker, today, we rise to honor the service and sacrifice of seven airmen fallen in the line of duty last week on the Iraq-Syria border. There are no words that fully describe the profound sorrow and immense gratitude that consume us today. There are no words to describe the emptiness this loss leaves in the hearts of communities all across our nation. There is, however, no shortage of ways to describe these seven servicemen - selfless, heroes, patriots, and everything we aspire to be as a people, as a nation, and as Americans. These fallen airmen are the best of who we are. They are the embodiment of what makes this country the greatest in the world - the willingness to make the ultimate sacrifice in defense of our exceptional nation. There is no doubt these brave men, and the so many who have fallen before them, are the reason we have the opportunity to stand here today, in the well of the House of Representatives, in the heart of the United States Capitol, which should always serve as a beacon of hope and freedom for so many in our country and around the world. Each and every day these 7 Americans answered the call of duty, to defend the liberties on which our nation were founded, to defend their neighbors and communities, but most selflessly, to defend the millions of Americans they would never know. 4 of these airmen served with the 106th Air Rescue Wing in Westhampton Beach, New York, located in the First Congressional District. This amazing unit is made up the best of the best our nation has to offer with a long rich history of service and sacrifice. Mr. Speaker, the families of these 7 great Airmen have the unwavering thanks and appreciation of every American across our country, but most of all they have our utmost respect. We stand shoulder to shoulder with every one of them as they go through, undoubtedly, the most difficult moment of their lives. Captain Andreas B. O'Keeffe, Center Moriches, New York Captain Christopher T. Zanetis, Long Island City, New York Master Sergeant Christopher J. Raguso, Commack, New York Staff Sergeant Dashan J. Briggs, Port Jefferson Station, New York Captain Mark K. Weber, Colorado Springs, Colorado Master Sergeant William R. Posch, Indialantic, Florida Staff Sergeant Carl P. Enis, Tallahassee, Florida Mr. Speaker, I request that the House now observe a moment of silence in memory of these 7 dedicated, selfless and courageous airmen.
03.20.2018	WASHINGTON - On Tuesday, March 20, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with the Northeast Regional Director of the Fish and Wildlife Services Wendi Weber. During the meeting, they discussed local priorities, including maintaining beach access at Smith Point County Park as the high season approaches, moving the Fire Island to Montauk Point (FIMP) Project forward and the important role of NY-1’s national wildlife refuges.
03.19.2018	WASHINGTON - On Wednesday, March 14, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) held a Tele-Town Hall, during which thousands of NY-1 constituents participated. To listen, click the image below or link here. Congressman Zeldin hosts several different kinds of public outreach events to connect with NY-1 constituents, including Mobile Office Hours, Coffee with Your Congressman, Lunch with Lee, and Pizza and Policy Town Halls, Facebook Live, and many other opportunities for constituents to meet with the Congressman and directly ask questions and voice their concerns. While the Congressman is in Washington, D.C. voting, he hosts Tele-Town Halls. Constituents interested in learning more about future meetings/events, should contact (631) 289-1097.
03.19.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - On Sunday, March 18, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the Patchogue St. Patrick’s Day Parade with local elected officials.
03.19.2018	ST. JAMES, NY - On Saturday, March 17, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the St. James St. Patrick’s Day Parade with local elected officials.
03.18.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Following the completion of the process of notifying all next of kin, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released a statement today regarding the seven service members fallen in the line of duty during a helicopter crash in western Iraq on March 15th, including four from the 106th Rescue Wing of Francis S. Gabreski Air National Guard Base, located in the First Congressional District, in Westhampton Beach, New York: “There are no words that fully describe the profound sorrow and immense gratitude that consume our community today. There are no words to describe the emptiness this loss leaves in the heart of every Long Islander. There is, however, no shortage of ways to describe these seven servicemembers - selfless, heroes, patriots, and everything we aspire to be as a people, as a nation, and as Americans. “These fallen airmen are the best of who we are. They are the embodiment of what makes this country the greatest in the world - the willingness to make the ultimate sacrifice in defense of our exceptional nation. “Their families have the unwavering thanks and appreciation of every American across our nation, but most of all they have our utmost respect. In that vein, I ask every member of our community to honor the privacy of each of these families as they go through, undoubtedly, the most difficult moment of their lives.” The names of the fallen are as follows: Captain Andreas B. O'Keeffe, 37, of Center Moriches, New York Captain Christopher T. Zanetis, 37, of Long Island City, New York Master Sergeant Christopher J. Raguso, 39, of Commack, New York Staff Sergeant Dashan J. Briggs, 30, of Port Jefferson Station, New York Captain Mark K. Weber, 29, of Colorado Springs, Colorado Master Sergeant William R. Posch, 36, of Indialantic, Florida Staff Sergeant Carl P. Enis, 31, of Tallahassee, Florida
03.17.2018	CENTER MORICHES, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was joined by local elected officials, small business owners, boaters, fishermen, and other stakeholders at the Moriches Yacht Club in Center Moriches, calling on the Army Corps of Engineers to undertake an immediate emergency dredging of the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway, Moriches Bay and Moriches Inlet in light of several winter storms that have pummeled area waterways and significantly worsened navigation conditions. After the press conference, Congressman Lee Zeldin joined local fishermen and Captain Joe Tangel, owner and operator of KING COD Fishing in Moriches, to survey firsthand the dangerous navigation conditions of the intracoastal, bay and inlet. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “The Army Corps of Engineers must undertake an emergency dredging of the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway, Moriches Inlet, and Moriches Bay without delay. The urgency of this issue is now greater than ever due to dangerous navigational conditions created by extreme shoaling. These waterways are vital arteries for our vibrant coastal economy of marinas, restaurants, recreational boaters, commercial fishermen, and all of the small businesses that support these industries. Increasingly unsafe navigational conditions are becoming a greater threat each and every day. Failure to dredge these vital waterways will not only cause economic hardship and create a public safety crisis, but will bring about significant environmental issues.” Brookhaven Supervisor Ed Romaine said, “This bay needs to be dredged. The Intracoastal Waterway needs to be dredged and if anyone has seen the pictures that inlet will close up. We need to keep that inlet open. We need the Army Corps of Engineers to do an emergency dredging. We need the New York State DEC to cooperate with the Army Corps, and we need to get this done now. New York State Assemblyman Dean Murray said, “It is important that we work together on all levels of government to show that we need to get going right away. We all have to come together to get this done as quickly as possible.“ Westhampton Beach Mayor Maria Moore said, “Thank you Congressman Zeldin for being our voice on this very important issue. It is critical that we get this done for boater safety, for our commercial fishermen, and for our local economy.” Owner of KING COD Fishing Joe Tangel, “I’m a full-time year round fisherman who supports a family of four transiting Moriches Inlet close to 200 times a year. I have been fishing out of Moriches for over 20 years. In that time, I have seen the inlet change many times. After the past three nor’easters over the past month, this inlet is in the worst shape i have ever seen it in my entire lifetime of fishing. With the recreational boating season fast approaching, emergency dredging action is required immediately. My greatest fear is loss of boats this season, loss of property, and imminent death. The economic harm these conditions will cause will be widespread throughout this community. The conditions threaten the livelihood of eight large private marinas, three full-time passenger carrying fishing vessels, numerous commercial operations, and tackle shops.” Commercial Fisherman Captain Eddie Chiofolo said, “I’ve been here all my life. I’ve fished Moriches Bay since I was 4-years-old. Moriches Bay is in the worst shape I’ve ever seen it in my entire life. It’s impassable. We need this inlet dredged immediately. There’s $15-20 million in recreational economic value that comes in and out of Moriches. The Army Corps has to step up and do something.” On Thursday, March 15th, Congressman Zeldin called for an emergency dredge of the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway, Moriches Bay and Moriches Inlet in a letter to the Army Corps of Engineers, following a meeting on the issue Thursday morning with Colonel Thomas Asbery, Commander of the New York District of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
03.16.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement on the service members fallen in the line of duty during a helicopter crash in western Iraq on March 15th: ‪"While I cannot get into further details yet due to the process of notifying next of kin, I just want to extend my deepest condolences to the families of the great American heroes lost in yesterday's helicopter crash on the Iraq-Syria border. These lives represented the best of the best of our proud nation!"
03.15.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY- Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) called on the Army Corps of Engineers to undertake an immediate emergency dredging of the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway, Moriches Inlet, and Moriches Bay in light of recent storms that have battered the coastline and greatly worsened conditions. “After three strong and unprecedented recent winter storms, not only has the situation significantly deteriorated in Moriches Bay and throughout the entire Long Island Intracoastal Waterway, but sand has virtually closed Moriches Inlet,” Congressman Zeldin wrote. “This inlet provides critical access to the Atlantic Ocean and has allowed some boats to bypass the shoaling problems of Moriches Bay. The threat of a triple closure of the Intracoastal Waterway, Bay and Inlet, however, will guarantee a major blow to marine related businesses across eastern Suffolk County and increase overall danger to boating safety. Failure to dredge these vital waterways will not only cause economic hardship and create a public safety crisis, but will bring about significant environmental issues.” A signed PDF of the letter is available here. Full text of the letter is as follows: Colonel Thomas D. Asbery Commander of District Engineer United States Army Corps of Engineers New York District 26 Federal Plaza New York, New York 10278 Dear Colonel Asbery, On February 17, 2018, I wrote to you requesting the dredging of important waterways in my district in an effort to address the dangerous navigational conditions created by extreme shoaling. In the wake of a series of winter storms, which have battered our area and greatly worsened conditions, I write to you again with increased urgency regarding this critical issue. I urge the Army Corps of Engineers to undertake an emergency dredging of the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway, Moriches Inlet, and Moriches Bay without delay. My previous letter detailed the vital importance Moriches Bay and Moriches Inlet play in the economic welfare and public safety of Suffolk County. Furthermore, the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway is a federally recognized navigation channel that is essential for barge transportation, commercial fishing, and other activities on Long Island’s south shore. Stretching from the Great South Bay to the west and ending at Shinnecock Bay to the east, the Long Island Intracoastal Waterway is one of the region’s busiest maritime highways. These waterways are vital arteries for our vibrant coastal economy of marinas, restaurants, recreational boaters, commercial fishermen, and all of the small businesses that support these industries. Failure to properly maintain these key channels will harm local businesses, cause a critical drop in sales tax revenue for local governments, and endanger public safety. Increasingly unsafe navigational conditions become a greater threat each and every day. After three strong and unprecedented recent winter storms, not only has the situation significantly deteriorated in Moriches Bay and throughout the entire Long Island Intracoastal Waterway, but sand has virtually closed Moriches Inlet. This inlet provides critical access to the Atlantic Ocean and has allowed some boats to bypass the shoaling problems of Moriches Bay. The threat of a triple closure of the Intracoastal Waterway, Bay and Inlet, however, will guarantee a major blow to marine related businesses across eastern Suffolk County and increase overall danger to boating safety. Failure to dredge these vital waterways will not only cause economic hardship and create a public safety crisis, but will bring about significant environmental issues. Moriches Inlet provides a critical environmental function, allowing the transfer of water between the bay and ocean. Without this exchange, the bay will become stagnate and the subsequent lack of oxygen in the water will threaten local marine life. The importance of the exchange of ocean and bay water was demonstrated with the reopening of Old Inlet after Superstorm Sandy in 2012. Old Inlet has revitalized the bay bringing cleaner water and a healthier marine environment. All of this progress will be lost if the closing of the Moriches Inlet is allowed to occur in the absence of an emergency dredge. Although the Army Corps of Engineers and U.S. Coast Guard have acknowledged the navigational dangers present in these waterways, the current lack of an emergency designation for this critical project has left it at the bottom of the queue to compete with other waterways that are prioritized on a national basis based on commercial tonnage. This is an unacceptable response to the crisis facing my constituents, which is why an emergency designation is imperative. I thank you in advance for your prompt attention to this urgent concern. Should you have any questions, please contact my District Director Mark Woolley at 631-289-1097 or Mark.Woolley@mail.house.gov. Sincerely, Lee Zeldin Member of Congress cc: Rear Admiral Steven D. Poulin; Commander- First Coast Guard District, U.S. Coast Guard.
03.13.2018	WHAT: Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) will host his next Tele-Town Hall from Washington, D.C., during which he will provide important Congressional updates and directly answer constituent questions. WHEN: Wednesday, March 14, 2018 7:30 PM - 8:30 PM WHO: Congressman Lee Zeldin and NY-1 constituents interested in participating. SIGN UP: Click here to learn more and sign up. Constituents will begin receiving the Tele-Town Hall call as early as 7:30pm. Constituents who wish to participate, but for some reason don't receive a call or miss the call, may visit zeldin.house.gov/live to tune in. Congressman Zeldin hosts several different kinds of public outreach events to connect with NY-1 constituents, including Mobile Office Hours, Coffee with Your Congressman, Lunch with Lee, and Pizza and Policy Town Halls, Facebook Live, and many other opportunities for constituents to meet with the Congressman and directly ask questions and voice their concerns. While the Congressman is Washington, D.C. voting, he hosts Tele-Town Halls to provide constituents with important Congressional updates and listen to their concerns.
03.13.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced today that his bipartisan legislation (H.R.1005/S.324) to help severely disabled veterans on Long Island and across the country, by expanding access to Adult Day Health Care for disabled veterans who need extra assistance and special attention in their day to day lives, passed the House of Representatives unanimously and now heads to the President’s desk for his signature, with which it will become law. Service members who are 70% or more service connected disabled often require significant assistance from others in order to carry out everyday tasks. Many times, the burden falls on family members of disabled veterans; some veterans may even need to reside in institutionalized facilities to receive the daily assistance of a trained medical professional. Both of these options can create financial and emotional hardships for the veteran and their family. One program that is currently available to help disabled veterans is Adult Day Health Care, which can be provided at State Veterans Homes across the United States. However, the expense of the program is oftentimes directly shouldered by the veteran and their family, which significantly limits the number of veterans who can enroll. Furthermore, the program is only currently offered at three facilities in the United States; one being the Long Island State Veterans Home, which is located in the First Congressional District of New York, in Stony Brook. Congressman Zeldin’s bill defines the Adult Day Health Care program as a reimbursable treatment option through the Department of Veterans Affairs, which guarantees all severely disabled veterans, those who are 70% or more service connected disabled, are able to access Adult Day Health Care at no cost to them. The bill would also help expand the program, which could be offered at any of the 153 State Veterans Homes (SVH) across the country. Congressman Zeldin said, “This is an important piece of legislation that provides a valuable and necessary service to our nation’s veterans, and I am pleased to announce this bill now heads to the President’s desk. By expanding access to Adult Day Health Care programs, we can ensure that all veterans receive the best and most efficient outpatient services that provide each veteran with the assistance and special attention they need, while still allowing them to maintain their independence. This important legislation will expand care for disabled veterans on Long Island and across our country, allowing each veteran to lead a much more fulfilling life, while keeping families together and strong. Expanding Adult Day Health Care for our disabled veterans is a top priority, and I thank my colleagues in the House and Senate, especially Senator Orrin Hatch and House Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Phil Roe, for passing this commonsense legislation and look forward to the President signing it into law.” United States Senator Orrin Hatch (R, Utah), Senate sponsor of the Adult Day Health Care Act, said, “Our Utah veterans deserve our utmost care and respect. This legislation will give veterans the opportunity to live and spend more time at home with their families while still receiving daily medical care and attention. If signed into law, it would allow state veterans homes—such as those in Ivins, Ogden, Payson, and Salt Lake City—to enter into agreements with the VA to provide adult day health care. I’m thrilled to see this bill pass in the House and move to the President’s desk for his signature.” House Committee on Veterans Affairs Chairman Phil Roe said, “Our country made a promise to care for the men and women who sacrificed for our freedoms. I’m proud this legislation would expand access to adult day health care for veterans who qualify for, but are not currently utilizing, nursing home care, and would provide America’s heroes with companionship and care as they age. I’m grateful for Rep. Zeldin’s leadership on this important legislation, and I look forward to President Trump signing this bill into law.” Vietnam Veteran and Long Island State Veterans Home Patient Al Anderson said, “I am grateful to Congressman Zeldin for having the foresight to introduce this bill on behalf of all severely service connected veterans who reside in State Veterans Homes across the country. The bottom line is that this legislation will allow me to return home to my family, while still having the ability to receive essential services through the Adult Day Health Care program. I can keep my chronic conditions in check and still enjoy the comforts of my own home.” Spouse and Caregiver of Vietnam Veteran James Saladino Noreen Saladino said, “The passage of the State Veterans Home Adult Day Health Care Improvement Act of 2017 will be life changing for me and my husband, Jim. This legislation is one of the best things that has ever happened to us. My husband will be able to receive the care he requires in a safe and comfortable environment at the Long Island State Veterans Home, while I get a rest from being his sole caregiver. I want to thank Congressman Lee Zeldin and other Members of Congress who never ever gave up the fight for our nation’s veterans and their families.” Director of the Long Island State Veterans Home Fred Sganga said, “We are grateful to Congressman Lee Zeldin for his ongoing efforts to care for veterans both locally and nationally. This legislation will enable veterans to receive the essential services they deserve, while still being able to reside in their own homes. This legislation helps to restore a veteran's freedom to remain an active member of their community even after succumbing to the perils of military service. Congressman Zeldin never forgets the sacrifice of brave women and men who donned the uniform to protect the freedoms we all enjoy today.” President of the National Association of State Veterans Home Sharon Murphy said, “The National Association of State Veterans Homes is grateful to Congressman Zeldin for his foresight to provide essential services to our most disabled veterans, without the need for institutionalization.This legislation will have tremendous impact for our chronically ill and injured veterans as well as their caregivers.” Stony Brook University President Samuel L. Stanley Jr., MD said, "Today's passage of Congressman Zeldin's Adult Day Health Care bill provides a tremendous step forward in bringing quality and affordable care to Long Island's disabled veterans and their families. I commend Congressman Zeldin for his passionate pursuit of ensuring that our most vulnerable veterans obtain the very best care."
03.13.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after President Trump announced CIA Director Mike Pompeo would be appointed as Secretary of State: "CIA Director Mike Pompeo was #1 in his class at West Point, an exceptional CIA Director and Member of the House and a good friend who I have a tremendous amount of respect for. There is great potential for Mike Pompeo to be one of the greatest Secretaries of State in American history. I cannot think of anyone in our country who would be a better appointment for this critical position at this important moment in our nation's history."
03.12.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced a $2.325 million federal grant awarded to Stony Brook University for the study of Hybrid Electrochemistry and Advanced Combustion for High-Efficiency Power. “Our region is a hub for clean and green energy with Stony Brook University and Brookhaven National Lab, pioneering the future of renewable energy and creating jobs right here in NY-1,” said Congressman Lee Zeldin. “This $2.3 million federal grant is critical for the Stony Brook University community and Long Islanders, supporting research that promotes better clean and green energy, reduced emissions, improved air quality and lower energy bills.” In FY2018, Congressman Zeldin voted for full funding of the Department of Energy’s Advanced Research Projects Agency - Energy (ARPA-E) program at $306 million, the primary funding source for this important grant. He also voted to fully fund the Department of Energy’s Office of Science at $5.3 billion, funding essential to energy research projects at SUNY Stony Brook, Brookhaven National Laboratory and other world-renowned scientific institutions.
03.12.2018	PATCHOGUE, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced a $2.325 million federal grant awarded to Stony Brook University for the study of Hybrid Electrochemistry and Advanced Combustion for High-Efficiency Power. “Our region is a hub for clean and green energy with Stony Brook University and Brookhaven National Lab, pioneering the future of renewable energy and creating jobs right here in NY-1,” said Congressman Lee Zeldin. “This $2.3 million federal grant is critical for the Stony Brook University community and Long Islanders, supporting research that promotes better clean and green energy, reduced emissions, improved air quality and lower energy bills.” In FY2018, Congressman Zeldin voted for full funding of the Department of Energy’s Advanced Research Projects Agency - Energy (ARPA-E) program at $306 million, the primary funding source for this important grant. He also voted to fully fund the Department of Energy’s Office of Science at $5.3 billion, funding essential to energy research projects at SUNY Stony Brook, Brookhaven National Laboratory and other world-renowned scientific institutions.
03.12.2018	HOLBROOK, NY - On Saturday, March 11, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Manorville Community Ambulance Installation Dinner at Villa Lombardi’s in Holbrook. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with Manorville Community Ambulance Chief Edder Peralta
03.12.2018	WADING RIVER, NY - On Saturday, March 11, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Brookhaven Fire Department Installation Dinner at East Wind Caterers in Wading River. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above speaking at the dinner.
03.12.2018	ROCKY POINT, NY - On Sunday, March 11, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the Friends of St. Patrick Annual Rocky Point St. Patrick’s Day Parade alongside several other state and local elected officials.
03.12.2018	WESTHAMPTON BEACH, NY - On Saturday, March 10, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the Westhampton Beach St. Patrick’s Day Parade with local elected officials, including Assemblyman Fred Thiele, Southampton Town Supervisor Jay Schneiderman, Westhampton Beach Mayor Maria Moore, Southampton Town Clerk Sundy Schermeyer, Southampton Town Board Members Christine Scalera, John Bouvier and Julie Lofstad, Southampton Town Trustee Scott Horowitz, and Westhampton Beach Trustees Stephen A. Frano, Rob Rubio, Brian Tymann, and Ralph Urban.
03.12.2018	CUTCHOGUE, NY - On Saturday, March 10, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the Cutchogue St. Patrick’s Day Parade with state, county and local officials, including Senator Ken LaValle, Assemblyman Anthony Palumbo, Suffolk County Legislator Al Krupski, Southold Councilwoman Jill Doherty and Southold Trustees Rich Caggiano and Nick Krupski.
03.09.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined Representatives Leonard Lance (NJ-7), Peter T. King (NY-1) , Frank LoBiondo (NJ-2), John J. Faso (NY-19), Chris Smith (NJ-4), Dan Donovan (NY-11), Tom MacArthur (NJ-3), and Claudia Tenney (NY-22) in urging Speaker of the House Paul Ryan to continue Congressional funding for the Hudson River Gateway Tunnel project amid reports he had be urged not to fund the infrastructure project. “The Northeast is an economic powerhouse. It is home to 51 million people – one in seven Americans – and four of the 10 largest metropolitan areas in the United States. The Northeast accounts for 30 percent of all jobs in the United States, 20 percent of the Nation's gross domestic product and contributes $3 trillion annually to the U.S. economy,” the Members wrote. “The Northeast Rail Corridor is the region’s backbone. It is the most heavily used passenger rail line in the United States serving more than 750,000 people every day on more than 2,200 intercity and commuter trains. The Northeast Rail Corridor is a moneymaker for Amtrak and the Federal Government. In 2016, nearly 3.5 million riders spent $593.7 million on seats on the high-speed Acela Express between Union Station in Washington and South Station in Boston.” A PDF of the signed letter is available here. Full text of the letter is as follows: The Honorable Paul D. Ryan Speaker of the House of Representatives H-232, United States Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan: We write in strong support for the Hudson River Gateway Tunnel project amid reports that President Trump is pushing congressional leaders not to fund this crucial infrastructure project of national significance. The Northeast is an economic powerhouse. It is home to 51 million people – one in seven Americans – and four of the 10 largest metropolitan areas in the United States. The Northeast accounts for 30 percent of all jobs in the United States, 20 percent of the Nation's gross domestic product and contributes $3 trillion annually to the U.S. economy. The Northeast Rail Corridor is the region’s backbone. It is the most heavily used passenger rail line in the United States serving more than 750,000 people every day on more than 2,200 intercity and commuter trains. The Northeast Rail Corridor is a moneymaker for Amtrak and the Federal Government. In 2016, nearly 3.5 million riders spent $593.7 million on seats on the high-speed Acela Express between Union Station in Washington and South Station in Boston. Passenger and freight travel up and down this 457 mile corridor is critical to the economy of the entire country. Yet century-old tunnels under the Hudson River have deteriorated because of age, exhaustive use and saltwater infiltration during Hurricane Sandy in 2012. These tunnels are at the vortex of the Northeast Rail Corridor. If one of these tunnels were to fail, the negative economic and transportation implications would ripple to other States such as Kentucky, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Indiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, North Carolina, Vermont, Virginia and West Virginia. The Hudson River Gateway Tunnel project would supplement the century-old tunnels. The House included $900 million in potential funding for the project in a spending bill that it passed in September. And according to the Northeast Corridor Commission, underinvestment in the Northeast Corridor has already cost the economy $500 million annually. Any further degradation or delays will only increase these economic costs. We urge you to reject any effort to jeopardize this project of national significance and ask that we meet with you personally. We look forward to your response. Sincerely,
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON - On Wednesday, March 7th, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with the Tuberous Sclerosis Alliance of NY & NJ, including Lori Distefano of Selden (center right) and Carol Ann White of Lake Grove (right), to discuss how critical research funding and scientific discovery continues to help those living with Tuberous Sclerosis.
03.08.2018	Reps. Zeldin (R, NY-1) and Courtney (D, CT-2) receive the National Sea Grant Award. WASHINGTON - On Wednesday, March 7, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin was awarded the National Sea Grant Award by the Sea Grant Association, which advocates for a greater understanding, use, and conservation of marine, coastal and Great Lakes resources. Last year, Congressman Zeldin was joined by Congressman Joe Courtney (D, CT-2) in spearheading the largest bipartisan appropriations request in the history of the Sea Grant Program with 95 total cosigners and secured full funding of $72.5 million for the Sea Grant Program for FY18 despite the President’s proposed budget zeroing out the program. “Representing a district almost completely surrounded by saltwater, funding to support our fishermen, our oyster growers, protect our beaches, and support marine science research is essential for our local economy and environment,” said Congressman Zeldin. “The Sea Grant Association plays a critical role in securing and providing this funding to the Long Islanders who rely on it most, and it is such an honor to receive this award from such a worthwhile organization.” “Last year, when the 2018 budget came out, Sea Grant was zeroed out. Congressman Zeldin stood up and said, ‘Not on my watch,” said Director of New York Sea Grant, Stony Brook Professor and NY-1 constituent Bill Wise. “He has continued to fight during this year’s budget, and it is because of champions like Congressman Zeldin that we are hopeful this critical funding will continue to be provided.”
03.08.2018	Rep. Zeldin with Chairman of the Long Island Wine Council and NY-1 constituent Steve Bate. WASHINGTON – On Wednesday, March 7, 2018, Representatives Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) and Earl Blumenauer (D, OR-3) spoke at the Wine Origins Alliance where they announced the introduction of House Resolution 766, which celebrates America’s wineries and vineyards and recognizes the importance of distinctive American winegrowing regions. “This year marks the 40th anniversary of the creation of American Viticulture Area designation, which allows vintners to more accurately describe the origin of their wines and helps them build and enhance the reputation and value of the wines they produce,” Representatives Zeldin and Blumenauer said. “With more than 10,000 wineries operating in all 50 states, American wines contribute to the economic and cultural life of our nation. Our wineries generate hundreds of billions of dollars for the U.S. economy in any given year and employ nearly 1 million Americans. We look forward to continuing to work with our colleagues to promote awareness of, and appreciation for, distinctive American wineries and vineyards for years to come.” Long Island Wine Council Board Member Alex Rosanelli, who was present at tonight’s event, said, “Consumers and winemakers agree that when our region names are misused, it weakens our reputation and diminishes the credibility of our entire industry as a whole. We encourage all members of Congress to support this resolution and efforts to protect wine region names in the United States and abroad.” Representative for the Oregon Wine Board and Willamette Valley Wineries Harry Peterson-Nedry said, “Special places make unique wines and deserve name protection. I want to thank Congressmen Blumenauer and Zeldin for recognizing the diversity of U.S. wine regions and that wine comes from specific places. That’s why Willamette Valley wine is impossible to duplicate anywhere else than in Oregon.”
03.06.2018	WASHINGTON - On Tuesday, March 6th, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with constituent advocates of Parent Project Muscular Dystrophy in the U.S. Capitol Building in Washington, D.C., including Harry Merzin and Anastasia Portnoy from Stony Brook, and Grace, Terrance and Ed Lightcap from Montauk (left to right), to discuss the need for Congress to provide critical funding for Americans, especially young adults and children, with Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy.
03.06.2018	WASHINGTON - Representatives Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) and Josh Gottheimer (D, NJ-5) today led a bipartisan letter urging Attorney General Jeff Sessions to enforce the Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA) with respect to Qatar’s media outlet Al Jazeera. The bipartisan letter was signed by Rep. Lee Zeldin (NY-1), Rep. Josh Gottheimer (NJ-5), Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX), Rep. Steve Chabot (OH-1), Rep. Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), Rep. Ron DeSantis (FL-6), Rep. Matt Gaetz (FL-1), Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-1), Rep. Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15), Rep. Darrell Issa (CA-49), Rep. Mike Johnson (LA-4), Rep. Peter King (NY-2), Rep. Ted Poe (TX-2), Rep. John Ratcliffe (TX-4), Rep. Tom Reed (NY-23), Rep. Keith Rothfus (PA-12), Rep. David Rouzer (NC-7), Rep. Steve Stivers (OH-15), and Rep. Tom Suozzi (NY-3). “Al Jazeera’s radical anti-American, anti-Semitic, and anti-Israel content is extraordinarily troubling and must be closely scrutinized to determine whether Al Jazeera is in violation of U.S. law,” said Congressman Zeldin, Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. “As a state-sponsored news organization that favorably covers foreign terrorist organizations, including Hamas, Hezbollah, and others, it is critical the United States takes action where laws are being broken and American interests are being undermined.” “For years, Qatar has used its state-controlled propaganda arm, Al Jazeera, to incite violence, glorify terrorist killers as ‘martyrs,’ and broadcast hateful, extremist content. But recent reports that the network’s operatives secretly filmed American nonprofit organizations in Washington show the urgent need for an investigation to determine whether Al Jazeera undertook ‘political activities’ in the U.S. and should register as a foreign agent. Now more than ever, American citizens deserve to know the difference between foreign propaganda and independent media,” said Congressman Josh Gottheimer. A signed PDF of the letter is available here. Full text of the letter is as follows: March 6, 2018 The Honorable Jeff Sessions Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20530-0001 Dear Attorney General Sessions: We write regarding the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) enforcement of the Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA). On August 17, 2017, the DOJ National Security Division determined that RTTV America, a state-sponsored media organization funded by the Russian government, is obligated to register under the FARA. While we welcome this determination, Congress needs clarification as to whether additional foreign principals should also be required to register under FARA, including Qatar’s Al Jazeera, which the U.S. State Department has indicated is state-controlled. Founded by state charter in 1996 and headquartered in Doha, the Al Jazeera Media Network maintains an estimated global reach of 310 million people in more than 160 countries, and a presence in U.S. cities including Washington, New York, Chicago, Miami, and Los Angeles. Its broadcasts are easily accessible, including via social media, and, as stated by the U.S. Ambassador to Qatar in 2009, Al Jazeera is “one of Qatar’s most valuable political and diplomatic tools” and was “used as a chip” to shape Qatar’s relations with other governments. We find it troubling that the content produced by this network often directly undermines American interests with favorable coverage of U.S. State Department-designated Foreign Terrorist Organizations, including Hamas, Hezbollah, Palestinian Islamic Jihad, and Jabhat al-Nusra, al-Qaeda’s branch in Syria. Furthermore, Al Jazeera’s record of radical anti-American, anti-Semitic, and anti-Israel broadcasts warrants scrutiny from regulators to determine whether this network is in violation of U.S. law. Such an investigation should cover the full range of activities undertaken by Al Jazeera in the United States, including reports that it infiltrated American 501(c)(3) and (c)(4) nonprofit organizations. As highlighted by your Department, “the purpose of FARA is to inform the American public of the activities of agents working for foreign principals to influence U.S. Government officials or the American public with reference to the domestic or foreign policies of the United States, or with reference to the political or public interests, policies, or relations of a foreign country or a foreign political party.” We urge you and the Department to ensure that this law is rigorously enforced and applied fairly and uniformly to protect U.S. national interests from the undue influence of foreign nations. As such, we respectfully request that you provide our offices with detailed information about the DOJ’s investigative process, and whether additional entities, including Al Jazeera, meet the legal definition of “foreign principal” and if so, whether its subsidiaries should be required to register as “foreign agents” under FARA. American citizens deserve to know whether the information and news media they consume is impartial, or if it is deceptive propaganda pushed by foreign nations. Thank you for your attention to this important issue. We look forward to your prompt response. Sincerely,
03.05.2018	PATCHOGUE, N.Y. - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, introduced House Resolution 718, condemning the government of Cameroon’s discrimination against the country’s Anglophone minority and detainment of innocent civilians. In December, the Cameroonian government unlawfully detained Anglophone activist and Stony Brook University Professor Patrice Nganang. On Friday, February 23, 2018, Congressman Zeldin met with Patrice Nganang, during which time he presented Professor Nganang with the legislation he inspired. “Earlier this year, I underscored to Ambassador Nikki Haley my grave concern regarding the deteriorating situation in Cameroon and the Cameroonian government’s actions to undermine the equality of all citizens, especially the Anglophone minority,” said Congressman Zeldin. “In December, this deteriorating situation hit home with the arrest of Stony Brook Professor Patrice Nganang. In the face of an increasingly oppressive government, Professor Nganang has worked tirelessly for a better future for his country and family. As Professor Nganang fights for the freedom of all Cameroonians, we will always fight for his. It is such an honor to be able to introduce this House Resolution on behalf of Professor Nganang and the many activists who have been and are still currently detained in Cameroon.” Patrice Nganang said, “'I feel not only honored, but also blessed and humbled by this resolution. It honors not me, but the thousands of activists who ran the best campaign I have ever witnessed and had me released earlier, in a country where people spend sometimes nine years in jail because their trial is postponed. I understand it as a pledge to campaign for the hundreds of innocent Southern Cameroonians who are still in jail in Cameroonian prisons. Thank you very much!" The Cameroon American Council said, "The Cameroon American Council is grateful to Congressman Zeldin for this first-ever Congressional resolution on the dire Anglophone crisis in Cameroon. Back in October 2017, well before Dr. Patrice Ngagang was abducted and jailed, Congressman Zeldin and a bipartisan group of more than 20 Representatives wrote to Ambassador Nikki Haley with a cautionary tale. This is the kind of visionary foresight we have come to expect from Congressman Zeldin, and in his capacity as member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, he understands Cameroon and its diaspora on Long Island and through the United States. As America's leading African immigrant advocacy group, the Cameroon American Council will mobilize its vast national network to get a bipartisan group of Members of Congress to support this resolution."
03.05.2018	It’s not car accidents. It’s not heart attacks. It’s drug overdoses that are the leading cause of death for Americans under 50. As a whole, our nation has been debilitated by the rise of the heroin and opioid abuse epidemic, and as heroin and opioids flood the streets of our communities on Long Island and across America, the issue continues to become increasingly personal. Addiction is a devastating disease that takes hold of our loved ones and impacts everyone around that person. This heartbreaking disease is claiming lives, tearing apart families and destroying our communities. I’ve been to way too many wakes as a Member of Congress where a young man or young woman was being buried due to an overdose. Even one young life lost is too many. No parent should ever have to bury their child. No mother or father should ever experience that pain; it’s a deeply gut wrenching moment that has become all too common. These are our children, and when it comes to our sons and daughters this couldn’t possibly be any more urgent of a crisis. From law enforcement to local elected officials, medical professionals to members of local community groups, everyone has a role to play in eradicating this devastating epidemic. In Congress, I’ve dedicated myself to working with those on both sides of the aisle to find solutions and achieve positive results. In 2016, I helped the lead the effort to pass the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) into law, which provides $8.3 billion in federal funding to help combat the heroin and opioid abuse epidemic through treatment, education, enforcement and prevention. Furthermore, it provides $3.6 billion to fully fund the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration (SAMHSA) and maintains robust funding for the Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Block Grant. As a member of the House Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, I have supported over 20 pieces of legislation to provide our communities with the tools and resources we need to increase treatment, recovery, education, enforcement and prevention services. I recently voted for over $747 million more to address the heroin and opioid abuse epidemic and, going forward, I will fight to secure more funding for our communities this year and as we craft next year’s budget. In addition to vital funding, I have also made it my priority to provide Long Island with a greater supply of Naloxone, or Narcan, a life saving medication that is safe and easy to administer and is proven to reverse an overdose within minutes. It is also especially important that once an individual is saved by Narcan that they immediately get the help they need or many of these individuals will go right back to using heroin instantly. Furthermore, we must crack down on the criminals who unlawfully import and distribute increasingly lethal drugs. Drug traffickers manufacture synthetic drugs and continue to alter molecular structures in an effort to thwart United States drug laws. These synthetic opioids, such as fentanyl, can be as much as 100 times more powerful than painkillers. That’s why I cosponsor the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act to provide swifter action to stop the unlawful importation and distribution of ever-evolving synthetic drugs and provide law enforcement with the resources they need. This is a crisis that must be addressed by every level of government, insurance companies, pharmaceutical companies, medical providers, and others, and there is not a minute to spare. In Congress, I am committed to doing everything I can to help those grappling with drug addiction and their families. This a life and death issue that could not possibly be more time sensitive. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York and is a member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic in the House of Representatives, which focuses on finding solutions, spreading awareness and increasing educational efforts.
03.02.2018	FARMINGVILLE, N.Y. - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted a public comment session this afternoon on the Administration's proposal to open 90% of the waters off the coast of the United States to offshore drilling. Hundreds of Long Islanders attended today’s meeting. Congressman Zeldin had a lengthy conversation earlier this month with Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke with regards to this request. The two also had a follow up meeting in the Capitol this week where Congressman Zeldin reiterated the urgency of this request and the need to schedule for as soon as possible prior to the end of the current public comment period, which closes on March 9, 2018. At today’s meeting, Department of Interior officials listened to and recorded public comments. Originally scheduled to last two hours and end at 2 PM, today’s session was extended past 3:00 PM to ensure everyone who wanted to provide oral testimony had the opportunity to today. Individuals were also able to submit written testimony today as well. In January, Congressman Zeldin was joined by State and Local Officials, Environmental Stakeholders, and Business Leaders in opposition to offshore drilling off the Long Island Coast and urged the Department of the Interior to hold a public meeting on Long Island to hear firsthand the negative impact it would have. “As the area of New York that offshore drilling would most affect, it was so important that the Department of Interior hear directly from Long Islanders, at a forum here on the island, about the negative effects offshore drilling could have on Long Island’s environment, economy, and way of life,” Congressman Zeldin said during the meeting. “Even just the exploratory phase of offshore drilling would be detrimental. The seismic testing would affect fish and marine life populations and is a major concern for our environmentalists, fishermen, oyster growers, and other businesses that are part of our historic and growing seafood economy. It is so important to note one thing in particular - there is no evidence of these resources even being located off of Long Island. That alone is reason enough to take Long Island off the table.” Present today from the U.S. Department of Interior was Director of the Office of Congressional and Legislative Affairs John Tanner and Assistant Secretary of Land and Minerals Management Kate MacGregor who oversees the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM). Written comments can still be submitted at BOEM.gov until March 9, 2018.
02.28.2018	WASHINGTON - Representatives Lee Zeldin (NY-1), Jim Jordan (OH-4), Claudia Tenney (NY-22), Francis Rooney (FL-19), Matt Gaetz (FL-1), Ted Budd (NC-13), Jody Hice (GA-10), Mark Meadows (NC-11), Scott Perry (PA-4), Paul Gosar (AZ-4), Andy Harris, M.D. (MD-1), Louie Gohmert (TX-1), and Dave Brat (VA-7) sent a letter to U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions urging the appointment of a Special Counsel to investigate decisions made by and activities of the Department of Justice and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) with regards to FISA abuse, and how/why the Clinton probe ended and Trump-Russia probe began. A signed PDF of the letter is available here. Full text of the letter is as follows: February 28, 2018 The Honorable Jeff Sessions Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Attorney General Sessions, As you know, evidence has come to light that raises serious concerns about decisions and activities by leadership at the highest levels of the Department of Justice and Federal Bureau of Investigation regarding how and why the Clinton probe ended and how and why the Trump-Russia probe began. Additionally, important questions have been raised with regards to FISA warrants targeting U.S. citizen Carter Page. We write to urge you today to appoint a Special Counsel to investigate these decisions and activities. We acknowledge with immense gratitude that nearly every single man and woman in the DOJ and FBI conducts themselves daily with integrity, independence, patriotism, objectivity and commitment to the rule of law. That is why this Special Counsel is of the utmost importance to ensure that these historic, legendary and necessary agencies move forward more respected and effective than ever before. Thank you for your prompt attention to this important matter.
02.28.2018	WASHINGTON - Representatives Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) and Ted Budd (R, NC-13) introduced the Hezbollah Kingpin Designation Act (H.R. 5035), which designates Hezbollah as a Transnational Criminal Organization based on its international drug trafficking and global money laundering, which allows the U.S. Treasury Department to more aggressively target Hezbollah’s finances. In December, a POLITICO investigation revealed Hezbollah’s robust narcotics operation as detailed by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration’s (DEA) Project Cassandra, which, since 2008, has been investigating Hezbollah’s funding. “On the international stage, this legislation finally calls Hezbollah for what it is - a transnational criminal organization, one that for decades has funded their radical terrorist group by profiteering on money laundering, drug trafficking and other nefarious activities,” said Congressman Zeldin. “This legislation that I have introduced with Congressman Ted Budd puts Hezbollah and all those who do business with them on notice. The United States will no longer stand idly by as Hezbollah pumps drugs onto our streets. We will root out Hezbollah’s complicit accomplices and topple their financial support network around the world.” “Hezbollah is a known supplier of cocaine into the United States. While they claim to be a morally upright political organization in their home country, the reality is they are nothing more than drug smugglers and transnational criminals,” said Congressman Budd. “The Budd-Zeldin legislation takes important steps to acknowledge Hezbollah for what they really are-- a terrorist organization. I urge the president to use our bill as a tool to crack down on Hezbollah's illicit drug trade.”
02.27.2018	WASHINGTON - On Tuesday, February 27, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with the Congenital Heart Association, Children’s Heart Foundation, and Pediatric Congenital Heart Association, including Christina Barberi of Port Jefferson Station (far right), to discuss how Congress can support research and awareness for the 2.4 million Americans living with congenital heart disease.
02.27.2018	WASHINGTON —Representatives Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Eliot Engel (D, NY-16), and Peter King (R, NY-2) yesterday introduced the “Don’t Break up the T-Band Act,” legislation that would repeal a provision of a 2012 law to allow law-enforcement, fire officials, and EMS to continue using the T-Band spectrum to operate their radios for day-to-day life saving operations. Currently, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) is required to reallocate and auction the T-Band spectrum by 2021, which would endanger public safety communications in major metropolitan areas across the United States. The T-Band is a portion of spectrum used in 11 heavily populated metropolitan areas, covering over 90 million Americans, to support critical public safety communications (i.e. police and fire radios) and provide regional interoperability among first responders. Public safety agencies have spent numerous years and hundreds of millions of dollars of federal, state and local funds to plan and build out these T-Band networks. The result is battle-tested public safety networks that provide resilient coverage, reliability and regional interoperability. This spectrum is essential to public safety and for many public safety entities there is nowhere else to move, so Reps. Zeldin, Engel, and King have introduced the “Don’t Break Up the T-Band Act” to preserve the T-Band spectrum before it is reallocated for good. Congressman Zeldin (R, NY-1) said, “Our first responders bravely and selflessly put their lives on the line each and every day to protect our communities, and our first priority must be ensuring they have the resources they need to safely and effectively do their jobs. From hurricanes to fires, in the most dire situations, the T-band spectrum provides critical communication between first responders. Even when cell phones, internet, and electricity cease to function, T-band is the last line of defense, and selling off this spectrum would be a disservice to our nation’s first responders and the millions of Americans they serve.” Congressman Eliot Engel (D, NY-16) said, “When it comes to the T-Band spectrum, it’s a classic case of ‘if it isn’t broke, don’t fix it.’ First Responders charged with the protection of life and property – such as police, firefighters and Emergency Medical Service (EMS) providers – rely on T-Band as a vital component of their communications systems. It is a reliable and resilient network that functions in subway tunnels, underground concrete parking lots, and even deep inside large buildings where other systems routinely fail. Our bill is designed to allow first responders to continue using the T-Band spectrum to communicate effectively when saving lives and keeping us safe.” Congressman Peter King (R, NY-2) said,“This legislation allows our first responders to take advantage of emerging telecommunication technologies while still retaining their radio communications. In addition, it will remove the requirement to re-work emergency communications infrastructure which would be an overwhelming financial burden to our local governments.” NYC Mayor Bill de Blasio said, “The safety of our city depends on our use of the T Band, and taking it away would be unconscionable. The City has invested millions of dollars in ensuring our first responders can communicate in all types of emergencies, and this resource is key to our ability to keep our communities safe. I want to thank the congressional leaders who are working to protect public safety through HR 5085.” NYC Police Commissioner James P. O’Neill said, “The NYPD has significantly reduced crime and disorder in New York City due, in large part, to our ability to rapidly respond and effectively communicate. Our police officers depend on the well-engineered T-Band to keep all New Yorkers safe. This system enables the NYPD to efficiently answer more than nine million calls to 911 each year. This legislation is crucial in maintaining our ability to best protect all the people we serve.” NYC Fire Commissioner Daniel A. Nigro said, “Since September 11th, we have systematically improved radio communications for our Firefighters and EMS personnel responding to fires and medical emergencies because those transmissions can so often mean the difference between life and death. Losing the T-Band spectrum would require billions of dollars to replace existing radios and infrastructure, devastate FDNY’s operations at thousands of emergencies each day, and unnecessarily endanger the safety of every single New Yorker.” Suffolk County Fire District Officers Association President Jay Egan said, “As fire officials our first and foremost priority is protecting the Long Islanders we are sworn to serve and protect. Preserving the T-Band frequency is a critical part of allowing us to do this life-saving job in any type of emergency situation.”
02.23.2018	PATCHOGUE, N.Y. - On Friday, February 23, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) held a meeting in his Patchogue office with his Veterans Advisory Panel, a group of NY-1 veterans and veterans’ advocates. During the meeting, they were joined by Shannon O’Neill of Suffolk Community College, who discussed the Veterans’ Success on Campus Program, and Northport VA Associate Medical Director Colleen Lucker.
02.23.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, issued the following statement after the United States Department of State announced the United States Embassy in Israel will move from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem by May 14, 2018: “Jerusalem is the indisputable, undivided capital of the Jewish State, and moving the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem is an important next step in protecting Israel’s sovereignty and security. In addition to its religious importance, Jerusalem is also the location of the Israeli Knesset and offices and residences of the Israeli prime minister and president. Moving our embassy is not only the right thing to do, it sets an important precedent for other nations to follow. It would advance Israel’s diplomatic status while also serving as a symbol of American leadership. The United States has no greater ally and strategic partner than Israel and following through on our promise to move our embassy and recognize Jerusalem as Israel’s unquestionable capital reaffirms the unbreakable bond between our two nations. After decades of Presidential promises to move the embassy, I thank President Trump for following through on this important commitment.”
02.22.2018	WESTHAMPTON BEACH, N.Y. - On Thursday, February 22, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) held Mobile Office Hours at the Westhampton Beach Fire Department. During Mobile Office Hours, the Congressman met with constituents in one on one and constructive small group settings to have substantive, productive conversations regarding their concerns including school safety in light of the tragedy in Parkland, preserving Social Security and important local quality of life issues including protecting our environment and increasing access to affordable housing.
02.22.2018	BELLPORT, N.Y. - On Thursday, February 22, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited Eastern Suffolk BOCES Gary D. Bixhorn Technical Center to learn more about Hunter Shelters and STAR Mobile Battery Energy Storage System pilot program, which provides shelter, electricity and clean water during natural disaster emergencies.
02.20.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after introducing the Protecting Our Communities from Gang Violence Act, legislation that revokes naturalization for those involved in gang activity prior to or within 10 years of becoming naturalized: “From the vicious machete attack of four young men in Central Islip, to the childhood best friends brutally murdered by MS-13 in Brentwood, our community has witnessed the indiscriminate brutality of gang violence firsthand. Every level of government has a role to play in combating the rise of MS-13 and other gangs, and we must crack down on the aspects of our nation’s broken immigration system and other policies that have allowed MS-13 and other gangs to take hold in our communities and stay there. That is why I introduced this legislation to revoke the naturalization of those involved in gang activity prior to or within 10 years of becoming naturalized. United States naturalization is a privilege not a right, and those who have had this privilege bestowed upon them must respect and uphold the laws of our land.”
02.19.2018	Part 2 of a 2 Part Op-ed by Congressman Lee Zeldin In the first of this two-part op-ed, I discussed efforts to safeguard our national security, spur economic growth and combat our nation’s crippling heroin and opioid abuse epidemic. In this second op-ed, I will focus on some of the unique challenges facing New York’s First Congressional District. On Long Island and throughout our country, we have all witnessed the rise of the heroin and opioid abuse epidemic. These are our children. We must work across the aisle and use whatever means necessary to quell this epidemic that has already claimed too many young people’s lives. I was proud to cosponsor the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), which is now law, and together we must all do everything in our power inside our government, and out, to secure the necessary treatment, education, enforcement and prevention. The rise of gang violence is a major challenge we face as a nation, but for Long Islanders it is especially personal. From the vicious machete attack of four young men in Central Islip, to the childhood best friends brutally murdered by MS-13 in Brentwood, our community has witnessed the indiscriminate brutality of MS-13 firsthand. Every level of government has a role to play in combating the rise of MS-13 and other gangs, and we must crackdown on the aspects of our nation’s broken immigration system and other policies that have allowed MS-13 and other gangs to take hold in our communities and stay there. Last week, as one of many new initiatives to help the cause, I introduced legislation to revoke naturalization for individuals involved in gang activity prior to or within 10 years of becoming naturalized. United States naturalization is a privilege, and those who have had this privilege bestowed upon them must respect and uphold the laws of our land. For hardworking Long Islanders, the high cost of living is affecting so many young people’s ability to raise their families here and seniors’ ability to stay in the communities they love. Promoting an economic environment that encourages growth and good paying jobs is so important to Long Islanders struggling to keep up. It is critical that we allow entrepreneurs, small business owners, and innovators to create and attain the American dream, right here, in New York. Serving on the Financial Services Committee, I am committed to pursuing solutions on a bipartisan basis that help grow our middle class and improve the business climate on Long Island, by cutting the job killing Washington red tape that has smothered so many businesses’ ability to grow and stay local and create more good paying jobs for the hardworking families in our community. Since our nation’s founding, the agriculture industry has been such an important part of our life, economy and culture on Long Island. In 2018, Congress will have the opportunity to re-authorize a critical package of key federal agricultural programs as part of the Farm Bill. The agriculture conversation in our nation’s capital, usually dominated by big corporate farms, fails to ensure centuries old family farms, vineyards and specialty farms stay in business. From lavender farms to oyster farms and everything in between, the East End of Long Island has so much to offer and is crucial to our agritourism economy. We especially have a responsibility to support the next generation of Long Island farmers. That’s why I cosponsored the Support Young Farmers Act, which helps Long Island farmers by fostering market and economic growth and breaking down barriers that hinder the next generation of famers’ ability to feed our nation. In a district almost completely surrounded by water, we have a unique responsibility to safeguard our local environment, the hundreds of industries and businesses that rely on it and our way of life. The Long Island Sound alone supports tens of billions of dollars in economic value per year. On Long Island, our coastal economy in many respects is our economy. In Congress, I serve as co-chair of the Long Island Sound Caucus and am a member of the Bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus, Shellfish Caucus, and other efforts that understand that every American should have access to clean air and clean water. That’s why I will continue to fight for critical funding for organizations like Sea Grant, the National Estuary Program, the Long Island Sound Program and more. I will also continue to promote coastal resiliency in the next phase of the Fire Island to Montauk Project (FIMP), as well as other Army Corps of Engineers projects. This beach restoration and coastal project is essential to our communities’ local economy and environment. Since coming to Congress, I have been a stalwart advocate of Long Island fishermen, working to preserve our natural resources while reforming the flawed and outdated data used to justify regulations and quotas that are putting local fishermen out of business and killing jobs. These antiquated quotas are raising costs for fishermen, and therefore the small businesses and restaurants that depend on their reliable catch. We must leverage the Magnuson-Stevens Reauthorization to get the reforms that are so desperately needed. Hand and hand with safeguarding our environment, we must preserve the state-of-the-art research facility on Plum Island, preserving this island’s natural beauty, diverse wildlife and ecosystem, as it continues to provide important economic and environmental benefits for Long Island. The House of Representatives has once again passed my legislation to save Plum Island. We need this bill to pass the Senate in order to become law. We must also support the local science community, including Brookhaven National Laboratory, Stony Brook University and other local facilities that serve as some of the largest employers within our district. Securing funding to continue their unparalleled research greatly serves our communities and local economy. Suffolk County has one of the highest veterans populations in the entire country. As the only full-service Veterans Affairs Hospital on Long Island, so many of these veterans rely on the services, care, and medical expertise provided at the Northport site. While I believe strongly that a veteran should be able to take their veterans benefit to any provider that they wish, many rely upon the services of Northport and its satellite offices. We must provide all veterans with the highest quality care they have earned. From infrastructure upgrades to Telemedicine, it is long past time to modernize the delivery of healthcare to best serve our heroic veterans. These are just a few of the many important priorities for our great island. It is my utmost honor to be able to represent New York’s First Congressional District. It is a privilege to fight for my constituents, friends and neighbors, while serving in our nation’s capital. We will always have a lot of critical work still ahead and successes to pursue and achieve for the amazing place we all call home. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York in Congress where he services on both the House Financial Services and Foreign Affairs Committees.
02.18.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement calling for a Congressional hearing and action after law enforcement was unable to identify the indicators and threat posed by Nikolas Cruz prior to the February 14, 2018 Parkland High School mass shooting. "This tragedy could have and should have been prevented. The warning signs were there and clearly pointed to the fact this young man was extremely troubled. In light of this tragedy, it is critical Congress, law enforcement and the American public identify how Nikolas Cruz slipped through the cracks. We must prevent another such breakdown. I support law abiding citizens having the ability to possess firearms to protect themselves, their families, their loved ones and property. However, we must ensure lunatics manifesting violent criminal intentions to murder with firearms have access to none.” The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform or the Committee on the Judiciary are two of the Committees that could consider initiating this important hearing.
02.16.2018	WASHINGTON - On February 16, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with the Surfrider Foundation, an ocean conservation organization, to discuss the importance of protecting Long Island’s waterways and coastal environment. As an advocate of Long Island’s environment, the Surfrider Foundation invited Congressman Zeldin to join advocates from across the country in signing their surfboard.
02.16.2018	WASHINGTON - On Thursday, February 15, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) gave students from the State University of New York Albany, his alma mater, a behind-the-scenes night tour of the U.S Capitol during which they visited the Speaker’s Balcony and House and Senate chambers.
02.15.2018	WASHINGTON - On February 14, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with Executive Director Fred Sganga, Deputy Executive Director Jonathan Spier, Director of Adult Day Health Care Jean Brand and Associate Executive Director Paul Maguire of the Long Island State Veterans Home at Stony Brook University to discuss the importance of final passage of Congressman Zeldin’s legislation, the Adult Day Health Care Act (H.R. 1005), to expand access to care for 70% or more service-connected disabled veterans
02.14.2018	PATCHOGUE, N.Y. - On February 13, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) toured New York Life Insurance Company’s Long Island office, during which he answered questions from the company’s employees, including many NY-1 constituents, regarding the legislative priorities most important to them.
02.13.2018	WESTHAMPTON BEACH, N.Y. - On Monday, February 12, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted a Pizza and Policy Town Hall at VFW Post 5350 in Westhampton Beach where constituents had the opportunity to engage in a direct dialogue with the Congressman regarding the issues most important to them. Constituents wishing to participate in a future meeting can contact Congressman Zeldin’s office at (631) 289-1097.
02.13.2018	RIVERHEAD, N.Y. - On Monday, February 12, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted a Lunch with Lee Town Hall at Digger O'Dell's in Riverhead. During the event, the Congressman answered questions from constituents and took part in a substantive discussion on a variety of issues affecting our country and New York’s First Congressional District. Constituents wishing to participate in a future meeting can contact Congressman Zeldin’s office at (631) 289-1097.
02.13.2018	BELLPORT, N.Y. - On Monday, February 12, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted a Coffee with Your Congressman at Porters on the Lane in Bellport where constituents had the opportunity to ask the Congressman questions directly about his work in Washington and how it affects Long Island communities. Constituents wishing to participate in a future meeting can contact Congressman Zeldin’s office at (631) 289-1097.
02.09.2018	Watch Rep. Zeldin recognize Tijuana Fulford and the Butterfly Effect Project on the House Floor here. WASHINGTON - On Thursday January 8, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), spoke on the House floor to recognize NY-1 constituent Ms.Tijuana Fulford, Founder and Executive Director of the Butterfly Effect Project in Riverhead. Congressman Zeldin first met Tijuana at his December 2017 Mobile Office Hours in Riverhead during which constituents meet with Rep. Zeldin one on one or in small group settings to address questions or concerns or receive help with a federal issue without needing an appointment. After meeting with Tijuana, Congressman Zeldin, impressed by her leadership and service to the community, chose to recognize her and her efforts to support young women in the community during a speech on the House floor. “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize my constituent Ms. Tijuana Fulford, Founder and Executive Director of the Butterfly Effect Project in Riverhead. In 2014, Ms. Fulford set out to establish a free program to provide young girls with the tools they need to achieve self confident futures in hopes of bringing forth a generation of strong, independent and knowledgeable women. This program has grown from four to one hundred and eight young girls with an ever-growing waitlist. These are girls who are empowered with the resources necessary to secure a prosperous future for themselves and their families. Through financial, educational, emotional and career support, The Butterfly Effect Project is building community involvement and curtailing the effects of cultural and mobility limitations. With locations in Riverhead and Bellport, the Butterfly Effect Project is having such a positive effect on young girls from Riverhead, Flanders, Calverton, Mastic, Shirley, Bellport, Westhampton, Peconic, Patchogue and West Islip. The Butterfly Effect has provided an invaluable service to our community. I applaud Ms. Fulford for her dedication and look forward to witnessing the growth of her organization and the bright future of the so many young women it supports.” For more information about the Butterfly Effect Project, visit https://www.bepgirls.org/ or call (631) 591-0759.
02.08.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D, NY), Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D, NY), and Congresswoman Louise Slaughter (D, NY-25) were joined by a bipartisan, bicameral delegation of New York Members in sending a letter to Department of the Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke underscoring their opposition to offshore drilling off the coast of Long Island. “New oil and gas development raises the possibility of a disastrous oil spill and increases risk of exposure to toxic chemicals and metals used in offshore drilling operations,” Members wrote. “These threats to New Yorkers’ coastal industries, public health, and unique natural environments are unacceptable and should not be ignored. The long-term health of New York is inextricably linked to protecting our ocean resources.” The Department of Interior recently proposed opening 90% of the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) to energy exploration, including parts of the Atlantic Ocean. In January, Congressman Zeldin was joined by state and local officials, environmental stakeholders and business leaders at the Riverhead Aquarium to present a united front in opposition to offshore drilling off the coast of Long Island. The Congressman was joined by Assemblyman Fred Thiele, Riverhead Supervisor Laura Jens-Smith, Brookhaven Supervisor Ed Romaine, East Hampton Supervisor Peter Van Scoyoc, Southold Supervisor Scott Russell, Suffolk County Legislator Al Krupski, President and CEO of Discover Long Island Kristen Jarnegin, Citizens Campaign for the Environment, Group for the East End, Nature Conservancy on Long Island, Sierra Club of Long Island, Audubon Society of New York, and other environmental groups. A PDF of the signed letter is available here. Full text of the letter is as follows. The Honorable Ryan Zinke Secretary United States Department of the Interior 1849 C Street NW Washington, DC 20240 Dear Secretary Zinke: We write to request that New York State be exempted from consideration of new oil and gas drilling leases as part of the recently announced Draft Proposed Program for the 2019-2024 Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Program. This plan would open up two lease sales in areas of the North Atlantic coast adjacent to New York State for fossil fuel exploration. New York’s almost 2,000 miles of tidal coastline are unique and important to our economy that includes industries such as tourism, shipping, construction, fishing and living resources. According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, New York has the third largest ocean economy with 20,894 businesses, employing more than 350,000 workers, paying over $11 billion in wages, and contributing over $24 billion to the state’s gross domestic product. New oil and gas development raises the possibility of a disastrous oil spill and increases risk of exposure to toxic chemicals and metals used in offshore drilling operations. These threats to New Yorkers’ coastal industries, public health, and unique natural environments are unacceptable and should not be ignored. The long-term health of New York is inextricably linked to protecting our ocean resources. For this reason our state has invested in improving water quality, restoring aquatic ecosystems, and developing renewable energy. The Draft Proposed Program exposes our precious aquatic ecosystems to degradation and threatens our investments. Local voices across our state, including our Governor, have spoken up in opposition to this new offshore drilling plan, which we do not want and do not need. We respectfully request that local and state voices in New York seeking exemption from new oil and gas leasing be given the same consideration afforded to those in other states, such as Florida. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. Sincerely, Representative Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D, NY) Representative Louise Slaughter (D, NY-25) Senate Minority Leader Schumer (D, NY) Representative Jerrold Nadler (D, NY-10) Representative Jose Serrano (D, NY-15) Representative Joe Crowley (D, NY-14) Representative Nydia Velazquez (D, NY-7) Representative Grace Meng (D, NY-6) Representative Adriano Espaillat (D, NY-13) Representative Brian Higgins (D, NY-26) Representative John Suozzi (D, NY-3) Representative Eliot Engel (D, NY-16) Representative Paul Tonko (D, NY-20) Representative Elise Stefanik (R, NY-21) Representative Carolyn Maloney (D, NY-12) Representative Hakeem Jeffries (D, NY-8) Representative Kathleen Rice (D, NY-4) Representative Peter King (R, NY-2) Representative Gregory Meeks (D, NY-5) Representative John Katko (R, NY-24) Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (D, NY-18) Representative Yvette Clarke (D, NY-9) Representative Dan Donovan (R, NY-11) Representative John Faso (R, NY-19) Representative Nita Lowey (D, NY-17)
02.06.2018	Watch Rep. Zeldin’s remarks during the White House meeting here. WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after meeting with President Donald Trump, Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen, four other Members of Congress, and law enforcement officials at the White House, with regards to efforts to combat MS-13: “The rise of gang violence is one of the greatest challenges we face as a nation, but for Long Islanders it is especially personal. From the vicious machete attack of four young men in Central Islip, to the childhood best friends brutally murdered by MS-13 in Brentwood, our community has witnessed the indiscriminate brutality of MS-13 firsthand. Every level of government has a role to play in combating the rise of MS-13, and we must crackdown on the aspects of our nation’s broken immigration system and other policies that have allowed MS-13 and other gangs to take hold in our communities and stay there. I look forward to continuing to work with President Trump and his administration to ensure law enforcement officials on Long Island and around America are successful in their selfless efforts to protect our communities.”
02.05.2018	STONY BROOK, NY - On Saturday, February 3, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was a guest speaker at the Annual Bay Scallop Bowl, an ocean science academic competition during which 12 teams from across New York State compete to win a place at the National Ocean Sciences Bowl in Boulder, Colorado. During his speech, Congressman Zeldin spoke about local environmental priorities throughout and surrounding the First Congressional District of New York.
02.05.2018	HOLBROOK , NY - On Saturday, February 3, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined the Long Island Group Civil Air Patrol as the Guest Speaker at their 2018 Military Ball. During the ceremony, Congressman Zeldin recognized the cadet awardees and spoke about how important it is that their leadership activities continue moving into the future.
02.05.2018	LONGWOOD , NY - On Saturday, February 3, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended Longwood School District’s 14th Annual Regional Legislative Breakfast during which Congressman Zeldin and local elected officials who serve in the New York State Legislature answered questions from constituents related to education policy.
02.05.2018	RIVERHEAD, NY - On Saturday, February 3, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Suffolk County Dental Society’s Annual Give a Kid a Smile event, during which low-income children are provided free dental exams, cleanings and fluoride treatments.
02.02.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) posted the following two tweets after the declassification and public release of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence’s memo detailing FISA abuse and misconduct: “W/out dossier, there would've been no FISA warrant. Was admitted under oath by McCabe. DOJ/FBI already knew dossier's source was unreliable & shouldn't be used, but filed applic w/it anyways. Waited until after to fire Steele. Then applied for extensions on warrant anyways.” This tweet can be viewed on Twitter here. “Using secret docs in a secret court to spy must have highest safeguards to protect national sec AND civil liberties. FISA abuse is wrong. Almost all in DOJ/FBI are amazing, but the process & misconduct at highest levels here must be addressed w transparency & accountability.” This tweet can be viewed on Twitter here.
01.31.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement with regards to the Amtrak train accident that occurred today during his travel to the Annual Congressional Institute retreat with his Republican colleagues from the House and Senate: “Thank you to everyone who has reached out to check in. I am okay. It was clear upon impact that something had gone terribly wrong and I am very grateful that the train was able to stop without severely derailing. Fortunately, our amazing first responders, police officers and medical professionals, without hesitation, leaped into action with the utmost expertise and professionalism to help everyone in need of first aid. I am praying for all those injured in today’s accident and their families and loved ones.”
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON- Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) just released the following statement after the conclusion of President Trump’s first State of the Union Address: “Tonight, during his first State of the Union Address, President Trump highlighted many important accomplishments, challenges and opportunities impacting our great nation. The President discussed how our country will rise to tackle the daunting needs we still face, such as our nation’s crumbling infrastructure, heroin and opioid abuse epidemic, broken immigration system and the essential need to always protect our security at home and abroad. Our economy is growing and our national security is strong. This is certainly good news, however, tonight in the gallery sat solemn reminders of the challenges we face in our communities on Long Island. Four of the President’s distinguished guests were the parents of 15-year-old Kayla Cuevas and 16-year-old Nisa Mickens, two teenage girls who were brutally murdered at the hands of MS-13 in 2016. Extending the invitation to these grieving parents is a sign of unwavering commitment on behalf of the administration to crack down on dangerous illegal immigration, provide our law enforcement officials with the resources they need to protect our children and make our communities a safer place to live. It was an honor tonight to bring Long Islander and Smithtown resident Donato Panico as my guest. Donato is a former deli owner who, in the wake of the September 11th, 2001, terrorist attacks, drove to Ground Zero to feed first responders for 10 straight days. His dedication to our first responders spurred the creation of his foundation Heros 4 Our Heroes, which last September 11th, distributed 3,000 sandwiches to police officers, firefighters and other emergency personnel. Mr. Panico is a leader in our community and it was an honor to be able to share this experience with him. It is a privilege to serve in the United States Congress and I look forward to continuing to work with the President and my colleagues in Congress on the many important priorities affecting the greatest nation in the world.” To read more about Donato Panico, Congressman Zeldin’s State of the Union guest, click here.
01.30.2018	Watch Rep. Zeldin’s floor remarks here. WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) made the following remarks in honor of North Fork farmer Lyle Wells on the Floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to Lyle Wells whose family farm is over 350 years old. Lyle was taken from our community too soon. He was a leader, a former president of the Long Island Farm Bureau and a one time member of the Riverhead Town Planning Board. He positively led and left a great impact and legacy on the next generation of farmers who really do need to be better cultivated and given that opportunity to be able to thrive. Long Island Farm Bureau Administrative Director Rob Carpenter talking about Wells’ impact and a relationship going back decades said, ‘he would take all the time needed to explain a program to anyone who wanted to learn about farming-a legislator, a community member, another farmer. It’s a big loss. You just can’t replace a Lyle.’ It was also observed that ‘everyone would start laughing because of his style of laughter. It was the honor that he graced our community and our town. Him having gone through life in this town made the rest of us better.’ That was the positive impact of Lyle Wells. The memorial service will be held for Lyle this Thursday, February 1st, beginning at 11am on the hill at Wells’ Homestead Acres, located at 185 Phillips Lane in Aquebogue. We will pray for Lyle’s family. We are thinking about Lyle, and he will certainly be looking over what hopefully will be 350 more years of great farming on that family farm.”
01.30.2018	Watch Rep. Zeldin’s floor remarks here. WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Financial Services Committee, just issued the following statement after his bipartisan bill, the Financial Institution Living Will Improvement Act (H.R. 4292), passed the House this afternoon by a vote of 414-0: “A living will is an important tool that ensures financial institutions have a plan to wind down their assets during an economic crisis or credit crunch in order to protect their customers and the American taxpayer from being on the hook for another bank bailout. “Unfortunately, under current law, the standards that determine the approval of a financial institution’s living will are inconsistent, secretive and not publically available. The important bipartisan reforms in this bill require the standards be made public and regulators give needed feedback within 6 months. This allows financial institutions to more easily have their living wills approved by regulators, such as the FDIC and Federal Reserve. “This may sound like wonky financial policy, but to a person on Long Island trying to get a small business loan or mortgage, improving the living wills process ensures the community banks they rely on can focus on lending to their customers instead of wasting their resources complying with an arbitrary set of confusing regulations. “I thank my colleagues from across the aisle, especially Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney, for her leadership on this important legislation. Bipartisan reforms are essential, and working together we can unleash financial capital, increase economic opportunity and help all Americans attain the American dream.” Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D, NY-12), who joined Congressman Zeldin in introducing this legislation said, “This bill strengthens and improves the living wills process by implementing three common-sense reforms that were recommended by the GAO. The bill ensures that the banking regulators have enough time to properly evaluate financial institutions, living wills, and that financial institutions have enough time to ‎incorporate feedback from the regulators -- which will dramatically improve our financial crisis management capabilities by making it easier to wind down the next Lehman Brothers or AIG." The Financial Institution Living Will Improvements Act of 2017 (H.R. 4292) amends Title I of the “Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act” to reform the “living will” resolution plan submission process. The bill restricts the Federal Reserve Board and FDIC from requiring bank holding companies to submit a “living will” resolution plan more than every two years. This bill requires the Federal Reserve and FDIC to provide feedback to a submitted resolution plan within six months after a bank holding company submits. This bill also requires the Federal Reserve and FDIC to publicly disclose the assessment framework used to review the adequacy of resolution plans. The bill previously passed the House Financial Services Committee, on November 15, 2017, by a vote of 60-0.
01.29.2018	Following this evening’s House Intel Committee meeting, Rep. Zeldin spoke on the House floor about the vote. Watch here. WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement this evening after the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence voted to publicly release the classified memo detailing FISA abuse. Rep. Zeldin strongly supported this decision and urged President Trump to certify its release along with relevant sourced material in the document. Congressman Zeldin’s statement also addressed the alleged new House Democratic memo from Ranking Member Adam Schiff: “In the interest of transparency, the American people must have access to this FISA abuse memo immediately, and I applaud my colleagues on the House Intel committee for their commitment to shedding light on the gross FISA abuse detailed in this memo. Releasing this classified information will not compromise good sources and methods. It will, however, reveal the feds’ reliance on bad sources and methods. President Trump should immediately sign off on the release of this memo to the American public. With regards to the House Democrats’ call for a vote to publicly release immediately an alleged new memo by Rep. Adam Schiff, it is crucial to note that the House Democrats did not offer the majority members of the Committee any opportunity whatsoever to review this memo prior to tonight’s vote for its immediate declassification and release. I, for one, (1) haven't seen the Schiff memo; (2) have no idea what it says; (3) am not aware of it being made available to anyone in the House before now; and (5) can't confirm it even actually exists yet. The opposite is true for the FISA abuse memo that was made available to House members the week before last.” After the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence votes to release a classified memo, the President of the United States has up to 5 days to consider and certify or object to its release.
01.29.2018	PATCHOGUE, N.Y. - On Friday, January 26, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted a reception at the Patchogue Elks Lodge to announce, recognize and congratulate the 34 Long Islanders he has nominated to United States Service Academies this year. Members of Congress may nominate candidates for appointment to four of the five U.S. service academies: U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY; U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD; U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO; and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY. The fifth service academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA), New London, CT, does not require a congressional nomination for appointment. Over the past year, Congressman Zeldin worked closely with his staff and Service Academy Review Committee, a group of 17 volunteers, to narrow down the candidates based on specific criteria, including academic achievement, leadership potential, demonstration of character, and participation in extracurricular activities. The Congressman also hosted a Service Academy Information Day at Brookhaven Town Hall in June of 2017, which provided prospective students and their families with an opportunity to speak with representatives from each of the five service academies and learn more about Congressman Zeldin’s nomination application process. “These young men and women are our community’s best and brightest, and it is such an honor to nominate them to our nation’s service academies, Congressman Zeldin said. “At such a young age, they have already demonstrated their commitment to the values of hard work and dedication, and their eagerness to serve our country is inspiring. Our nation’s service academies play a vital role in training the leaders of tomorrow, and I have no doubt that these nominees will very positively shape the future of our great nation.” U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY: Gary Harris, Daniel Lord, James Pryor, Anthony Seymour, Nicholas Caccioppo, Emily Masera, Nicholas Manesis, Liam Davenport and Domenick Scaglione. U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD: Michael Daniel, Connor Kaminska, Taryn Cortes, Ralph Ruggiero, Eamon Spencer, Joseph Sauerbrun, Joseph Miller and Anthony Sciotto. U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO: Emily Bardak, Michael Palermo, Mark Tienken, Joseph Stuckart, Kyle Gerry, Brice O’Hara, Devin Perez, Anthony Locasio and Jack Hardy. U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY: Connor Toomey, Alec Kiernan, Lukas Peregoy, Russell Magnussen, Jake Mieczkowski, Brandt O’Hara, Charles Rose and Gregory Miglino.
01.27.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement commemorating Holocaust Remembrance Day: “Today, on Holocaust Remembrance Day, we reflect on the atrocity against humanity that occurred several decades ago at the hands of the worst form of evil targeting Jews and other innocent men, women and children. Ultimately, good triumphed evil, but not before millions of lives were unfathomably cut short, tearing apart families, communities and nations. As a member of the Holocaust Memorial Council, a Jewish man and a human being, my wish is, by remembering this tragedy, we learn that the silence and indifference to the suffering of others, even unwittingly, only provides undeserving protection for the inexcusable acts of others which are horribly unjust.”
01.26.2018	RIVERHEAD, N.Y. - On Friday, January 26, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) surprised local patrons of Sunny's Riverhead Diner and Grill as part of “Undercover Congressman”, during which Rep. Zeldin works local jobs to highlight the diverse occupations throughout the NY-1 community. During his visit to Sunny's Riverhead Diner and Grill, Congressman Zeldin threw on an apron, served NY-1 residents and spoke with employees and management to learn more about their business.
01.26.2018	RIVERHEAD, N.Y. - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was joined by state and local elected officials, environmental stakeholders and business leaders at the Long Island Aquarium in Riverhead to present a united front in opposition to offshore drilling off the coast of Long Island. The Congressman was joined by Assemblyman Fred Thiele, Riverhead Supervisor Laura Jens-Smith, Brookhaven Supervisor Ed Romaine, East Hampton Supervisor Peter Van Scoyoc, Southold Supervisor Scott Russell, Suffolk County Legislator Al Krupski, President and CEO of Discover Long Island Kristen Jarnegin, Citizens Campaign for the Environment, Group for the East End, Nature Conservancy on Long Island, Sierra Club of Long Island, Audubon Society of New York, and other environmental groups. The Department of Interior recently proposed opening 90% of the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) to energy exploration, including parts of the Atlantic Ocean. “Long Islanders understand that our waterways are more than just a summer weekend destination; it is essential to our way of life,” Congressman Zeldin said. “Protecting our environment goes hand in hand with protecting commerce in our region where so many jobs and small businesses depend on scenic beaches, parks and clean water to attract visitors and economic growth. That’s why, today, we requested the public comment period for this proposal be extended and that a public hearing be held here on Long Island so federal regulators understand first hand the negative impacts of this proposal. Most importantly, the proposal to permit offshore drilling off the coast of Long Island must be shelved indefinitely.” Adrienne Esposito, Executive Director of Citizens Campaign for the Environment said, “We must say no to this risky, dangerous scheme that will turn our oceans over to the oil companies and jeopardize our climate, coastlines and communities. Oil and water don’t mix. A clean, healthy, productive ocean could be lost forever. We are thrilled that Congressman Zeldin is standing up for Long Island and our oceans, and has built bipartisan support to stop offshore drilling. Our future is in renewable energy, our past is fossil fuels. We must continue to progress with offshore wind and solar farms.” Kristen Jarnagin, Discover Long Island President & CEO said, “Protecting Long Island’s $5.6 billion Tourism industry is paramount to our region’s economic future. We appreciate Congressman Zeldin’s leadership to safeguard our coastline of pristine beaches, which attracts more than nine million visitors annually and supports 100,000 local jobs.” Aaron Virgin, Vice President of Group for the East End said, “We are in strong support of Congressman Zeldin’s condemnation of offshore oil drilling off Long Island, which supports nearly 350,000 jobs and generates millions of dollars through tourism, fishing, and many recreational pursuits. Instead of doubling down on a continued dependency of fossil fuels, the Trump administration should be leading the world in promoting renewable energy sources like solar and wind.” Assemblyman Fred W. Thiele, Jr. said, "Long Island's environment and economy depend on clean oceans, bays, wetlands and beaches. All of this would be put at risk by permitting oil and gas drilling off of our coast. It is a reckless proposal which must be rejected out of hand. An oil spill off the coast of Long Island would destroy our economy and our quality of life." East Hampton Supervisor Peter Van Scoyoc said, "We welcome Congressman Zeldin's support in opposing offshore oil and gas exploration and development along the Atlantic seaboard. A single oil spill could devastate our pristine beaches, fishing industry, and local economy. East Hampton Town is dedicated to reaching a goal of 100 percent clean, renewable energy and moving away from a reliance on fossil fuels."
01.24.2018	Rep. Zeldin (middle) invites Donato Panico of Smithtown (second from left) to the President’s State of the Union address in Washington, D.C., on January 30th. Watch yesterday’s moment here. SMITHTOWN, N.Y. - On Tuesday, January 23, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) surprised former Smithtown deli owner and founder of Heros 4 Our Heroes Donato Panico, with an invitation to President Trump’s first State of the Union Address on January 30, 2018. In the aftermath of the 9/11 terrorist attacks, Donato loaded up his catering truck and drove to Ground Zero to feed search and rescue workers with sandwiches from his Smithtown deli, Panico's Community Market. He spent 10 straight days at Ground Zero, serving first responders breakfast, lunch and dinner, and sleeping in his catering truck. His tradition of giving continued, and last September 11th, he gave out over 3,000 sandwiches to firefighters, police and veterans on Long Island and NYC. This year, Donato is retiring from his deli so he can dedicate all of his time to his foundation Heros 4 Our Heroes, which is committed to feeding the brave men and women who selflessly serve Americans each and every day. “Donato Panico’s dedicated leadership, patriotism and community service have been invaluable. On September 11th, his generosity, kindness and hope illuminated even our darkest of days. His hard work and sacrifice represent the resilient spirit of our community and he has not wavered in his commitment to our nation’s first responders, police officers and firefighters,” said Congressman Zeldin. “Donato embodies the values so many across Long Island look up to, and it is my honor to attend the State of the Union address alongside someone who has sacrificed so much to better the lives of others. Donato Panico is a truly Great American!” “I never expected this! Throughout my life, I have committed myself to giving, not because I sought reward or personal acknowledgement, but to help others in their time of need,” said Donato Panico, Founder of Heros 4 Our Heroes. “This is an unbelievable honor, and I am so humbled to attend the President’s State of the Union in Washington, D.C. with my local Congressman. Thank you to all those who have helped me continue my mission of feeding our first responders, but mostly importantly thank you to our men and women in blue, our firefighters, and so many others who put their lives on the line each and every day to protect ours. Truly, they are the ones who deserve our gratitude.”
01.23.2018	SMITHTOWN, N.Y. - On Tuesday, January 23, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) held Mobile Office Hours at the Smithtown Fire Department. During Mobile Office Hours, the Congressman met with constituents one on one and in small group settings to discuss 2018 legislative priorities and assist with federal casework. Donato Panico, pictured above, met with Congressman Zeldin to discuss support for first responders and his organization Heros 4 Our Heroes. During their meeting, Mr. Panico also accepted an invitation from Congressman Zeldin to be his guest to the State of the Union on Tuesday, January 30.
01.23.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement calling for a new special counsel to investigate misconduct at highest levels of the Department of Justice and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), regarding how and why the Clinton probe ended, and the Trump-Russia probe began: "There will need to be a new Special Counsel assigned. We cannot expect the DOJ and FBI to properly investigate themselves with so much significant, mounting evidence of misconduct at the highest levels regarding how and why the Clinton probe ended and the Trump-Russia probe began." Congressman Zeldin’s statement was also posted on Twitter (@RepLeeZeldin) here.
01.22.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after it was revealed that the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) did not preserve 5 months worth of text messages between Peter Strzok and Lisa Page, two senior FBI officials whose conduct is now subject of an investigation by the Justice Department’s Inspector General. “Congress must do everything it can to recover these critical text messages, including subpoenaing Strzok and Page’s cell carriers and requesting the FBI perform a full forensic exam of their employees’ phones in an attempt to recover the messages.” Congressman Zeldin also posted his call for these follow up actions on his Twitter account (@RepLeeZeldin) here.
01.22.2018	Part 1 of a 2 Part Op-ed by Congressman Lee Zeldin Our economy has been strong and growing stronger. Our national security is in a good place, including ISIS finally getting wiped off the map in the Middle East. As the United States enters 2018 with an economy starting to rip and our physical security strong, there was no good reason at all for the federal government to shutdown last Friday evening. There will always be very important work ahead of us at any time and at this moment there are certainly many great opportunities to move our nation forward following a very unnecessary shutdown. In the last year, we have worked to create an economic environment that has spurred considerable job growth and great opportunities for American workers, with over 148,000 new jobs created in the month of December alone. However, to fully reap the benefits of this economic expansion, we need to ensure our workforce is qualified and capable of meeting this growing demand. Just one of many great ways to accomplish that will be to improve and modernize our current welfare system, incentivizing training and workforce development. We must repair our nation’s infrastructure and further address vulnerabilities and opportunities for improvement through sensible policies, including the use of more public-private partnerships to strengthen our roads, bridges and other forms of infrastructure. We also must physically secure all of our nation’s infrastructure from threats caused by terrorism and extreme weather events. National security must continue to be a paramount priority for this country, as we have witnessed so many tragedies unfold around the world. At home, this means securing our nation’s entry points and choking off the flow of illegal immigration so we know who and what are coming into our country. This also means giving our law enforcement all of the tools necessary to do their jobs as effectively as possible. Around the world, this means pursuing a stronger, more consistent foreign policy that strengthens our relationships with our allies and treats our adversaries as our adversaries while ensuring our troops have the resources they need on-the-ground to defeat terrorist groups like ISIS. Integral to our national security is ensuring Iran, with a regime calling for “death to America,” does not obtain a nuclear weapon and ceases its other bad activities. The current Iran Nuclear Deal is not a blueprint for how to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon. It is the pathway for exactly how Iran can acquire a nuclear weapon and with a jackpot of sanctions relief added on. We can no longer prop up a regime that seeks to destroy our country and our allies, destabilize the Middle East, and oppress its own people. Additionally, an increasingly rogue nation, North Korea has demonstrated a blatant disregard for international law and human life through its active pursuit of nuclear capabilities, support of assassinations on foreign soil, and other nefarious activities. We cannot afford to disregard the real and escalating threat North Korea poses to the United States and our allies around the world. However, one of our nation’s greatest threats can be bought on seemingly any street corner; the heroin and opioid abuse epidemic has claimed the lives of so many of our communities’ most promising young men and women. Drug overdoses are now the number one cause of death for Americans under 50, and any single day that Congress wastes in a government shutdown is yet another day that over 140 more Americans will die from an overdose because new progress wasn’t achieved for additional prevention, treatment and rehabilitation options. Time lost on something as simple as keeping our government open, is time lost for our nation to accomplish these goals and many more, including cybersecurity, better access to affordable healthcare and education, and improved services for our heroes who served our country in uniform. While we have made great strides, our country continues to face great challenges, and it’s time for Congress to do its job and get back to work tackling them. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York, serving on both the House Financial Services and Foreign Affairs Committees.
01.20.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (NY-1) sent a letter to Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives Phil Kiko directing him to withhold his pay until the federal government is funded. Despite a lapse in appropriations and the current government shutdown, Members of Congress still receive a salary. “It's crazy to me that Members of Congress get paid while military service members do not.” Rep. Zeldin said. “I just told the House Chief Administrative Officer to withhold my pay until the government reopens.” View a signed PDF of the letter here.
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, has just called for the immediate public release of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence classified memo made available to Members of Congress today regarding FISA abuse. Rep. Zeldin is also calling for the public release of all relevant sourced material in that document. “After reading the classified document released to Members today by the House Intel Committee regarding FISA abuse, I’m calling for its immediate public release with all relevant source material. In the interest of transparency, the American people must have access to this information immediately. Releasing this classified information will not compromise good sources and methods. It will, however, reveal the feds’ reliance on bad sources and methods.” Rep. Zeldin’s statement was also released on Twitter here and here.
01.16.2018	LONG ISLAND, N.Y. - On Monday, January 16, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke on a bipartisan panel with Congressman Tom Suozzi (D, NY-3) at the Annual Long Island Economic Survey and Opinion Poll Executive Breakfast, co-hosted by AVZ Certified Public Accountants and Long Island Business News. During the panel discussion, Congressmen Zeldin and Suozzi answered constituent questions on a wide range of issues, including tax reform, small business and economic growth, national security and combating MS-13 on Long Island.Pictured on stage in front of the audience from left to right is Representative Suozzi, Robert Quarté, CPA managing partner of AVZ, and Representative Zeldin.
01.12.2018	PATCHOGUE, N.Y. - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after Judge Denis Hurley, of the Eastern District of New York in Central Islip, rejected a motion from both the Department of Homeland Security and General Services Administration to dismiss the lawsuit filed against them in July 2016 by Save the Sound and other environmental advocates regarding the planned sale of Plum Island: “Plum Island is beloved by our local community with 90% of the land sheltered from development. Plum Island offers Long Island a diverse wildlife and ecosystem and a critical habitat for migratory birds, marine mammals, and rare plants. Plum Island is also an essential cultural and historical resource as well, with recorded history dating back to the 1700s. The current law, which mandates the sale of the island to the highest bidder, is the wrong path forward, because it does not provide for public access and permanent preservation of the island, or the continued use of the research infrastructure. The state of the art research facility at Plum Island must not go to waste, and preserving this island’s natural beauty while maintaining a research mission will continue to provide important economic and environmental benefits to Long Island. I applaud Judge Jurley’s decision to allow the lawsuit to preserve Plum Island to continue forward.” In July 2017, the House of Representatives passed Congressman Zeldin’s legislation, the Plum Island Preservation Act (H.R. 2182), which will commission the Government Accountability Office, in consultation with the Department of Homeland Security, which currently owns the island, to formulate a comprehensive plan for the future of the island. This legislation requires the plan focus on conservation, education, and research and include alternative uses for the island including a transfer of ownership to another federal agency, the state or local government, a nonprofit, or a combination thereof. Allowing for continued research, public access and permanent preservation of the island, Congressman Zeldin’s bill, H.R. 2182, will suspend laws passed in 2008 and 2011 that mandated the public sale of Plum Island by the federal government to the highest bidder.
01.12.2018	Rep. Zeldin takes a tour of the Elsie Owens Health Center following a press conference on the importance of reauthorizing and funding CHIP and Community Health Centers. CORAM, N.Y. - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was joined by local medical professionals at the Elsie Owens Health Center, a community health center in Coram, NY, for a press conference urging the reauthorization and full funding of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and Community Health Centers (CHC), ahead of next week’s January 19, 2018, federal funding deadline. Following the press conference, Rep. Zeldin took a tour of the Elsie Owens Health Center. “These essential programs provide millions of children, veterans and individuals with the health care services they need,” Congressman Zeldin said. “In New York alone, CHIP provides health insurance for 300,000 New York children, while nearly 2 million New Yorkers rely on Community Health Centers for their health care services. On behalf of the millions of New Yorkers who rely on CHIP and Community Health Centers, we must reach across the aisle and work together to preserve these vital programs.” In November 2017, the House passed a 5-year reauthorization of CHIP with bipartisan support, which the Senate failed to bring up for a vote. Last month, Congressman Zeldin led a bipartisan delegation of New York Members urging the reauthorization and full funding of CHIP and Community Health Centers: https://zeldin.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/rep-zeldin-leads-bipartisan-delegation-new-york-house-members-urging HRHCare President and CEO Anne Kauffman Nolon, MPH, said, “Congressman Zeldin has been an important advocate for CHIP and community health center funding, We thank him for being with us today, and urge other members of Congress to help preserve this funding. All New Yorkers deserve access to affordable health care.” Dr. Nadia Arif, Medical Director of the HRHCare Elsie Owens Health Center said, “Community health centers gives everyone access to the preventive care they need. Since CHIP, I have never had a parent refuse care for their child because of cost. These programs go hand-in-hand.” President & CEO of Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Medical Center Richard Margulis said, “As the leading health care provider in Central Suffolk County, we wholeheartedly support any legislation that continues to allow access to affordable healthcare for all of the members of our community. This includes the extension of funding for both the Children's Health Insurance Program and our local Federally Qualified Health Centers. Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Medical Center serves the health care needs of over 400,000 individuals in our community, many of which are uninsured and underserved by the local healthcare system. Not extending the funding for these vital programs could have a devastating effect on both our population, and BMHMC, which also faces potential cuts as a Disproportionate Share Hospital. CHIP provides affordable healthcare to many thousands of our local children while our FQHCs serve over 2-million New Yorkers. Funding for these two vital services go hand-in-hand since CHIP makes the care affordable while support the FQHCs keeps the community health centers up and running. On behalf of the entire staff at Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Medical Center, I would like to acknowledge and thank Congressman Zeldin for his efforts in working together with both parties to call attention to the reauthorization of these important programs.”
01.11.2018	Click here to watch the live discussion. WASHINGTON - On January 10th, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was joined by Congressman Josh Gottheimer (D, NJ-05) for the premiere of “Live: Lee in DC”, during which they discussed some of today’s top issues, including the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), DACA, government funding, and foreign affairs. Broadcasting from the rotunda of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C., they directly answered live questions from constituents. “Live: Lee in DC” is a Facebook Live series hosted by Congressman Lee Zeldin during which he discusses a variety of issues while in session in DC to answer constituents’ questions directly
01.10.2018	PATCHOGUE, N.Y. - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) re-introduced his legislation to assign a new, unique zip code to the hamlets of Flanders, Riverside and Northampton, within the Town of Southampton. Currently, these three hamlets share the 11901 zip code with the nearby Town of Riverhead, which has caused a number of issues for local residents. According to research initiated by the concerned residents of these hamlets, there are currently 18 identical street names and 32 similar street names - and possibly more - that are shared between these Southampton hamlets and the Town of Riverhead. This causes a number of issues in the local community and makes things very confusing for postal carriers, which leads to mail and packages being delivered to the wrong address, and sometimes even being routed as far away as Flanders, New Jersey. Furthermore, sometimes these packages aren’t able to be delivered, with packages frequently being marked as “return to sender” or “address unknown.” “While the delay of deliveries caused by sharing a zip code is a nuisance and heavily impacts residents’ quality of life, above all else, it is a safety hazard,” said Congressman Zeldin. “These packages can hold important goods like medications, which are critical for a person's health and well-being. They can also cause major problems for police, first responders, and other emergency personnel, who may arrive at the wrong address due to these shared street names with the same zip code. These kinds of mistakes can be avoided, and these problems can be alleviated by assigning a new and unique zip code to Flanders, Riverside and Northampton.” After introducing this legislation last Congress, Congressman Zeldin brought then-Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R, UT-3) to Long Island to hear directly from residents of the impacted area. In November of 2016, the House passed this legislation unanimously as part of H.R. 6303. State Senator Kenneth LaValle said, “Individuality is very important for communities. Unique Zip Codes for Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton will provide them with the distinction that they deserve. In addition, providing specific zip codes would also eliminate the misdirection of mail, speed delivery and result in more reliable delivery. I fully support efforts to provide these areas with individual zip codes.” Assemblyman Anthony H. Palumbo said, “I would like to thank the Congressman for his hard work in clarifying this longstanding confusion amongst these towns. As our East End towns become more and more populated, we need to make adjustments such as these to keep up with the growth.” Assemblyman Fred Thiele said, "Through intergovernmental cooperation, we are making great strides to revitalize the hamlets of Flanders, Northampton, and Riverside. On the state level alone, we have accomplished the repaving of Route 24, special legislation to expedite the Riverside Traffic Circle reconstruction, the approval of long requested traffic lights, the authorization of PILOT payments to reduce tax impacts, and state grants for local economic development projects. The efforts of Congressman Zeldin to obtain zip codes for these hamlets is another critical step to establish the community identity that is necessary to build a prosperous future. I applaud Congressman Zeldin's initiative." Riverhead Supervisor Laura Jens-Smith says, "I think it's important for Flanders, Northampton and Riverside to have a separate zip code, not just to cut down on the confusion for postal deliveries but to give the area its own identity" Southampton Councilwoman Christine Scalera said, “For close to 20 years, the Flanders, Riverside and Northampton communities have requested an independent zip code not only to enhance their sense of identity but to ensure the safe and timely arrival of important mail and packages. As the Town of Southampton is actively engaged in revitalizing this area, a zip code also provides the benefit of enhancing the sense of community as a hamlet within the Town.” Southampton Councilwoman Julie Lofstad said, “The people of Flanders, Riverside and Northampton need their own unique zip code. Within the Towns of Riverhead and Southampton, there are many roads that have duplicate or very similar names. Yet all currently must use the same ‘Riverhead’ zip code, even though they are actually located within two different Towns. The ensuing confusion has caused delay of important mail and medicine, and could also impact response time in emergencies. The communities of Flanders, Riverside and Northampton are in the midst of revitalization and renewal efforts which are beginning to come to fruition. A zip code of their own would reinforce and reflect the pride the community has for their hamlets, while addressing the very real concerns noted above. The community has been pursuing this change for many years, and I believe it is time for that change. On behalf of the residents of Flanders, Riverside and Northampton, I offer my thanks to Congressman Zeldin for re-introducing this legislation, and I am respectfully requesting that this initiative be supported.” Vince Taldone, Flanders, Riverside and Northampton Community Association President said, “Receiving calls from lost guests or delivery men are an inconvenience experienced by many residents of the area, but having life saving medicine delivered to the right address in the wrong town is a far more serious matter. I am grateful that Congressman Zeldin has recognized the danger to community members that this long unresolved zip code matter causes. Community members have been fighting for years to get this issue resolved and I am grateful that Congressman Zeldin has taken up the battle on our behalf.”
01.08.2018	SHOREHAM, N.Y.- On Saturday, January 6, 2018, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was a guest speaker at an Eagle Scout Court of Honor for Troop 161 of Shoreham. During the ceremony, Tyler Offutt, Ryan Doolan, Dominic Vesely, Ryan Ledda and Charles Vesely received the rank of Eagle, the highest rank in Scouting which requires years of dedication, service and leadership. These scouts truly represent the values of good citizenship and American patriotism.
01.05.2018	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after the U.S. Department of the Interior proposed opening 90% of the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) to energy exploration, including parts of the Atlantic Ocean: “I support an energy strategy that secures American energy independence and drives down costs. On Long Island, however, our waterways are our way of life, and drilling off of Long Island is unacceptable and counterproductive to the well-being of our communities.”
12.30.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement on the anti-government protests breaking out across Iran: “The Iranian people are fed up with Iran’s dictatorial regime’s brutal domestic tactics, dangerous foreign policy, and non-existent economic progress. Instead of caring for its own people, the Iranian regime has dedicated itself to maintaining its title as the world’s largest state sponsor of terror, seeking to appease domestic hardliners that keep them in power. As everyday Iranians pour into the streets outraged over their government’s misplaced priorities, the U.S. must support them in their inherent right and noble quest for a better future and free, peaceful nation. We have been down this road before. We must learn our lesson from 2009 and not repeat the same mistake. Millions of Iranians are desperate right now for American leadership to help them turn the tide in Tehran and all throughout Iran.”
12.30.2017	It was an honor to have just spent my third consecutive Christmas in the Middle East with our nation’s troops and diplomats stationed overseas. In 2015, I joined our service members in Iraq and Kuwait, and in 2016, I visited them in Afghanistan and Qatar. This past Christmas, I traveled to Afghanistan, Kuwait, and Jordan. It is not easy for our deployed men and women to spend the holiday season several thousands of miles away from home, having great family and friends missing them around the Christmas Tree or Hanukkah Menorah. For many of our deployed military and diplomatic personnel, this isn’t their first holiday season away from their loved ones. It is my highest honor to be able to personally thank all of them for their tremendous sacrifice on behalf of a very grateful nation. Serving them their Christmas Day meals, letting them know how much they are appreciated, and receiving their critical feedback from the ground, is the absolute least I can do to make sure they know how much countless Americans are thinking about them, praying for them, and filled with enormous gratitude for their incredible sacrifice. Each and every time I visit our troops abroad, I return with some of the greatest memories of my life and critical knowledge to guide my decisions throughout the halls of Congress. It is the brave men and women I have had the honor to meet over the last three Christmases that further cement my commitment to ensuring our nation’s troops have everything they need to safety and effectively do their jobs and return home. Congressman Zeldin celebrates Christmas with NY-1 resident and Marine Corporal Maria Ripis of Farmingville who is stationed at Al Jaber Airbase in Kuwait. In this year’s National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), I voted for a 2.4% pay raise for our troops, their biggest pay raise in 8 years. Additionally, this year’s NDAA included a much needed strengthening of cyber operations, funding Department of Defense (DOD) cyber operations at $8 billion, an increase of $1.7 billion from last year. Investing in cybersecurity tools ensures that our troops have the 21st century resources they need to combat ever-evolving terror threats at home and abroad. Furthermore, this year, I voted for the Make America Secure Appropriations Act, which provides a total of $658.1 billion for the DOD, including critical resources to defeat ISIS and other terrorist groups. Our nation’s servicemen and women on the ground put their lives on the line each and every day for the freedoms and liberties that make this country the greatest in the world and they deserve nothing less than our full support. However, our commitment to our troops continues after they leave the battlefield. When they return home, we must ensure they have our full support in transitioning back into civilian life. In September, I reaffirmed my commitment to ending veteran homelessness, by introducing legislation that helps decrease veteran homelessness through continued funding of the Supportive Services Veteran Families (SSVF) program. Ensuring our homeless veterans have shelter and a safe place to live should never be a partisan issue. Even one homeless veteran is too many. Throughout my time in Congress, one of my top priorities has been ensuring our nation’s disabled veterans receive the health care they have earned. In 2017, my legislation to expand care for disabled veterans on Long Island and across the country passed both the House and Senate and hopefully will soon become law. My legislation ensures disabled veterans receive the best and most efficient outpatient services to provide them with the assistance and special attention they need in their day-to-day lives, while still allowing them to maintain their independence through access to Adult Day Health Care. These programs allow veterans to lead a much more fulfilling life and helps keep families together and strong while simultaneously reducing overall health care costs for the veteran. These brave men and women answered the call to service and repeatedly put their lives at risk to support and defend our Constitution and ensure the safety and security of our country. I will never stop fighting for our nation’s veterans, our troops on-the-ground, and the families back home who eagerly await their safe return. They have earned nothing less.
12.28.2017	Congressman Zeldin celebrates Christmas with NY-1 resident and Marine Corporal Maria Ripis of Farmingville who is stationed at Al Jaber Airbase in Kuwait. View additional high resolution photos here. PATCHOGUE, N.Y. - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, returned from celebrating the holiday season with deployed U.S. service members in Afghanistan, Kuwait, and Jordan. Representative Zeldin led the bipartisan Congressional Delegation (CODEL) that also included Congressman David Cicilline (D, RI-1), Congressman Mike Coffman (R, CO-6), and Congressman Brian Fitzpatrick (R, PA-8), from December 23, 2017 to December 28, 2017. Having visited U.S. troops in Iraq and Kuwait over Christmas in December 2015 and Afghanistan and Qatar over Christmas in December 2016, this was Congressman Zeldin’s third consecutive year spending the holidays in the Middle East with deployed service members. Congressman Zeldin also participated in high level diplomatic meetings and was briefed by top military officials. “It was my highest honor to be able to personally thank all of our deployed men and women abroad for their tremendous sacrifice on behalf of a very grateful nation. It is not easy for them to spend the holiday season several thousand miles away from home having great family and friends missing them around the Christmas Tree or Hanukkah Menorah,” Congressman Zeldin said. “For many of our deployed military and diplomatic personnel, this isn’t their first holiday season away from their loved ones. Being able to serve them their Christmas Day meals, let them know how much they are appreciated, and receive their critical feedback from the ground, is the absolute least I can do to make sure they know how much countless Americans are thinking about them, praying for them, and filled with enormous gratitude for their incredible sacrifice.” Click the following links, to learn more about Congressman Zeldin’s Christmas CODEL stops in Afghanistan, Kuwait, and Jordan.
12.28.2017	Congressman Zeldin meets with Syrian refugees at the United Nations High Commission for Refugees in Amman, Jordan. Congressman Zeldin’s CODEL receives a country team brief from U.S. diplomatic leadership during a working lunch at the U.S. Embassy in Amman, Jordan. Congressman Zeldin visits with U.S. troops stationed at King Abdullah II Special Operations Training Center in Zarqa, Jordan. AMMAN, Jordan - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, traveled from Kuwait to Jordan to continue celebrating the holiday season with deployed U.S. service members, participate in several high level diplomatic and military meetings, and meet with Syrian refugees. Representative Zeldin is leading the bipartisan Congressional Delegation (CODEL) that also includes Congressman David Cicilline (D, RI-1), Congressman Mike Coffman (R, CO-6), and Congressman Brian Fitzpatrick (R, PA-8). Having visited U.S. troops in Iraq and Kuwait over Christmas in December 2015 and Afghanistan and Qatar over Christmas in December 2016, this is Congressman Zeldin’s third consecutive year spending the holidays in the Middle East with deployed U.S. service members. In addition to Jordan, Congressman Zeldin’s CODEL spent Christmas Eve and Christmas Day in Afghanistan, and the following day in Kuwait. “It is my highest honor to be able to personally thank all of our deployed men and women abroad for their tremendous sacrifice on behalf of a very grateful nation. It is not easy for them to spend the holiday season several thousand miles away from home having great family and friends missing them,” Congressman Zeldin said. “For many of our deployed military and diplomatic personnel, this isn’t their first holiday season away from their loved ones. Being able to visit our nation’s troops stationed abroad, let them know how much they are appreciated, and receive their critical feedback from the ground, is the absolute least I can do to make sure they know how much countless Americans are thinking about them, praying for them, and filled with enormous gratitude for their incredible sacrifice.” In Jordan, on December 27, 2017, Congressman Zeldin’s CODEL was briefed by U.S. diplomatic leadership at the U.S. Embassy in Amman, Jordan, and met with Syrian refugees at the United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) in Amman where they were also briefed by Acting UNHCR Representative Daniela Cicchella. Congressman Zeldin and the other Representatives then visited U.S. service members stationed at the King Abdullah II Special Operations Training Center in Zarqa, which included a large contingent of New Yorkers serving at the base. Finally, the CODEL visited deployed personnel at the Joint Training Center, also located in Zarqa. ###.
12.27.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement today after the ordered release of Patrice Nganang, a Stony Brook professor, who has been detained in Cameroon, by the Cameroonian government, since December 6, 2017: “Earlier this year, I joined my colleagues in authoring a letter to Ambassador Nikki Haley underscoring our concerns regarding the deteriorating situation in Cameroon and the Cameroonian government’s actions to undermine the equality of all citizens, especially the Anglophone minority. On December 6th, this deteriorating situation hit home with the arrest of Stony Brook Professor Patrice Nganang. Since his arrest, my office has been in contact with Stony Brook University, the State Department, and his family, and, today, his long overdue release was finally ordered. “In the face of an increasingly oppressive government, Professor Nganang has worked tirelessly for a better future for his country and family.. As Professor Nganang fights for the freedom of all Cameroonians, we fought for his. I look forward to his safe return home to his loved ones and the Stony Brook University community.”
12.26.2017	Download and view additional high resolution photos here. KUWAIT - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, departed Afghanistan for Kuwait to continue celebrating the holiday season with deployed U.S. service members and participate in several high level diplomatic and military meetings. Representative Zeldin is leading the bipartisan Congressional Delegation (CODEL) that also includes Congressman David Cicilline (D, RI-1), Congressman Mike Coffman (R, CO-6), and Congressman Brian Fitzpatrick (R, PA-8). Having visited U.S. troops in Iraq and Kuwait over Christmas in December 2015 and Afghanistan and Qatar over Christmas in December 2016, this is Congressman Zeldin’s third consecutive year spending the holidays in the Middle East with deployed U.S. service members. In addition to Kuwait, Congressman Zeldin’s CODEL spent Christmas Day in Afghanistan and is traveling to additional countries within the U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM) area of operations. Click here for yesterday’s press release. “It is my highest honor to be able to personally thank all of our deployed men and women abroad for their tremendous sacrifice on behalf of a very grateful nation. It is not easy for them to spend the holiday season several thousand miles away from home having great family and friends missing them around the Christmas Tree or Hanukkah Menorah,” Congressman Zeldin said. “For many of our deployed military and diplomatic personnel, this isn’t their first holiday season away from their loved ones. Being able to visit New Yorkers stationed abroad, let them know how much they are appreciated, and receive their critical feedback from the ground, is the absolute least I can do to make sure they know how much countless Americans are thinking about them, praying for them, and filled with enormous gratitude for their incredible sacrifice.” In Kuwait, on December 26, 2017, Congressman Zeldin’s CODEL and U.S. Ambassador to Kuwait Lawrence Silverman met at the National Assembly with Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense of Kuwait Sheikh Nasser Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Sabah and Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kuwait Sabah Al Khalid Al Sabah. Congressman Zeldin also visited Camp Arifjan where he shared a holiday lunch with deployed New Yorkers, and met with the leadership of the Combined Joint Task Force of Operation Inherent Resolve and U.S. Army Central. Afterwards, he visited Al Jaber Air Base where he joined the Marines stationed there for dinner, including several NY-1 residents, following a briefing from the Special Purpose Marine Air-Ground Task Force.
12.25.2017	View additional high resolution photos here. KABUL, Afghanistan - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, is celebrating Christmas Day in Afghanistan with deployed U.S. service members. Representative Zeldin is leading the bipartisan Congressional Delegation (CODEL) that also includes Congressman David Cicilline (D, RI-1), Congressman Mike Coffman (R, CO-6), and Congressman Brian Fitzpatrick (R, PA-8). Having visited U.S. troops in Iraq over Christmas in December 2015 and Afghanistan over Christmas in December 2016, this is Congressman Zeldin’s third consecutive year spending the holidays in the Middle East with deployed service members. In addition to Afghanistan, Congressman Zeldin’s CODEL is traveling to additional countries within the U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM) area of operations. “It is my highest honor to be able to personally thank all of our deployed men and women abroad for their tremendous sacrifice on behalf of a very grateful nation. It is not easy for them to spend the holiday season several thousand miles away from home having great family and friends missing them around the Christmas Tree or Hanukkah Menorah,” Congressman Zeldin said. “For many of our deployed military and diplomatic personnel, this isn’t their first holiday season away from their loved ones. Being able to serve them their Christmas Day meals, let them know how much they are appreciated, and receive their critical feedback from the ground, is the absolute least I can do to make sure they know how much countless Americans are thinking about them, praying for them, and filled with enormous gratitude for their incredible sacrifice.” Upon arrival to Kabul, Afghanistan, on December 24, 2017, Congressman Zeldin’s CODEL met with diplomatic and military leadership for a classified briefing followed by a Christmas Eve dinner meeting at the residence of U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan and New York native, John Bass. On Christmas Day, Congressman Zeldin met with New York service members for breakfast in Kabul at the Resolute Support Dining Hall, met with Resolute Support Commander General John W. Nicholson, Jr., visited Forward Operating Base Fenty, and served lunch to deployed troops at Forward Operating Base Gamberi. ###
12.22.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, led 23 Members of Congress in authoring a letter to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, Secretary of Defense James Mattis, and Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) Director Mike Pompeo, seeking confirmation of at least 8 reported violations of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), commonly referred to as the Iran Nuclear Deal. A signed PDF of the letter is available here. Full text of the letter is as follows: Dear Secretary Tillerson, Secretary Mattis and Director Pompeo: President Trump appropriately announced on October 13, 2017, that he would not recertify the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) as specified under the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015 (INARA, Public Law 114-17). Since the JCPOA was first implemented on January 16, 2016, the Iranian regime has violated not only the "spirit" of the agreement, but also the "letter" of the agreement, on numerous fronts. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) has acknowledged two of these JCPOA violations, in February 2016 and November 2016. In February 2016, the IAEA reported that Iran’s stock of heavy water had reached 130.9 metric tons, above the deal’s 130 metric ton cap. Again in November 2016, Iran had exceeded the heavy water allotment by 100 kilograms. After Iran’s second violation of the heavy water cap, the Joint Commission allowed Iran to store 11 metric tons of heavy water in Oman while it awaits a buyer, but never addressed the underlying intent regarding Iran’s stockpiling of the material itself. Additional violations of the letter of the JCPOA have also not been addressed. These include: Assembling additional advanced centrifuges: Annex 1, Paragraph 61 of the JCPOA states, “Iran will only engage in production of centrifuges… to meet the enrichment R&D requirements.” Yet Iran has acquired more than the necessary amount of IR-8 centrifuge rotor assemblies for R&D purposes with sixteen times more capacity than the IR-1 to enrich uranium. Exceeding IR-6 centrifuge allowance: As part of the JCPOA, an enrichment research and development plan was submitted to the IAEA that permitted roughly ten IR-6 centrifuges. Iran has assembled thirteen to fifteen IR-6 centrifuges, which should have been limited or destroyed under this plan. Conducting mechanical testing of advanced centrifuges. In violation of the JCPOA, Iran has exploited conditions governing the “quality assurance” of advanced centrifuges to conduct mechanical testing of advanced centrifuges. Attempting to acquire carbon fiber: After Implementation Day, the Iranian regime attempted to acquire carbon fiber, a key component of centrifuge production, but was subsequently denied. Iran’s Energy Organization (AEOI) had more than enough carbon fiber to replace rotors for its advanced centrifuge program. This attempt should have been considered a JCPOA violation under Annex 1, Paragraph 61. Refusing IAEA access to military sites: Under Annex 1, Paragraph 76 of the JCPOA, the IAEA can request access to military locations, such as Parchin, to verify compliance. However, the Iranian regime has made it crystal clear in no uncertain terms that access to military sites is “absolutely forbidden." Refusing IAEA access to Sharif University. Tehran rejected an IAEA request to visit Sharif University, where the regime may have pursued undeclared military nuclear activities. Ultimately, the IAEA opted to accept an Iranian explanation of its activities instead. Possessing chemically man-modified particles of natural uranium: In September 2015, Iranian officials granted limited access to IAEA inspectors at the Parchin facility. Although environmental samples revealed chemically man-modified particles of natural uranium, the IAEA did not pursue an explanation. Moreover, IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano recently stated that the agency wants Iran to fully implement the JCPOA, which by implication covers Section T of Annex I of the JCPOA, which prohibits any activities that could contribute to the development of a nuclear explosive device. Determining if Iran is in compliance with Section T, or is in fact now violating some of its conditions, remains impossible to determine without Iran providing more information to the IAEA and allowing access to Iran’s military sites. We write to inquire as to whether your respective departments and agencies possess intelligence to confirm these violations. We request to be briefed on any such intelligence as well as any plans the administration may have to respond to the violations. Thank you for your timely attention to this very important question.
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) authored a letter to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary David Shulkin, urging the Department of Veterans Affairs to develop standardized testing and treatment options and establish broader accessibility of care through increased study of the Liver Fluke parasite. “I am deeply concerned about the Liver Fluke parasite that has infected so many of our nation’s veterans, especially our brave service members who were deployed to Southeastern and Eastern Asia,” Congressman Zeldin wrote. “Preliminary reports appear to have indicated these veterans are carrying the dormant parasite Platyhelminthes, commonly known as ‘liver fluke’, which in several instances has led to the contraction of very serious, life threatening health conditions such as bile duct cancer and liver disease. I strongly urge the U.S Department of Veterans Affairs to make this a top priority, developing a plan and securing funding to test all veterans whose service exposed them to ‘liver fluke’, and to do so as soon as possible.” For signed PDF letter click here. Full text is as follows: Dear Secretary Shulkin, I am deeply concerned about the Liver Fluke parasite that has infected so many of our nation’s veterans, especially our brave service members who were deployed to Southeastern and Eastern Asia. Preliminary reports appear to have indicated these veterans are carrying the dormant parasite Platyhelminthes, commonly known as “liver fluke”, which in several instances has led to the contraction of very serious, life threatening health conditions such as bile duct cancer and liver disease. The Northport Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC), which serves the veterans of my district and the entirety of Long Island, recently conducted a first-of-its-kind study of “liver fluke” in the United States using a 50 veteran sample size. While the sample size for the study was admittedly smaller than most studies, initial results highlight a substantial need for greater study of this issue, the development of standardized treatment options, and broader accessibility of care for veterans at Veterans Affairs (VA) facilities across the country. Many veterans in my district and across the country are in need of appropriate testing and subsequent treatment. I strongly urge the U.S Department of Veterans Affairs to make this a top priority, developing a plan and securing funding to test all veterans whose service exposed them to “liver fluke”, and to do so as soon as possible. If any member of your team has any questions or feedback on this issue, please have them contact my Senior Legislative Aide, Matthew Scott, at 202-225-3826. Thank you for your continued service on behalf of America’s heroes.
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, condemned the passage of United Nations (UN) General Assembly Resolution A/RES-10/L.22, which demands the United States rescind its decision to recognize Jerusalem as Israel’s capital. Immediately following the General Assembly’s vote, Congressman Zeldin joined Congressman Doug Lamborn (R, CO-5) and other House colleagues to introduce a resolution rejecting this UN vote and reaffirming their strong support of the President’s decision to recognize Jerusalem as Israel’s capital and move the U.S. embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. On Tuesday, the United National Security Council (UNSC) voted on a resolution to withdraw President Trump’s recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. As a permanent member of the UNSC, the United States vetoed this resolution. UN General Assembly Resolution A/RES-10/L.22 was then brought before the full assembly today where it passed by a vote of 128 to 9 with 35 countries abstaining. Congressman Zeldin released the following the statement with regards to these UN actions: “The United Nations General Assembly has taken a very disappointing and audacious vote against the United States, by far the largest contributor to the UN and international global aid, for exercising its sovereign right to place its embassy wherever it deems fit. Moving the United States embassy to Jerusalem, which is in fact Israel’s capital, has been enshrined in U.S. law since Congress passed the bipartisan Jerusalem Embassy Act over two decades ago. However, while other Presidents have caved to pressure from Pro-Palestinian international actors, President Trump resolutely followed through on this long-overdue decision. Now more than ever, I applaud the strong leadership of Ambassador Haley as she tirelessly fights for our nation and its allies in a body of blindy anti-Jewish international bureaucrats. This is not only an attack on our greatest ally Israel, but an assault on the sovereignty of the US itself.”
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) led a bipartisan delegation of eight New York Members of Congress in authoring a letter to Speaker of the House Paul Ryan and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi urging full funding of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), Community Health Centers (CHC), and a delay in the implementation of Medicaid Disproportionate Share Hospitals (DSH) cuts. “These essential programs provide millions of children, veterans, and individuals with the health care services they need,” Congressman Zeldin said. “In New York alone, failure to support these programs could mean the loss of health insurance for 300,000 New York children, $800 million dollars less for safety net hospitals, and the possible elimination of care for the nearly 2 million New Yorkers who depend on Community Health Centers. On behalf of the millions of New Yorkers who rely on these vital programs, my New York colleagues and I urge full funding.” This November, the House passed the CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act (H.R. 3922), which included a 5-year reauthorization of CHIP, 2-year reauthorization of Community Health Center funding, and the elimination of the Affordable Care Act mandated DSH reductions. The Senate has not passed that legislation yet. This letter urges funding for these programs to be included as the House considers another short-term spending measure to fund the government through the end of the year, which is expected to be voted on later this week. Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was joined by Representatives Sean Patrick Maloney (D, NY-18), Peter King (R, NY-2), Thomas Suozzi (D, NY-3), John Katko (R, NY-24), Elise Stefanik (R, NY-21), Dan Donovan (R, NY-11), and Kathleen Rice (D, NY-4) in sending this letter. A PDF of the signed letter is available here. Full text of the letter is as follows: Dear Speaker Ryan and Leader Pelosi: As Congress continues to negotiate end-of-the-year legislative items, we wish to call your attention to three issues in particular, Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) funding, Community Health Center (CHC) funding and Medicaid Disproportionate Share Hospital (DSH) payment reductions. Each of these issues must be addressed in a bipartisan fashion before the end of this year in order to ensure essential care and services go uninterrupted. Without meaningful action on all three of these matters, countless New Yorkers and Americans across the nation will be negatively and unfairly impacted. Community Health Centers: Community Health Centers serve over 27 million individuals across the country, including over 300,000 of our nation’s veterans. In our home state of New York, over 60 CHC facilities provide services for roughly 2 million New York State residents. The Community Health Center Fund authorized by Congress represents 70% of CHC funding, which expired earlier this year. Without knowing whether funding will be renewed, these facilities face significant financial hardships and could cause programs to scale back the services they provide, and in some instances, staff reductions and facility closures are also being considered. In order to ensure timely funding, we respectfully request that funding for Federally Qualified Community Health Centers for a period of at least two years be passed into law before the end of the year. Medicaid Disproportionate Share Hospital (DSH) funding: In New York, safety net hospitals across the state rely upon Medicaid DSH funding. If the current Medicaid DSH cuts are not delayed, New York State safety net hospitals stand to see, on average, a 20%, or roughly $800 million cut in funding for 2018 and 2019. Without action on this issue, some of the nation’s most vulnerable populations will be unnecessarily impacted, and hospitals will be required, once again, to do more with less. To remediate this issue, we request a delay of at least two years be considered to ensure services to patients go uninterrupted. Children’s Health Insurance Program: The Children’s Health Insurance Program has been an enormously successful program responsible for dramatically reducing the volume of uninsured children across the nation. In New York State alone, over 300,000 children receive insurance through this vital program, however, the authorization for this has also expired. Congress must take immediate action in order to ensure continuous coverage for the roughly 9 million children benefiting from this program nationwide. We request that a 5 year extension of CHIP be included in any year-end measure to ensure our nation’s children receive the best care possible. While there are several important matters pending before Congress at present, these three issues are of particular importance to the state of New York. We urge you to address these matters as promptly as possible to ensure essential healthcare services are delivered.
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after voting against the Conference Report to Accompany the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1): "Getting this bill done and getting this bill done right should not have been a binary choice. My goal in this tax reform mission has always been to ensure the hard working men and women of Long Island keep more of their paycheck, reduce their cost of living, and are able to save more for retirement. Unfortunately, this bill is not the tax relief many Long Islanders had hoped for. There are many good aspects of this bill, including a necessary reduction in the corporate tax rate, but it should not be done on the backs of ANY hard working, middle income taxpayers. That was totally avoidable and I still don't understand why spending cuts couldn’t have been used as a more responsible pay for. On balance, this bill remains a geographic redistribution of wealth, taking extra money from a place like New York to pay for deeper tax cuts elsewhere. New York is a net contributor that now will be contributing even more. This bill chooses winners and losers in a way that could have and should have been avoided. While adding back in the State and Local Tax (SALT) deduction to a $10,000 cap was progress, it was not enough progress. While I support fully maintaining the SALT deduction, a better policy if a change was to be made would have been a phase down of SALT over a period of time to a level that fully protects middle income itemizers. With that being said, all New Yorkers must confront the reality that our deduction is so high because our state and local taxes are so high. ALL levels of government must work on tax relief moving forward."
12.19.2017	STONY BROOK, N.Y. - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Santa Claus, and the Fraternal Order of Police visited the Stony Brook Children’s Hospital on December 15, 2017, to visit patients and distribute teddy bears to those spending the holiday season in the hospital. “These children are the embodiment of the holiday spirit, enduring hope and light in even the darkest of moments. It was such a moving experience to be able to join them, their families, and caregivers, to celebrate the holiday season. Thank you to their parents, nurses, and doctors for all of the amazing work they do for our most vulnerable children.”
12.19.2017	RIVERHEAD, NY - On Monday, December 18, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) held Mobile Office Hours at the Riverhead Volunteer Fire Department. During Mobile Office Hours, the Congressman met with constituents in one on one and constructive small group settings to have substantive, productive conversations regarding their concerns and the issues most affecting our communities, including tax reform, immigration, and veterans issues.
12.18.2017	Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) surprised several NY-1 constituents at Cumberland Farms in Manorville as part of “Undercover Congressman”, during which Rep. Zeldin works local jobs to highlight the diverse occupations through the NY-1 community. During his visit to Cumberland Farms, Congressman Zeldin went behind the counter to serve NY-1 residents and met with Cumberland Farms employees and management to discuss the store’s operations.
12.18.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Congresswoman Mia Love (R, UT-4) and Congressman John Ratcliffe (R, TX-4) authored a letter submitted this morning to Speaker of the House Paul Ryan and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi detailing their serious concerns with the improper public communication of information by Members of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI) investigation into the alleged Russian meddling in the 2016 election. Representatives Zeldin, Love, and Ratcliffe called for an inquiry into this matter and wrote that any Members or staff responsible for violating rules by improperly releasing communications to the media must be removed from this investigation. “We write to you to address serious concerns regarding the integrity of investigations currently being undertaken by the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI). Improper release of information to the media by committee members or staff is a serious violation of committee and House rules,” Members wrote. “Significant evidence that serious leaks have occurred in relation to the HPSCI investigation into alleged Russian meddling of the 2016 election must be immediately addressed. Members or staff who may have violated rules by leaking sensitive information to the press or other outside entities must be promptly removed from this investigation and proper inquiries undertaken without delay.” A signed PDF of the letter is available here. Full text of the letter is as follows: Dear Speaker Ryan and Leader Pelosi, We write to you to address serious concerns regarding the integrity of investigations currently being undertaken by the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI). Improper release of information to the media by committee members or staff is a serious violation of committee and House rules. Significant evidence that serious leaks have occurred in relation to the HPSCI investigation into alleged Russian meddling in the 2016 election must be immediately addressed. Members or staff who may have violated rules by leaking sensitive information to the press or other outside entities must be promptly removed from this investigation and proper inquiries undertaken without delay. Our serious concerns center around but are not limited to the leaks of privileged information by HPSCI members and/or staff to the press regarding an interview of Donald Trump, Jr. that took place on December 6, 2017. Under committee and House rules, the details of this non-public interview were not to be released publicly unless the committee voted to do so. Even with such a vote, the rules still allow for a witness and his or her counsel to review the transcript before public release. On December 7, as the committee’s eight hour interview of Donald Trump, Jr. was still underway, information from this closed session of the committee was clearly being leaked to the press. This is evidenced in multiple tweets and online articles that contained privileged information that only members or staff present for the interview would have been privy to. The leaking of privileged information continued after the interview had concluded. These serious violations need to be investigated and any members responsible for such violations must no longer serve as part of this investigation. Any staff who have violated committee or House rules must also face appropriate disciplinary action. The integrity of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence is of critical importance to the whole House and to the nation we are all tasked with serving. Your immediate attention to this matter is needed to ensure that the credibility of this body is not at risk as it undertakes investigations and handles sensitive issues of importance to the United States. We thank you in advance for your prompt reply.
12.15.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after the release of the final Conference Report of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1), which is expected to be voted on as early as next week: "I am a NO on the final tax reform bill. Getting this bill done and getting this bill done right should not have been a binary choice. My goal in this tax reform mission has always been to ensure that the hard working men and women of Long Island keep more of their paycheck, reduce their cost of living, and are able to save more for retirement. Unfortunately, this bill is not the tax relief that was expected. I like many aspects of this final agreement, including the expansion of the Medical Expense Deduction, preservation of critical education and student deductions, and strong corporate tax reform that will stimulate job creation and make America more competitive in the global economy. Reducing the corporate tax rate to 21%, for example, is great, but it should not be done on the backs of ANY hard working, middle income taxpayers. I still don't understand why spending cuts couldn’t have been used as a more responsible pay for. On balance, this bill remains a geographic redistribution of wealth, taking extra money from a place like New York to pay for deeper tax cuts elsewhere. New York is a net contributor that now will be contributing even more. This bill chooses winners and losers in a way that could have and should have been avoided. While adding back in the State and Local Tax (SALT) deduction to a $10,000 cap was progress, it was not enough progress. While I support fully maintaining the SALT deduction, a better policy if a change was to be made would have been a phase down of SALT over a period of time to a level that fully protects middle income itemizers. With that being said, we must realize that our deduction is so high because our state and local taxes are so high, which means that ALL levels of government must work on tax relief moving forward. I wish I could get to a YES on this bill, but when it comes to my district and my state, this proposal leaves too many people out in the cold. There was a massive missed opportunity here to fix this bill for millions of Americans who also desperately needed tax relief and ended up getting screwed by the handicap of rigid ideological blinders and a countdown clock that really wasn't yet at zero." ###
12.11.2017	Taylor Force was a U.S. Army veteran and graduate of West Point. He served our nation in Iraq and Afghanistan and then was brutally murdered by a Palestinian terrorist during an educational tour to Israel in March of 2016. Taylor’s family is just one of the many American and Israeli families who have been robbed of a loved one at the hands of these Palestinian terrorists. In fact, the Palestinian Authority (PA) incites and rewards this type of violence against innocent Americans and Israelis. The PA, which receives U.S. taxpayer funding, calls their terrorists “martyrs”. They give them burials as if they were heads of state and financially rewards these terrorists for their horrific acts; terrorists just like the one who murdered Taylor Force. Taylor Force lives on in the hearts of his family, friends, and fellow Americans who will never forget the sacrifice he made for our nation, and, last week, Taylor’s legacy was further cemented as the House unanimously passed the Taylor Force Act. It has been an honor to be the original cosponsor of this legislation. The values that inspired the Taylor Force Act are the same values that drove Taylor Force to sign up for the United States Military Academy at West Point, to deploy into combat, and to risk everything to protect his country, our flag, and the ideals it represents. The values of the Palestinian Authority incite violence, reward terrorism, and inspire hate. In stark contrast, Taylor Force embodied the values of our great nation - service, commitment, and the willingness to sacrifice for what we know is right. Taylor’s legacy is already affecting a change in policy, and as his parents looked on from the House Gallery as we passed the Taylor Force Act, I think the only person who may have been more proud would be Taylor himself. The Taylor Force Act withholds economic assistance to the Palestinian Authority until it publicly condemns these acts of violence and stops inciting and rewarding the terrorists who perpetrate these horrific crimes, therefore protecting the innocent Americans and Israelis who are targeted each and every day. These terrorists should not be celebrated or financially rewarded, especially not with U.S. tax dollars. We must stand in solidarity with Taylor Force, his family, and the many other American and Israeli families who have been impacted, by better leveraging every resource we have, including the power of the purse, to hold the Palestinians accountable for their abhorrent support of the murder of innocent Americans. Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Co-Chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, and the original co-sponsor of the Taylor Force Act.
12.11.2017	PATCHOGUE, N.Y. - Today, U.S. Representative Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement following this morning’s attempted terrorist attack in New York City: “This morning’s cowardly terrorist attack was another failed attempt to strike at the heart of the freedoms and liberties that make our country the greatest in the world. Once again, we are reminded of the evil that exists in our world and the radicalized terrorists who seek to destroy lives, communities, and nations across the globe, but as we have seen time and time again, this attack will only make New Yorkers and Americans stronger. The finest and bravest law enforcement officers on earth are right here in New York and the greatest military ever stands ready at the tip of the spear. I have every faith that they will do absolutely everything they can to accurately identify and eradicate this threat and protect our way of life.”
12.07.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, and one of only two Jewish Republicans in Congress, authored a letter signed by 22 Members of Congress to United States Ambassador to the United Nations (UN) Nikki Haley detailing their deep concerns with “the UN Development Assistance Framework for the State of Palestine.” “Once again, Israel is being singled out for vilification. This misguided agreement fails to take into account the Palestinians’ continued blatant disregard for international law, rampant human rights violations, and financial support of terrorists who murder innocent Americans and Israelis,” Congressman Zeldin said. “This agreement is a slush fund of taxpayer dollars used to provide politicized tools to target Israel. Israel is a beacon of liberty and freedom in the trenches of an otherwise dark region of our world. We, as a nation, must do everything we can to protect our ally and the Israeli people from these disparaging, divisive, and dangerous assaults that threaten both their national security and our own.“ The United Nations Special Coordinator for the Middle East Peace Process issued a proposal with the Palestinians outlining a strategic assistance framework from 2018-2022 for $1.3 billion. This framework would provide “international accountability mechanisms” to hold Israel accountable for alleged violations of international law and develop programs to advance the prospect of Palestinian statehood. This document fails to mention the list of Palestinian violations under international law, including rampant human rights abuses, inciting violence, financially rewarding terrorism, and squandering aid to the Palestinian Authority. A signed PDF of the letter is available here.
12.07.2017	PATCHOGUE, NY - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin announced Newfield High School students Syreneti DeLaCruz and Daniel Iacobacci as the winners of this year’s Congressional App Challenge. DeLaCruz and Iacobacci designed and created an application that helps students track school schedules and extracurricular meetings as well as view lunch menus and monitor their meal balance. “STEM, coding, and computer sciences are vitally important fields of study for students of the 21st century, educating and preparing our youth for good paying jobs that contribute to the growth of our economy,” Congressman Zeldin said. “I am proud to announce Syreneti DeLaCruz and Daniel Iacobacci as the NY-1 winners of the 2017 Congressional App Challenge. These bright students are two outstanding, promising young minds in our community.” The Congressional App Challenge is a public effort to encourage students to participate in and learn more about the fields of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM), coding, and computer science education. This annual competition is open to high school students in each Congressional District throughout the nation. Winners of the competition are invited to attend the #HouseOfCode DC reception and each receive $250 in Amazon Web Services Credits. Additionally, winning apps are eligible to be displayed in the US Capitol Building and featured on www.House.gov.
12.06.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, issued the following statement after President Trump announced formal recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel: “I applaud President Trump on his decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of the State of Israel. I strongly believe Jerusalem is the indisputable, undivided capital of the Jewish State. Moving the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem is an important next step in protecting Israel’s sovereignty and security and strengthening the bond between our two nations. The U.S. has no greater ally and strategic partner than Israel. As the center of the Israeli government, as well as the nation’s unquestionable capital, it is absolutely imperative that this move is initiated and completed in earnest.”
12.05.2017	Watch Rep. Zeldin’s floor speech here. WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and co-chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, issued the following statement after the House unanimously passed the Taylor Force Act this afternoon (H.R. 1164): “Taylor Force was a U.S. Army veteran and graduate of West Point, a very promising young man who was brutally murdered by a Palestinian terrorist. In fact, the Palestinian Authority incites this type of violence and financially rewards the families of these terrorists, just like the one who murdered Taylor. The Taylor Force Act withholds economic assistance to the Palestinian Authority until it publicly condemns these acts of violence and stops inciting and rewarding terrorism. Terrorists who murder innocent Americans and Israelis should not be celebrated or financially rewarded, especially not with U.S. tax dollars. It was an honor to introduce this legislation with Congressman Doug Lamborn of Colorado and work closely with Taylor’s parents, Stuart and Robbi. I’m also very grateful for the bipartisan efforts and support of Chairman Ed Royce and Ranking Member Eliot Engel of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.” The Taylor Force Act (H.R. 1164) prevents American foreign aid from funding the Palestinian Authority (PA) unless the Secretary of State certifies that the PA has taken credible steps to end acts of violence against United States and Israeli citizens, publicly condemns such acts of violence, terminates payments for acts of terrorism against the U.S. and revokes any law authorizing this payment system.
12.05.2017	WASHINGTON - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, issued the following statement in strong support of the anticipated decision by President Trump to recognize Jerusalem tomorrow as the capital of Israel: “Jerusalem should be fully recognized as the indisputable, undivided capital of the Jewish State of Israel. As the permanent location of the Israeli Knesset and offices and residences of the Israeli Prime Minister and President, and for countless other reasons, the fact is that Jerusalem is the capital of Israel. Moving the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem would be an important next step in protecting Israel’s sovereignty and security and strengthening the bond between our two nations. The U.S. has no greater ally and strategic partner than Israel. As the center of the Israeli government, as well as the nation’s unquestionable capital, it is absolutely imperative that this move is initiated and completed in earnest.”
12.04.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement after the United States Supreme Court allowed President Trump’s executive order halting entry from eight countries to take effect: “We all have sympathy and compassion for the innocent immigrant who is looking to come to America to pursue the American dream and build a better life for themself and their family, but our first and foremost responsibility must be to protect our national security. Even the prior administration acknowledged serious flaws in our nation’s ability to vet individuals from certain foreign countries. The American people deserve nothing less than the confidence of knowing that any individual granted admission into our nation does not pose a threat to our security. As we improve our nation’s vetting process in an effort to sufficiently maintain the highest and most proper level of scrutiny, our homeland security must always remain our utmost goal.” ###
12.04.2017	Rep. Zeldin announces $2.04 million in grants for local governments and community groups to improve the health and vitality of the Long Island Sound. PATCHOGUE, N.Y. - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), co-chair of the Long Island Sound Caucus and founding member of the Congressional Estuary Caucus, was joined by EPA Regional Administrator Pete Lopez, New York State Department of Environmental Conservation Regional Director Carrie Meek Gallagher, National Fish and Wildlife Foundation Northeast Regional Director Amanda Bassow, and others, to announce 31 grants, totaling $2.04 million, that will be awarded to local governments and community groups. The grants will support projects that will continue to improve water quality, restore natural habitats, enhance living resources, and educate and involve the public in protecting and restoring the Long Island Sound. “The Long Island Sound is a precious feature of our life, culture, and economy, one that affects the livelihoods of all Long Islanders, as well as our local recreation and tourism industries,” Congressman Zeldin said, “Protecting and restoring this critical waterway, which has suffered from pollution and overdevelopment for too many years, is so important to improving our area’s water quality, restoring our area’s natural habitats, and improving Long Islanders’ quality of life. These grants, totaling $2.04 million, are a critical component of preserving the Long Island Sound for generations to come.” “Throughout my career in public service, I have seen time and again how effective local actions can be in solving daunting problems,” said Regional Administrator Lopez. “Engaging the people who are most connected to the Long Island Sound is the most effective way to work toward the Sound’s recovery – evidenced by the tremendous success we have already enjoyed in restoring this world-famous jewel.” “One of the greatest environmental challenges facing our nation and its communities is the protection and restoration of highly productive estuaries,” said Jeff Trandahl, Executive Director and CEO, NFWF. “This year, funded projects will help youth become stewards of the outdoors and introduce them to wildlife in their schoolyards. Additionally, work will help restore the health of our rivers, coastal marshes, forests and grasslands for the benefit of fish and wildlife and to enhance the strength of coastal communities." “The Long Island Sound Futures Fund has effectively leveraged $50 million to accelerate implementation of the most innovative, sustainable and cost-effective strategies for improving water quality and protecting vital habitats throughout the Long Island Sound watershed,” said DEC Commissioner Basil Seggos. “This funding complements key local projects supporting the Long Island Nitrogen Action Plan and Governor Cuomo’s aggressive actions to restore and protect this vital ecosystem.” Since coming to Congress, Congressman Zeldin has been instrumental in securing the resources and funding needed for these vital programs to continue protecting and preserving the Long Island Sound. Earlier this year, he secured $26.5 million for the National Estuary Program and a doubling of the Long Island Sound program to $8 million. The $2.04 million in grant funding announced today will treat 439,000 gallons of water runoff, reducing more than 15,600 pounds of nitrogen and collecting 2,800 pounds of floating trash.
11.30.2017	Watch Rep. Zeldin’s Floor speech here. WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, detailed recently released Obama administration withheld key documents, regarding Iran and Al Qaeda, that would have eroded support for the Iran Nuclear Deal. During the May 2011 raid on Osama bin Laden's compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan, nearly 470,000 documents were recovered. These documents provide in-depth insight into Al Qaeda’s operational relationships in the region and detail how Iran offered training, money, and arms to Al Qaeda and others if they attacked U.S. interests. On November 1, 2017, the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), in accordance with the 2014 Intelligence Authorization Act, released these documents to the public. The following are Congressman Zeldin’s House Floor remarks as prepared for delivery this morning: Mr. Speaker, the Trump Administration recently made the important decision to release hundreds of thousands of documents in the possession of the CIA, which were found in the May 2011 raid on Osama bin Laden's compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan. These documents reveal a much more intimate relationship between Iran and Al Qaeda than previously suspected. While it will take time to analyze the extent of the 470,000 documents, some important conclusions can already be made. The Obama administration selectively released 571 of these documents during his term, none of which identified the significant relationship between Al Qaeda and Iran. While President Obama claimed Al Qaeda was “on the path to defeat,” these documents showcase Al Qaeda strategically reorganizing its operational base. One of these documents describes Iran as Al Qaeda’s “main artery for funds, personnel and communications,” and instructs members to “refrain from attacking Iran and devote your total resources … to the fight against the crusaders and the apostates.” On the one hand, Al Qaeda would publicly declare all Shi’ites to be apostates, on the other hand, internal deliberations by the organization called for a transactional relationship with the Mullahs of Tehran. Another finding in a 19 page document written by senior Al Qaeda operative Abu Hafs al-Mauritani outlines a detailed arrangement between Al Qaeda and Iran. The relationship between Al Qaeda and Iran was based on their mutual hatred towards the United States. Iran agreed to provide shelter, financial support and coordinate efforts with Al Qaeda across the region. In this document, a senior Al Qaeda operative confirms that Iran and Al Qaeda’s “interests intersect.” He goes so far as to describe the Iranian regime as, “the best ex­ample… of pragmatism in politics. Anyone who wants to strike Amer­ica, Iran is ready to support them with money and arms and all that is required as long as they are not directly and clearly implicated.” Iran offered Al Qaeda everything it needed, including “money, arms” and “training in Hezbollah camps in Lebanon, in exchange for attacking US interests in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf.” Al Qaeda operatives were safeguarded in Iran with the consent of the Iranian military. In fact, the 911 commission report confirms that eight out of the 14 hijackers passed through Iran during the period from October 2000 to February 2001. Iranian intelligence facilitated the travel of some operatives with visas, while sheltering others. In these documents, there is even a wedding video of bin Laden’s son with Al Qaeda members in attendance in, you guessed it, Iran. As Sun Tzu famously said in the Art of War, “The enemy of my enemy is my friend.” We are their shared enemy. It is shameful that the Obama Administration deliberately withheld this information. If these files, exposing Iran’s outreach and association with Al Qaeda had been released, support for the Iran nuclear deal would have even further eroded, rightfully so. Since the JCPOA was entered into, Iranian aggression in the Middle East, including Iraq, Syria, and elsewhere, has only increased. These bad activities have only gotten worse, and now it is even clearer why that is. Any terrorist group that wants to attack U.S interests will have Iran’s financial and material support. By providing Iran with $150 billion in sanctions relief, we are giving Iran the resources it needs to carry out its bad activities threatening the United States and our allies. While we already know of Iran’s close ties with Hezbollah and political influence in Iraq, these documents exhibit the extensive reach Iran has in the region. Keeping these documents hidden from the general public while the JCPOA was being debated and approved was blatant politicization of intelligence and totally reprehensible. Thankfully the current Administration has released these documents to let the American public know the truth. I commend the CIA director, our former colleague here in the House, Mike Pompeo, who has hit the ground running as the new CIA Director and made the bold decision to release these 470,000 documents for the American public and world to see. Now we can know the truth of the relationship that absolutely existed between Iran and Al Qaeda. I encourage my colleagues to view these documents. I encourage the media to view these documents for the American public and the international community, and I thank again the administration for their leadership in this very important decision. I yield back.
11.28.2017	Left to right: Rep. King (NY-2), Rep. Zeldin (NY-1), Rep. Suozzi (NY-3). HAUPPAUGE, N.Y. - Today, U.S. Representatives Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Peter King (R, NY-2), and Tom Suozzi (D, NY-3) were joined by state and local officials and area businesses at the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in Hauppauge, NY, for a press conference highlighting their concerns with the current version of the GOP tax reform plan and outlining ways to improve the legislation. “My goal in this tax reform mission has always been to ensure the hardworking men and women of Long Island keep more of their paycheck, reduce their cost of living, and are able to save more for retirement. While I like many aspects of this tax reform plan, too many Long Islanders would not see the tax relief they desperately need and deserve,” Congressman Zeldin said after the press conference. “This fight is not over. While the reinstatement of the property tax deduction to $10,000 was progress, it was not enough progress. I will continue to fight hard to improve this bill as much as possible.” "By eliminating deductions for local and state taxes the tax reform plan will have a devastating effect on New York,” Congressman King said. “We give far more to Washington then we get back. For every dollar we give, we get $.79 back. That’s a $48 billion shortfall and hurts our middle class Long Islanders" "Eliminating the state and local tax deduction would be devastating for the over 250,000 hard-working families in my district who rely on it,” said Congressman Suozzi. “I’m fighting this tooth and nail on behalf of middle class families that deserve better and who can't afford to be subjected to this draconian tax increase." "I am always pleased when our political parties are working together,” said James Skidmore, GM and Co-Owner of Toast Coffeehouse in Patchogue and President of the Patchogue Chamber of Commerce. “As Chamber President and a small business owner, this tax plan hinders our opportunity to pay a fair wage and expand and grow our businesses. Both opportunities are necessary to improve the quality of life for all Long Islanders.” Also in attendance were: Suffolk County Comptroller John Kennedy State Senator Tom Croci State Assemblyman Andrew Raia Brookhaven Supervisor Ed Romaine Smithtown Councilwoman Lisa Inzerillo Islip Councilman Steve Flotteron Islip Councilwoman Trish Bergin Weichbrodt Gina Coletti, Co-Chair of the Suffolk County Alliance of Chambers David Kennedy, Vice-President of the Patchogue Chamber of Commerce Tony Tanzi, President of the Kings Park Chamber of Commerce Steven Ringel, Executive Director of the East Hampton Chamber of Commerce ###
11.22.2017	PATCHOGUE, N.Y. - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after President Trump relisted North Korea as a state sponsor of terror: “An increasingly rogue nation, North Korea has demonstrated a blatant disregard for international law and human life through its active pursuit of nuclear capabilities, support of assassinations on foreign soil, and other nefarious activities. We cannot afford to disregard the real and escalating threat North Korea poses to the United States and our allies around the world. The President’s redesignation of North Korea as a state sponsor of terror is critical to ensuring the U.S. has the resources it needs to apply effective diplomatic and economic pressure on Pyongyang that protects America's security at home and abroad.” In 1988, North Korea was added to the state sponsors of terrorism list following the 1987 bombing of South Korean Air Flight 858, but was removed in 2008 amid nuclear negotiations by President George W. Bush. Since its removal, North Korea has launched cyber attacks against civilian targets, supported assassinations on foreign soil, sold arms to terrorist organizations, and consistently tested intercontinental ballistic missiles. This year, American student Otto Warmbier was brutally tortured at the hands of Kim Jong Un’s regime which resulted in Warmbier’s eventual death. President Trump today redesignated North Korea as a state sponsor of terror. ###
11.20.2017	MANORVILLE, N.Y. - On Friday, November 17, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted a Pizza and Policy meeting at the Peconic River Sportsman’s Club, during which constituents had the opportunity to engage in a direct dialogue with the Congressman regarding the issues most important to them, including tax reform and other topics of interest.
11.20.2017	SMITHTOWN, N.Y. - On Friday, November 17, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted a Lunch with Lee Town Hall at Sundried Tomato Cafe in Nesconset, during which the Congressman answered questions and took part in a substantive discussion on a variety of issues from tax reform to health care.
11.20.2017	BELLPORT, N.Y. - On Friday, November 17, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted a Coffee with Your Congressman Town Hall at the Royal Oak Diner in Bellport. Among other topics, during the event, constituents had the opportunity to have an in-depth discussion with the Congressman regarding the current tax reform plan, his opposition to the bill in its current form, and how he is working to improve the legislation.
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement after voting against the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1): “My goal in this tax reform mission has always been to ensure that the hardworking men and women of Long Island keep more of their paycheck, reduce their cost of living, and be able to save more for retirement. While I like many aspects of this tax reform plan, too many of my constituents would not see tax relief under this plan as it is currently drafted. Adding back in the property tax deduction up to $10,000 was progress, but not enough progress. This fight is not over. I look forward to continuing negotiations to improve this proposal for my constituents. If I’m not fighting for my home state and my home district, I cannot expect another Member of Congress from some other state to do that for me.”
11.16.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, announced yesterday that the Taylor Force Act (H.R.1164/S.1697) has passed out of the House Foreign Affairs Committee on a unanimous bipartisan vote. Congressman Zeldin is the original cosponsor of this legislation. The Taylor Force Act will prevent American foreign aid from funding the Palestinian Authority (PA) unless the Secretary of State certifies that the PA has taken credible steps to end acts of violence against United States and Israeli citizens, publicly condemns such acts of violence, terminates payments for acts of terrorism against the U.S. and revokes any law authorizing this payment system. Congressman Zeldin said, “I am proud to be an original cosponsor of the Taylor Force Act, introduced by Congressman Doug Lamborn, which would withhold economic assistance to the Palestinian Authority until it publicly condemns acts of violence against American and Israeli citizens and has stopped financially rewarding terrorism. Palestinian terrorists who murder innocent Americans and Israelis are not martyrs and their cowardice should certainly not be celebrated or financially rewarded, especially with United States tax dollars.” This legislation is named after Taylor Force, a U.S. Army veteran and graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point who was brutally murdered by a Palestinian terrorist during an educational tour in Israel in March of 2016. The Palestinian Authority’s payment to the families of the dead terrorists is anchored in a series of Palestinian laws. The Senate Committee on Foreign Relations previously passed the Taylor Force Act on September 9, 2017, and this legislation now awaits floor action in both chambers
11.15.2017	Washington, DC - On Tuesday, November 14, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with several NY-1 members of the Citizens Climate Lobby (CCL) in the U.S. Capitol. During the meeting, they discussed efforts to expand the Bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus, which Rep. Zeldin is a member of. Rep. Zeldin is pictured above with the members of CCL.
11.15.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Financial Services Committee, announced today that his bipartisan bill with Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D, NY-12), the NFIP Policyholder Protection Act (H.R. 2868), passed the House of Representatives as part of the 21st Century Flood Reform Act (HR 2874), a major flood insurance reauthorization and reform package. The NFIP Policyholder Protection Act would provide a credit to homeowners with NFIP policies who invest in mitigation activities, such as elevating their homes, adding porous foundations, or moving boilers to a higher floor. This credit would result in lower premiums and help reduce the cost to homeowners. Among other provisions, the bill also requires FEMA to better cover co-op units within NFIP. Congressman Zeldin said, “Homeowners who do the right thing and invest in mitigation activities deserve a strong return on their investment in the form of lower NFIP premiums. The NFIP Policyholder Protection Act puts preparedness first by rewarding flood insurance policyholders who elevate their homes or undertake other mitigation activities to reduce their flood risk and protect their property. On Long Island, protecting life and property from flood damage is a top priority. I look forward to working with all of my colleagues in Congress to get this bill passed in the Senate and sent to the President’s desk without delay. I am also thankful for the strong bipartisan teamwork of Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney, and for the leadership of Chairman Jeb Hensarling and Chairman Sean Duffy on this important legislation.” H.R. 2868, the NFIP Policyholder Protection Act, received widespread local support when it passed out of committee in June. “Super Storm Sandy served as a devastating reminder of how vulnerable Long Islanders are to nature’s fury,” said Brookhaven Town Supervisor Ed Romaine. “Congressman Zeldin’s legislation, which I strongly support, is in the best interest of homeowners who do the right thing by taking steps to protect their homes and property. I urge Congress to follow his lead and move this forward before the next major weather event brings more flooding to our shoreline communities.” Paul Pontieri, Mayor of the Village of Patchogue, said, “As a waterfront community many residents of Patchogue Village, like many others on Long Island, suffered severe damage on their homes. Unfortunately even after the storm passed the suffering continued with the reconstruction of their homes and the prospect of extremely high insurance rates. Congressman Zeldin's legislation offers the needed relief these families need to continue to live their lives in the communities they love.” New York City’s Chief Resilience Officer Dan Zarrilli said, “New York City is pleased to see proposed legislation that emphasizes feasible mitigation options for the types of buildings that are built in dense urban environments. These mitigation options will enable homeowners and businesses to reduce their flood risk in an affordable way, which is necessary to enhance resiliency in cities across the nation." The NFIP Policyholder Protection Act has received strong bipartisan support from elected officials in New York and is also supported by 16 organizations, including the National Multifamily Housing Council, National Wildlife Federation, and American Consumer Institute.
11.13.2017	With seven brackets and countless rules, the United States tax code is broken and desperately in need of repair to work better for the American worker. This overcomplicated and confusing maze has made our nation uncompetitive globally with companies, jobs and liquidity moving abroad. We need bold, pro-growth reform that improves our business climate, creates more good paying, private sector jobs, and allows every hardworking American to keep more of their well earned paycheck. Anyone who has ever filled out a tax form knows that the entire system is a convoluted mess that needs to be simplified. On top of this, the structure allows for special interest breaks while the average American family struggles just to make ends meet. The goal should be for more hardworking families to actually see the fruits of their labor. We also need to make our tax code more competitive globally. The United States has the highest corporate tax rate in the industrialized world at 35%. The current tax code is pushing jobs overseas, hurting our businesses and driving out good paying private sector jobs. We must reform the code to allow our manufacturers to compete better abroad and create more “Made in America” products. Our broken tax code incentivizes the import of cheap foreign products but doesn’t do enough to help our manufacturers or farmers export their products. I believe the solution is simple: we must lower the corporate tax rate in order to make America more competitive in the global marketplace to create additional jobs and grow the economy. However, as a New York Congressman, representing a New York Congressional District, I know all too well the challenges of our high cost of living, exacerbated by high state and local taxes. Individuals and families on Long Island are working so hard just to make ends meet. Income levels that may be considered upper middle class in other parts of our country don’t go anywhere near as far in New York. For too many families, if their State and Local Tax deduction (SALT) is eliminated, under the current plan, the amount they owe the federal government will actually increase. That is the most important reason why I oppose the current proposal in its current form. I view the elimination of the SALT deduction as a geographic redistribution of wealth, picking winners and losers. The proposal taxes additional funds from a state like New York in order to pay for deeper tax cuts elsewhere. For anyone who incorrectly argues that the rest of the country subsidizes our state, I would point out that New York is a net contributor to the federal coffers with regards to both tax policy and spending policy and that is even with the SALT deduction. It is not lost on me though that the reason why our state and local tax deduction is so high is because our state and local taxes are so high. That is especially why tax relief needs to be urgently provided by all levels. There is so much that can be done at all levels of government to help make Long Island more affordable so that families can stay together, younger generations can afford to raise a family here and seniors can afford to stay. If I am not fighting for my home state and home district, I cannot expect someone else from some other state to do it for me. I would love to be able to get to a YES and provide desperately needed tax relief for my constituents and all Americans, but this bill is not there yet, and I will not rest advocating for a needed improvement on this important issue. Congressman Lee Zeldin, member of the House Financial Services Committee, represents the First Congressional District of New York.
11.13.2017	Hauppauge, NY- On Sunday, November 12, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke at a Veterans Day Luncheon and Ceremony at Temple Beth Chai in Hauppauge. Pictured above, Rep. Zeldin is presenting Veterans with Congressional Certificates.
11.13.2017	Calverton, NY- On Saturday, November 11, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was a Guest Speaker at the Calverton National Cemetery Veterans Day Ceremony. Pictured just above, from left to right is, Rep. Lee Zeldin, WWII Veteran Arthur Bonne, and NY State Senator Tom Croci.
11.13.2017	St. James, NY – On Saturday, November 11, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the VFW Post 395 Veterans Day Parade in St James. Pictured above, Rep. Zeldin (left) is speaking with a group of local veterans following the parade.
11.10.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) just announced that his bipartisan legislation (H.R.1005/S.324) to help severely disabled veterans on Long Island and across the country, by expanding access to Adult Day Health Care for disabled veterans who need extra assistance and special attention in their day to day lives, passed the Senate last night with strong bipartisan support. Service members who are 70% or more disabled from a service connected injury often require significant assistance from others in order to carry out basic everyday tasks. Many times, the burden falls on family members of disabled veterans; some veterans may even need to reside in institutionalized facilities to receive the daily assistance of a trained medical professional. Both of these options can create financial and emotional hardships. One program that is currently available to help disabled veterans is Adult Day Health Care, which can be offered at State Veterans Homes across the United States. However, the expense of the program is oftentimes directly shouldered by the veteran and their family, which significantly limits the number of veterans who can enroll. Adult Day Health Care is currently only offered at three facilities in the United States; one being the Long Island State Veterans Home, which is located in the First Congressional District of New York, in Stony Brook. Congressman Zeldin’s bill would define the Adult Day Health Care program as a reimbursable treatment option through the Department of Veterans Affairs, which would guarantee that all severely disabled veterans, those who are 70% or more service connected disabled, are able to access Adult Day Health Care at no cost to them. The bill would also help expand the program, which could be offered at any of the 153 State Veterans Homes (SVH) across the country. Congressman Zeldin said, “This is an important piece of legislation that provides a valuable and necessary service to our nation’s veterans, and I am pleased to announce that this bill passed the Senate last night. By expanding access to Adult Day Health Care programs, we can ensure that all veterans receive the best and most efficient services that provide veterans with necessary assistance that also allows them to maintain their independence. With Senate passage of this bill, we are now one step closer to expanding care for disabled veterans on Long Island and across our country, allowing each veteran a more fulfilling life, while keeping families together and strong. Expanding Adult Day Health Care for our disabled veterans is a top priority and I commend my colleagues in the Senate for acting promptly to pass this commonsense bill. Helping those who have sacrificed so much for us has always been a top concern, and I will continue to support legislation to give our nation's veterans what they deserve.” On May 23, 2017, H.R.1005 passed the House with strong bipartisan support and over 50 cosponsors. This bill has received support from numerous veterans service organizations, including the American Legion, AMVETS, and Disabled American Veterans. Fred Sganga, Executive Director of Long Island State Veterans Home, said, “The Long Island State Veterans Home is tremendously grateful to Congressman Zeldin for supporting the Mission, Vision and Values of our Home. This new legislation will allow us to better serve our most disabled veterans while providing the much needed relief to families who serve as caregivers. No veteran should be left behind and we are grateful that Congressman Zeldin always makes our nation’s warriors his top priority.” Sharon Murphy, President of the National Association of State Veterans Home, said, “The National Association of State Veterans Homes is grateful to Congressman Zeldin for his foresight to provide essential services to our most disabled veterans, without the need for institutionalization.This legislation will have tremendous impact for our chronically ill and injured veterans as well as their caregivers.”
11.06.2017	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), co-chair of the bipartisan Long Island Sound Caucus and member of the Congressional Shellfish Caucus, announced today that New York State Sea Grant has been awarded $103,593 in federal funding by the NOAA National Sea Grant Program. This funding will be used to support the seafood and aquaculture industry, as well as to foster relationships between the industry and next generation of fishermen and other seafood professionals. New York Sea Grant is headquartered at SUNY Stony Brook in New York’s First Congressional District. Congressman Zeldin said, “I am proud to announce that federal funding has been secured for New York Sea Grant, a crucial program that provides resources to our local anglers and businesses, which will be used to support this vital industry and help preserve our cherished tradition of saltwater fishing. Here on Long Island, fishing is a treasured part of our life, culture, and economy. With imported seafood making up 90% of American seafood consumption, ensuring Long Island’s fishermen and shellfish farmers have access to the resources needed to sustain and grow their businesses is more critical than ever to keep seafood jobs on Long Island and to help the industry grow.” "New York's aquaculture industry is going through a growth spurt, especially commercial shellfish aquaculture on Long Island. To sustain this grow, the industry will need access to a workforce of young, well-trained seafood and aquaculture production professionals. The internship program to be organized by New York Sea Grant with the awarded funds will ensure that this cadre of new workers is there when the industry needs them," said William Wise, Director of New York Sea Grant. Founded in 1966, Sea Grant works with local shellfish farmers, fishermen, watermen, and other businesses in the coastal economy to grow and sustain their business models, connecting them to local resources to share best practices, and helping them navigate a complex patchwork of state and federal coastal zone management regulations through technical assistance. This past May, Congressman Zeldin voted to fund Sea Grant at $72.5 million (H.R. 244, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2017).
11.03.2017	Washington, DC - On Thursday, November 2, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met in his Washington D.C. office with Dr. Donald R. Boomgaarden, President of St. Joseph’s College in Patchogue. During the meeting, Dr. Boomgaarden updated the Congressman on various initiatives on campus. Rep. Zeldin is pictured above, right, with Dr. Boomgaarden, left.
11.02.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement today after the House Tax Reform bill was released: the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which would eliminate the State and Local Tax (SALT) deduction in its current form. This proposal would eliminate the current deductibility for state and local income and sales taxes, and cap the current property tax deduction at $10,000. “I am a No to this bill in its current form. We need to fix this State and Local Tax deduction issue. Adding back in the property tax deduction up to $10,000 is progress, but not enough progress. If I’m not fighting for New Yorkers, I can't expect anyone else from another state to do it for me. My goal in this tax reform mission is focused on allowing my hard working constituents to save more of their paycheck, reduce their cost of living, and put away more money for retirement. We also need a fairer, simpler tax code that would allow Americans to fill out their tax return on a postcard. Additionally, we need to improve the business climate, by reducing the corporate income tax rate to create more American jobs, bring jobs and businesses back from overseas, and prevent other jobs and businesses from leaving. I really like many aspects of the current tax reform plan, however, we still have more work to do to get this right, especially with regards to the SALT deduction, which has been in existence for over 100 years. Eliminating the SALT deduction would be a geographic redistribution of wealth, picking winners and losers. New York is a net contributor to the federal coffers with regards to both tax policy and spending policy and that is even with the SALT deduction. It’s also important to note that the reason why our state and local tax deduction is so high is because our state and local taxes are so high, which is why all levels of government should be working on delivering tax relief. In the meantime, I'm going to fight for my home district and my home state in our nation’s capital.”
11.01.2017	Washington, DC - On Tuesday, October 31, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with Vice President Mike Pence in the U.S. Capitol. During the 30 minute one on one meeting in the Vice President’s Capitol office, Vice President Pence spoke with Congressman Zeldin regarding primarily two different topics: tax cuts and U.S.-Israel relations. During the meeting, Congressman Zeldin conveyed his continued support for maintaining the State and Local Tax (SALT) deduction as part of the push for tax cuts. In the photos above, Rep. Zeldin is pictured with Vice President Pence, continuing their conversation through the Halls of the U.S. Capitol, following their meeting.
10.31.2017	Washington DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin, representing New York’s First Congressional District, just released the following statement, regarding today’s attack in New York City where a terrorist used a rental truck to strike and kill at least 8 people and injure several others. The suspect has been taken into custody by law enforcement, and the attack is currently being investigated as an act of terror: “Today’s cowardly terrorist attack will only make New Yorkers and Americans stronger. Unfortunately, for the innocent lives lost, many people injured, and their families most personally and tragically impacted, the damage done today can never possibly be reversed. Once again, we are reminded of the evil that exists in our world and the radicalized terrorists who in the name of Islam seek to destroy lives, communities, and nations around the globe. This threat must be accurately identified and completely eradicated both at home and abroad. Once again, we are also reminded that the finest and bravest law enforcement on earth are right here in New York. I have every faith in the world that they will do absolutely everything in their power everyday to protect our way of life and get answers and justice for the very weak person responsible, and any accomplices at all if they exist, for today’s attack.”
10.31.2017	Op-ed Written by Congressman Lee Zeldin (NY-01) All around the nation, gang violence has affected us in a most tragic and unforgiving way. It has torn apart families, claimed countless lives, and turned once peaceful communities into dangerous neighborhoods. The Central American gang MS-13 in particular has caused irreparable and devastating harm, especially for us here on Long Island. Only six months ago, four young men, two of whom were residents of the First Congressional District, were brutally murdered by this vicious gang is a senseless act of violence. MS-13’s brutality truly knows no bounds. However, this is a fight which can be won. The federal government is taking a no nonsense approach to eradicate violent gangs, including an announcement just last week that the Department of Justice would be designating MS-13 as a new focus within the Justice Department’s Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Forces (OCDETF). OCDETF is a nationwide effort that utilizes the resources and expertise of the United States’ leading law enforcement agencies to disrupt and dismantle major drug traffickers. As a result of the Justice Department’s designation, OCDETF will be able to use expanded capabilities to dismantle this vicious gang. This includes not only the federal racketeering statute called RICO, but also drug laws, gun laws, tax laws, and other means as necessary to put an end to this scourge. The task forces are comprised of our top security and law enforcement officials, such as the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). Continued death and destruction only emphasizes the need for the Administration's laser-like focus on eliminating this threat. Under this designation, the OCDETF will now direct its resources on coordinated, nationwide investigations, targeting the activities of MS-13, while assisting in the Attorney General's efforts to generate indictments against individuals who are members of, or otherwise associated with, this vicious gang. Utilizing FBI and DEA intelligence analysts, the OCDETF Fusion Center (OFC) will support coordinated, multi-jurisdictional investigations focused on the disruption and dismantlement of the most significant MS-13 activities. This gang has shown that it is an urgent, deadly threat; this designation will provide the resources necessary to remove MS-13 members, its associates, and its activities, off the streets of Long Island. We must be working together with allies at every level of government, especially within law enforcement. It is critical that these heroes, who work tirelessly to protect us and have sacrificed so much in the fight against violent gangs, are provided with every means necessary to take down these criminals. Eliminating the threats posed by MS-13 and other gang activity must remain a top priority, and is a mutually shared concern for all Americans. This past July, I accompanied President Trump to Long Island to discuss the ongoing effort to eradicate MS-13 in Suffolk County and nationwide. This was in addition to Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ visit to Central Islip this past April, when he also addressed the rise in gang violence in our community. Gangs like MS-13 have no place here, and I applaud our allies at all levels of government and in our local communities for their active interest in this dire concern. As a member of Congress, I have been working hard to ensure our officers are given every tool necessary to carry out their selfless mission. Last year, we passed into law several key pieces of legislation on this front. Some of these bills included the Federal Law Enforcement Self-Defense and Protection Act (H.R. 2137) and Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Program Reauthorization Act (S. 125). This progress is important, but there is even more hard work that still lies ahead. Deadly and disturbing does not even begin to describe some of the horrific crimes committed by this gang, and now more than ever before, we must band together to eradicate MS-13 and all others who intimidate and oppress our communities with violence. Congressman Lee Zeldin, member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and House Financial Services Committee, represents the First Congressional District of New York.
10.27.2017	Washington, DC - On Tuesday, October 24, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met in his Washington D.C. office with several members of the International Justice Mission; an organization of more than 750 attorneys, investigators, social workers, community activists and other professionals dedicated to protecting the poor from violence in the developing world. During the meeting, they discussed Congress’ efforts to combat human trafficking, including S.Res.68, to raise awareness of modern slavery. Pictured above, from left the right, are Rep. Zeldin, NY-1 constituent Reverend Randall Paige, Rene Vazquez, and Tom Schneider.
10.27.2017	Hauppauge, NY - On Friday, October 27, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited the Island Harvest Food Bank in Hauppauge with employees from Altice USA who were volunteering there for the day. The largest hunger relief organization on Long Island, Island Harvest Food Bank is dedicated to ending hunger and reducing food waste in the area. During the visit, Rep. Zeldin visited with Altice USA volunteers assembling packs of food to be distributed to children during Island Harvest’s Kids Weekend Backpack Program. Rep. Zeldin is pictured above at the food bank.
10.26.2017	Washington, DC - On Wednesday, October 25, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted a Special Order hour on the floor of the House of Representatives in support of the President’s decision to decertify the Iran Nuclear Deal. The Congressman led a discussion with 6 other Members of Congress regarding the President's decision and the need to eliminate Iran's problematic nuclear and non-nuclear activities. You can watch the discussion here, or by clicking the video below. The other Members of Congress who participated in the Special Order hour are Rep. Joe Wilson (SC-2), Rep. Ted Yoho (FL-3), Rep. Claudia Tenney (NY-22), Rep. Andy Barr (KY-6), Rep. Todd Rokita (IN-4), and Rep. David Kustoff (TN- 8).
10.26.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement today after voting NO on the Senate Amendment to H. Con. Res. 71, which contained language recently added by the Senate calling for the elimination of the State and Local Tax Deduction. “After the Senate recently added anti-SALT language to their budget resolution that was not in the earlier passed House version, I decided to vote against today’s budget resolution, because a workable solution has not yet been identified to this issue. I also believe that an accurate online calculator needs to be made available as soon as possible so that Americans can easily plug in their own information and see exactly how much money their family would save under the plan. As I've stated in the past, my goal in this tax reform mission is focused on allowing Long Islanders to save more of their paycheck, reduce their cost of living, and put away more money for retirement. We need a fairer, simpler tax code that would allow Americans to fill out their tax return on a postcard. We also need to improve the business climate, by reducing the corporate income tax rate to create more American jobs, to bring jobs and businesses back from overseas, and to prevent other jobs and businesses from leaving. On another front, the state and local elected officials responsible for making our state such a high tax state really need to do their part to reduce the tax burden from their end as well, because it is out of control. Our State and Local Tax deduction with the feds is so high, because our state and local taxes are so high. New Yorkers and all Americans need tax relief from all levels of government. It is my current mission to do my part delivering a tax cut ASAP from Uncle Sam. The last piece of this effort to get this win over the finish line is this important negotiation for major changes to that proposal to eliminate SALT. Americans work hard for their money and I believe very strongly that they should keep more of it to save or spend on whatever their heart's desire.”
10.26.2017	Washington, DC - On Wednesday, October 25, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), State University of New York (SUNY) at Albany Class of 2001, met in his Washington D.C. office with Dr. Havidán Rodríguez, President of SUNY Albany. During the meeting, they discussed several of the new academic programs being offered at the University. Rep. Zeldin is pictured above, left, with President Rodríguez, right.
10.23.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement today to express his support for U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions designating MS-13 as a new focus within the Justice Department’s Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Forces. Under this designation, the Justice Department’s Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Forces will use the federal racketeering statute, or RICO, against this criminal organization. They will also enforce tax and gun laws. Congressman Zeldin said, “President Trump, Attorney General Sessions, and the administration are taking a no nonsense approach when it comes to eradicating violent street gangs like MS-13 and other Central American gangs. It has been very welcome relief witnessing the President and his administration take such an active role to address this urgent threat, especially here in Suffolk County, where the rise in gang violence is hitting home in the most personal and tragic way. Innocent Long Islanders are being brutally murdered. Families and communities in Suffolk County are being torn apart. In April, the murder of four young men by MS-13 took place on Long Island; two of whom, Justin Llivicura, of East Patchogue, and Jorge Tigre, of Bellport, were residents of the First Congressional District. This is unfortunately just one of the many recent tragedies caused by MS-13 in our community. AG Sessions’ action sends a clear indication that gangs like MS-13 have no place here, and that we will never tolerate gang violence in our communities. Eradicating this criminal organization must be a top priority for our federal, state and local governments.” In July 2017, Congressman Zeldin traveled with President Trump from Washington, DC, to Suffolk County, New York, when the President visited Long Island to discuss the administration’s effort to eradicate the MS-13 gang in Suffolk County and nationwide.
10.23.2017	New York, NY - On Monday, October 23, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) participated in a Question and Answer panel with Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D, NY-17) and the American Jewish Committee’s (AJC) Board of Governors. Topics of discussion during the panel included the Iran Nuclear Deal and the continued need for American leadership in the world, including the urgent necessity to combat the rising tide of anti-Semitism. Rep. Zeldin is pictured above, center, during the panel.
10.23.2017	Washington, DC - NEW VIDEO - On October 12, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke with Ben Carson, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), at a House Financial Services Committee hearing entitled “The Future of Housing in America: Oversight of the Department of Housing and Urban Development”. During the exchange, Secretary Carson spoke personally and passionately about poverty and his mother, and was followed by Congressman Zeldin discussing the need to eliminate veteran homelessness. You can watch and listen to the approximately five minute exchange below.
10.20.2017	Kings Point, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), co-chair of the Long Island Sound Caucus and a founding member of the bipartisan Congressional Estuary Caucus, co-hosted a conference today titled “Orchestrating Both Coasts for a Better Sound - Part II” at the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, alongside Rep. Tom Suozzi (D, NY-3) and Rep. Rosa DeLauro (D, CT-3). Rep. Zeldin pictured above, center, speaking about the need to protect the Long Island Sound, alongside, NYS DEC Commissioner Basil Seggos, Rep. Suozzi, and NYS Assemblyman Steve Englebright (left to right) Rep. Zeldin pictured above with several Midshipmen from Long Island Rep. Zeldin pictured above with Commissioner Seggos The conference provided the opportunity to review many past successes protecting the Long Island Sound, and to share information and ideas about efforts to protect the Sound moving forward. Congressman Zeldin said, “The Long Island Sound is a precious feature of our life, culture and economy. Over the years, the Long Island Sound has suffered from pollution, overdevelopment and other negative impacts. There has been a lot of progress made, but there is still much more that must be done to protect this critical waterway. Today’s conference with my fellow co-Chairs of the Long Island Sound Caucus, Reps. Suozzi and DeLauro, brought local, state and national leaders and environmental stakeholders together to discuss the work ahead. I look forward to continuing this progress in Congress on a bipartisan basis to ensure the Long Island Sound is preserved for generations to come.” This past May, Congressman Zeldin voted in favor of H.R. 244, which was signed into law by the President, to fund the Long Island Sound Program at $8 million, an increase of $4 million in funding from the previous year, and the National Estuary Program, which serves both the Long Island Sound and Peconic Estuary, at $26.7 million. H.R. 244 also provides $72.5 million for the National Sea Grant College Program, which works with local producers to grow and sustain their business models while connecting them to local resources to share best practices. Alongside U.S. Senators Charles Schumer (D-NY), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), and Chris Murphy (D-CT), as well as Rep. DeLauro and Rep. Suozzi, Congressman Zeldin reintroduced the Long Island Sound Restoration and Stewardship Act (H.R. 1674) to preserve and protect the Sound. Congressman Zeldin also reintroduced his legislation to protect and preserve Plum Island, the Plum Island Preservation Act (H.R. 2182), which passed the House with unanimous bipartisan support in July. Rep. Zeldin also announced in August that Cornell Cooperative Extension Association of Suffolk County had been awarded $120,000 from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to remove derelict fishing gear from the Sound.
10.20.2017	Southampton, NY - On Wednesday, October 18, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with Michael Irving, Mayor of the Village of Southampton, to discuss shared federal and local priorities. Rep. Zeldin is pictured above, right, with Mayor Irving, left, in front of Southampton Village Hall.
10.19.2017	Southampton, NY - On October 18, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) participated in a Facebook Live Q&A, which was moderated by Joe Shaw, Executive Editor of 27east, on a range of issues, including foreign affairs, healthcare, and veterans, among more. You can watch and listen to the conversation below.
10.17.2017	Patchogue, NY - On Monday, October 16, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met in his Patchogue office with Eugene Sayan, Chairman, CEO, and President of Softheon. Located in Stony Brook, Softheon is a leading healthcare IT (HIT) provider that designs federal and state health insurance exchanges. During the meeting, they discussed the work done at Softheon and how changes in healthcare policy will affect their business. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with Mr. Sayan, right.
10.17.2017	Melville, NY - On Monday, October 16, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the American Jewish Committee (AJC) Legislative Breakfast in Melville, alongside Rep. Thomas Suozzi (D, NY-3). Topics of discussion during the breakfast included the Iran Nuclear Deal and the need to combat anti-Semitism in the United States and around the world. In the above photos, Congressman Zeldin is pictured speaking during the meeting.
10.16.2017	Patchogue, NY - On Friday, October 13, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) held a meeting with his Veterans’ Advisory Panel, a group of NY-1 servicemembers and veterans’ advocates, in his Patchogue office. During the meeting, they discussed ways to address long running issues at Northport VAMC and were updated on the status of Rep. Zeldin’s legislation to support veterans, including the Flexible VA Loan Guarantee Act (H.R. 815), which recently passed the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity unanimously with bipartisan support. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, center left, with the members of his panel.
10.16.2017	“In 1958, the Federal Perkins Loan Program, originally known as the National Defense Student Loan Program, was enacted by Congress during the height of the Cold War in response to our country’s need to create a more educated workforce and regain our competitive edge in the areas of math, science and technology. This very first student loan program provided financial assistance to thousands of students who otherwise would not have had access to higher education, and therefore, best contribute to our country’s ability to compete as a global power. Today, fifty-nine years later, our global threats have changed, but the Perkins Loan Program continues to fill a critical gap in affordable financing to nearly 425,000 low-income students nationwide each year. The success of this long-standing program can be attributed to its sustainable structure, whereby approximately $1.1 billion in loans are originated annually through campus-based revolving funds established from a combination of federal and institutional contributions. This institutional investment creates “skin in the game” and an environment of accountability and risk sharing. I believe that the architects of our country’s original loan program were guided by the same principles we value today. This program was designed to provide affordable financing and increase accessibility to higher education, without increasing the size of our federal government or burdening the American taxpayers with ongoing administrative costs. The Perkins Loan Program is a partnership between the federal government and institutions of higher learning. The institutions contribute to the capital investment of the fund and agree to maintain responsibility for all aspects of the program’s administration. The risk-sharing structure of the revolving loan fund fosters accountability from colleges and universities which originate the loans, counsel students, and work closely with borrowers throughout repayment to ensure the funds are available for generations to follow. This model is so successful that the dollars invested have been loaned, repaid and loaned again – several times since the program’s inception. In fact, this self-sustaining loan program has operated so efficiently, it has remained financially viable even without any federal contributions for the past 12 years. In that timeframe, more than six million students have been awarded in excess of $14 billion in low-cost Perkins Loans without the investment of ANY additional taxpayer money. In my home state of New York, the State University of New York, or SUNY system, has over 15,000 students benefiting from the Perkins program, representing over $25 million in affordable loans. In the First Congressional District, which I represent, Stony Brook University serves hundreds of students annually and over $600,000 in loans in the 2017-18 school year. Two years ago, the Perkins Loan Program temporarily expired, but was quickly revived in response to the public outcry from colleges, students and parents nationwide. Now, Congress must act again, by passing H.R. 2482, which I cosponsor, the Federal Perkins Loan Program Extension Act. Families and students from New York State stand to lose the most if Perkins is ever eliminated. In the 2015-16 academic year, $110.5 million in Perkins Loans were awarded to approximately 45,000 students attending college in New York – more than any other state in the nation. Today, during a time of rising student loan indebtedness, Perkins Loans provide the stability of low-interest loans at the most favorable terms to students with economic need - including a fixed 5% interest rate, no origination fees and flexible repayment terms. In addition, interest does not accrue while borrowers are enrolled or in deferment, and Perkins Loans offer full or partial loan forgiveness to borrowers who work in designated, high-need, public-service areas. The historic success and sustainability of Perkins is a model of simplicity, efficiency and risk-sharing, which align with the current goals of higher education reform. While there may be improvements to consider when Congress next reauthorizes the Higher Education Act, the Perkins Loan Program should be extended for two more years to ensure that students are not harmed during the process. The need to create a more educated workforce and compete as a global power has not changed, nor has the goal to provide affordable financing and increase accessibility to higher education. Whether Democrat or Republican, liberal or conservative, extending the Perkins Loan Program is an issue we should all support; it is truly a win-win for students, families and taxpayers. As Congress debates the future of student aid programs, we should look to the successful funding and administrative structure of the Perkins Loan Program as a model to be expanded rather than eliminated.”
10.13.2017	Washington, DC - On Wednesday, October 11, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with NY-1 constituent Lisa Jones, owner of Worldwide Group Travel, in his Washington DC office. Based out of Mt. Sinai, NY, Worldwide Group Travel provides travel and event planning services for large and small travel groups. During the meeting, they discussed some of the issues facing small businesses, such as the need to access credit and capital. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with Lisa, right.
10.13.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement today after President Donald Trump announced his decision not to recertify the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), or Iran Nuclear Deal. In order for the deal to be continued, every 90 days, the current administration must recertify that Iran is fully implementing the agreement, and that the suspension of sanctions is both proportionate to the measures taken by Iran to end its illicit nuclear weapons program and vital to protect U.S. national security as part of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015 (Public Law 114–17), which was passed and signed into law last Congress. The next certification was due to Congress this week, on October 15th. “President Trump’s decision not to recertify the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), otherwise known as the Iran Nuclear Deal, was the right decision for America’s best interests. The JCPOA in its current form is deeply flawed and one sided for what is in the agreement, and deeply flawed and one sided for what is not in the agreement. It is not a pathway for how to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon. It is a blueprint for how Iran can acquire a nuclear weapon. This ‘deal’ propped up the wrong regime, providing Iran, the world’s largest state sponsor of terror, with a jackpot of up to $150 billion in sanctions relief, without even asking for a signature. The JCPOA in its current form fails to address any of Iran’s other bad activities, including overthrowing foreign governments, illegally test firing Inter Continental Ballistic Missiles, blowing up mock U.S. warships, seizing one of our naval vessels and subsequently holding hostage and publicly embarrassing 10 American sailors, pledging to wipe Israel off the map, and chanting Death to America in their streets on their holidays, all while unjustly imprisoning American citizens. Since the JCPOA was entered into, Iranian aggression in the Middle East, including Iraq, Syria, and elsewhere, has only increased. These bad activities have only gotten worse, since all of the leverage that brought the Iranians to the table was negotiated away under the JCPOA. There are many flaws with the terms of the agreement. The verification regime must become adequate and transparent, and Americans should know what the verification agreement is. You cannot support a deal based on verification when you don’t even know what the verification is. Even former Secretary of State John Kerry admitted he hadn’t read it when I questioned him about the JCPOA at a House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing in the last Congress. We also now know that Iran is able to inspect some of their own nuclear sites and collect their own soil samples, and that U.S. weapons inspectors are not allowed on the inspection teams. There are also massive issues with sunset clauses, access to Iran’s military sites, and much more. Many of Iran’s other bad activities will need to cease. In the days to come, if Iran is serious about helping turn the JCPOA into a truly reasonable agreement, then they need to make those intentions clear, both in private conversations with the United States and other nations of the P5+1, as well as in their public rhetoric. No games. If Iran does not want to save the JCPOA then the sanctions should immediately ramp back up and I am confident that our foreign allies will assist. I have always believed that a better deal was necessary and obtainable. Even no deal would have been better than the JCPOA in its current form.”
10.12.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY) announced today that his bill, the Flexible VA Loan Guarantee Act (H.R. 815) passed the House Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity unanimously with bipartisan support on October 11, 2017. The Flexible VA Loan Guarantee Act would eliminate the loan limit or the “maximum guarantee amount” of a loan that the VA can guarantee for a veteran, providing the VA with the flexibility to determine the appropriate limit for all veterans' loans. Congressman Zeldin said, “Supporting our nation’s veterans is a responsibility we all share. These brave men and women repeatedly answered the call to service to ensure the safety and security of our country and protect our democratic values. Not only do we owe our veterans gratitude and respect for the sacrifices they made, we have a duty to provide them with meaningful support to pursue the American Dream they honorably protected, a cornerstone of which is home ownership. My bipartisan legislation provides the VA with the flexibility it needs to determine the appropriate limit for veterans’ loans, which will be extremely helpful for veterans who live in areas with a high cost of real estate, such as Long Island. Since taking office in 2015, I have heard from many Suffolk County veterans concerned about securing VA home loans given the limits under current law. My bill is a commonsense VA reform that has bipartisan support to help countless veterans across Long Island and the country. I am pleased to see the bill pass with such overwhelming bipartisan support. I will keep working to get this bill passed again in the House of Representatives.” Last Congress, the Flexible VA Loan Guarantee Act was packaged into H.R. 3016, the Veterans Employment, Education, and Healthcare Improvement Act, which passed the House of Representatives with unanimous bipartisan support.
10.11.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, today questioned former Obama administration official Jake Sullivan on the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), or Iran Nuclear Deal, during a committee hearing titled, “Confronting the Full Range of Iranian Threats.” During the first clip, which you can view below or here, the Congressman questioned Mr. Sullivan on the JCPOA and the verification agreement. The Congressman discusses how the agreement is supposedly built on verification, not trust, but no one knows the verification regime. In the second clip, which you can view below or here, the Congressman discusses how the deal props up the wrong regime with a jackpot of up to $150 billion of sanctions relief. Yesterday, Congressman Zeldin released a statement urging President Donald Trump to not recertify the JCPOA. The next certification is due to Congress this week, on October 15th. You can read the release here.
10.11.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released a statement today in support of Governor Andrew Cuomo’s announced position that he would take legal action against federal regulators and regional fishery management councils if an equitable quota for New York’s fluke fishing is not reached in meetings being held this December between the Mid-Atlantic Fishery Management Council and Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission (ASMFC). Congressman Zeldin said, “Here on Long Island, so much of our economy, culture, and way of life is linked to the water which surrounds us and the bounties within it. Since taking office in 2015, I have been calling for fundamentally reforming unfair restrictions on catch limits, allocations, and quotas at the state and federal level, that hurt New York fishermen. The current restrictions have placed unnecessary burdens on our local anglers and limited the growth of our fishing industry, which is vital to so many of our small businesses here in NY-1. For example, in July, regulators gave final approval to a confusing set of requirements that call for a one inch difference in the size limit for fluke, 18 inches for New Jersey anglers, but 19 inches for New York. Using flawed, outdated data to justify bad rules makes no sense, and it is long past due that New York representatives on regional councils did much more to fight for our fishermen.” “I am proud to join the Governor’s call for legal action if an equitable fluke quota distribution is not met. This summer, bipartisan teamwork at all levels of government in the state of New Jersey resulted in a victory for that state's fishermen over an unfair quota allocation and we must follow that same model in New York. For far too long, New York State has continually lost out to other states when regional bodies allocate fishing quotas. It is time our fishermen here on Long Island receive desperately needed reform and we stopped making decisions for our fisheries based off of old data and poor science. It is imperative that we see this mission through, for all of our fishermen, and for all the businesses that rely upon our coastal economy. While there is still much more to be done to truly reinvigorate this cherished part of our heritage, this is an excellent step in the right direction," Congressman Zeldin concluded.
10.11.2017	Mt. Sinai, NY - On Saturday, October 7, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited Warrior Ranch Foundation in Mt. Sinai, NY, with his family. At Warrior Ranch, military veterans can participate in clinics and workshops to learn more about horse training, grooming, feeding, and other activities, with the intention of lowering stress levels, building companionship, and reducing the symptoms of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). During the visit, Congressman Zeldin joined with several NY-1 veterans to interact with and help train the horses and learn more about the ranch’s mission. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above during his visit to the ranch. Click here to view more photos from Congressman Zeldin’s visit.
10.10.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement today urging President Donald Trump to not recertify the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), or Iran Nuclear Deal. As part of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015 (Public Law 114–17), which was passed and signed into law last Congress, in order for the deal to be continued, every 90 days, the current administration must recertify that Iran is fully implementing the agreement, and that the suspension of sanctions is both proportionate to the measures taken by Iran to end its illicit nuclear weapons program and vital to protect U.S. national security. The next certification is due to Congress this week, on October 15th. “The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), otherwise known as the Iran Nuclear Deal, is not in America’s best interests, and President Trump should not recertify this so-called ‘deal’. The JCPOA is not a blueprint for how to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon. It is the pathway for exactly how Iran can acquire a nuclear weapon. This is deeply flawed, one-sided deal, which did not even require a signature, provides up to $150 billion in sanctions relief, propping up the wrong regime, without addressing any of Iran’s other bad activities, including overthrowing foreign governments, illegally test firing Inter Continental Ballistic Missiles, blowing up mock U.S. warships, seizing one of our naval vessels and subsequently holding hostage and publicly embarrassing 10 American sailors, pledging to wipe Israel off the map, and chanting Death to America in their streets on their holidays, all while unjustly imprisoning American citizens. Iranian aggression in Iraq, Syria, and elsewhere is only making matters much worse since the JCPOA was entered into. All of the leverage that brought the Iranians to the table has been negotiated away, leaving no ability to deal with Iran’s other bad activities. President Obama declared that this deal wasn’t built on trust; it was built on verification, but I have not met a single American who has read the verification regime entered into between the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and Iran. Last Congress, I questioned former Secretary of State John Kerry about the JCPOA at a House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing, and even he admitted he hadn’t read it. You cannot support a deal based on verification when you don’t even know what the verification is. What we do know is that no U.S. weapons inspectors are allowed on the inspection teams, and Iran is able to inspect some of their own nuclear sites and collect their own soil samples. They are also not permitting the necessary access to their military sites, which the IAEA recently asserted as preventing verification that Iran is complying with key terms of the agreement. If Iran wants to save the JCPOA, the regime will need to step up to the plate and help turn this into a reasonable agreement. The verification regime must become adequate and transparent and many of Iran’s other bad activities will need to cease. If Iran does not want to save the JCPOA then the sanctions should immediately ramp back up. I am confident that our great partners abroad recognize the urgency of supporting this necessary course correction. A better deal was necessary and obtainable. Even no deal would have been better than this particular arrangement. I strongly encourage President Trump to not recertify the terribly flawed JCPOA.”
10.09.2017	Patchogue, NY - On Friday, October 6, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met in his Patchogue office with Mike Pitka and Steve Saunders, representatives from Sensitron Conductor. Founded in 1969 with a corporate headquarters in Hauppauge, NY, Sensitron is a leading manufacturer of high reliability power electronic component solutions for several markets, including defense and aerospace. During the meeting, they discussed President Trump’s Executive Order on Buy American and Hire American and how it can impact businesses like Sensitron. Pictured above, from left to right, are Mr. Pitka, Rep. Zeldin, and Mr. Saunders.
10.09.2017	Patchogue, NY - On Friday, October 6, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met in his Patchogue office with Dr. Samuel L. Stanley Jr., President of Stony Brook University. During the meeting, they discussed several topics, including the effectiveness of Pell Grants and the important research being conducted at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), as well as at Stony Brook University and Brookhaven National Lab (BNL). Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, with Dr. Stanley, left.
10.03.2017	In all corners of our nation, and many areas in between, tens of millions of Americans live near water, and depend upon the natural resources and bounties which it provides. This especially rings true here in NY-1, where the water is an incredibly important part of our life and culture. However, with this blessing comes the need to protect ourselves against flooding, which has the potential to cause incredible damage to our homes and property. A crucial part of this defense is reforming the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), which is now over $25 billion in debt. This year’s particularly devastating hurricane season further emphasizes the urgent need for reform, incentivizing mitigation, reducing repetitive loss claims, achieving fiscal solvency and actuarially sound rates, and more timely adjudication of claims, among other ideas. In addition, too many of those affected by flooding are uninsured; we must have expanded coverage for those homeowners, which includes opening up the private market to increase options for coverage. As a member of the Housing and Insurance Subcommittee in the House of Representatives, I have been working hard to reform this program on a bipartisan basis and reauthorize it for the long term. As a Long Islander, this concern is all the more personal. In June, along Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D, NY-12), I introduced the bipartisan NFIP Policyholder Protection Act (H.R. 2868) to incentivize mitigation activities. This crucial legislation would result in a credit to policyholders who invest in mitigation, such as elevating their homes, adding porous foundations, or moving boilers to the second floor. Time and time again, I have heard from homeowners across NY-1 that, despite having done the right thing and elevated or otherwise mitigated risks to their homes, they have not received a corresponding drop in their flood insurance premiums. My legislation, which was passed out of the House Financial Services committee on a strong bipartisan vote, will ensure those homeowners receive a credit for their actions, in addition to other great benefits for our district. The advantages of flood insurance reform under this legislation will be tremendous for Suffolk County, and I will be working hard to ensure that this bill is passed and signed into law. While homeowners should be encouraged to protect their property, we must also realize that some areas are naturally prone to excessive flooding and result in repetitive claims for flood loss. Too many homeowners are opting to live in high risk areas confident they will receive substantial repeated payouts from NFIP. Paying homeowners over and over and over again for flood damage is the quintessential definition of insanity. When the reality is that repeated flood damage is all but certain, we must reform NFIP so homeowners relocate to safer and more stable locations, including buyouts for willing communities and the prevention of overdevelopment along waterfront communities. Reducing repetitive claims is one of many ways to put NFIP on a path towards fiscal solvency and more actuarially sound rates, which is a top priority of Congress’ bipartisan effort to effectively reform this program. Expanding flood insurance coverage for more Americans is another vital objective. A large amount of those affected by Hurricane Harvey and Irma did not live in properties covered by flood insurance. The coverage map must be expanded as well as lifting the “non-compete” clause in federal law that severely limits the availability of private flood insurance options. By doing so, we can encourage individuals, families, and business owners to seek appropriate and affordable flood coverage before the next storm, increasing competition and consumer choice while lowering costs. We must also speed up the timetable for FEMA’s claims processing and better utilize digital technology like GIS to improve the flood mapping process. However, none of these ideas will amount to anything if not actually implemented through a long term reauthorization of the program. NFIP was reauthorized last month, without reforms, as part of a short term punt. The American people deserve immediate action. Flood insurance is an absolute necessity for millions of Americans, and it is unfortunate that NFIP has been beset with these issues. However, we have a very real chance to make much-needed changes to this program. Increasing mitigation incentives, promoting fiscal solvency and actuarially sound rates, repetitive loss claims reduction, introducing more timely adjudication of claims, and expanding coverage while opening up the private market are all excellent and necessary ideas. Now is the time to make much needed reform. I look forward to pursuing any and all legislative options to make real change a reality. Congressman Lee Zeldin, member of the House Financial Services Committee, represents the First Congressional District of New York.
10.02.2017	Northport, NY - On Thursday, September 28, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) toured the Northport VA Medical Center (VAMC), alongside Rep. Phil Roe (R, TN-1), Chairman of the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs, and Rep. Tom Suozzi (D, NY-3). During the visit, the Congressmen toured the facility and met with D. Scott Guermonprez, Director of Northport VAMC, as well as other facility staff, to discuss solutions to improve care for veterans and resolve many of the center’s long-running issues. Pictured above, from left to right, are Rep. Zeldin, Chairman Roe, Director Guermonprez, and Rep. Suozzi, in front of the Wall of Wars.
10.02.2017	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement this morning, regarding the deadliest mass shooting in our nation’s history that took place last night in Las Vegas, Nevada: “Late last night, a domestic terrorist cowardly attacked concert-goers in a horrific and tragic mass shooting in Las Vegas, Nevada, that left at least 50 people dead and more than 400 injured. Music should bring us all together and yet again has become the target for these most cowardly acts. While the investigation is ongoing, and details are still emerging, all Americans extend our deepest sympathies and prayers to everyone impacted by this senseless tragedy and thank all first responders on the scene.”
09.29.2017	Washington, DC - On Wednesday, September 27, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with approximately two dozen NY-1 representatives from Head Start at his Washington D.C. office. Head Start is a comprehensive early childhood education and health program which serves families across America. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, center right, with the representatives.
09.27.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement on the tax reform framework, “The Unified Framework For Fixing Our Broken Tax Code,” which was released today by the White House and Congressional Republicans. “One of the reasons why America is the greatest nation in the world is because we give our citizens the opportunity to work hard and succeed on one’s own merit. However, a burdensome and confusing tax code limits this opportunity. It will only get worse unless we take action to fix it. We need a fair and simple tax code that delivers desperately needed relief for American workers and improves our business climate, creating economic growth and more good paying, private sector jobs. I want to see a simplification of our tax code where 9 out of 10 Americans are able to fill out their tax return on a postcard. I want to see my hard working constituents keeping more of their paychecks, experiencing a lower cost of living, and being able to save more for retirement. All of this is possible. I strongly support cutting taxes for individuals and families, reducing the number of brackets, increasing the standard deduction, eliminating unfair double and triple taxation like the death tax and alternative minimum tax, increasing the child care tax credit, and drastically reducing the amount of deductions, credits, and other complicated provisions so we can have a fairer and simpler tax code. I also strongly support lowering the corporate income tax rate to become more competitive globally and bring back jobs, companies, and liquidity that have left, as well as preventing any more from leaving. This will also spur more private sector job growth and allow our economy to grow faster than our government. Currently at 35%, we have one of the highest federal corporate income tax rates in the industrialized world. I will continue to focus on making sure this proposal is a win for hard working individuals, families, and job creators on Long Island, where we have one of the highest costs of living in the nation. I will be assessing the impacts of all proposals, including the debate over whether or not, and how, to maintain the State and Local Tax Deduction, to make sure the final proposal is not just good for America, but most specifically, to make sure the final proposal is good for NY-1.” To read more about why our nation desperately needs tax reform, click here.
09.27.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) just released the following statement calling for the appointment of a National Incident Commander, as well as continued aid for Puerto Rico, a territory of the United States, after the destruction to the island caused by Hurricanes Maria and Irma: “There is horrible devastation in Puerto Rico as a result of Hurricanes Maria and Irma. Just like after Hurricane Katrina and the BP spill, we need to immediately appoint a National Incident Commander to marshal all federal resources on the island, civilian and military. This is also essential so that there is one chain of command and aid doesn't get held up waiting for various agency approvals. This is life or death so one chain of command led by an experienced Admiral or General is critical. There needs to be increased flexibility and resources, including fuel, to save additional lives. The response in Puerto Rico is unprecedented in scope and has only just begun. There are many challenges, including lack of communication due to widespread power and service outages. I will continue to monitor the progress, and advocate for additional efforts to assist this very urgent and critical cause.” Currently, the Department of Defense is providing logistical support that has included getting over 60 hospitals open. Friday, the Pentagon sent a fleet of Air Force jets loaded with supplies and medical personnel. The Army Corps of Engineers has re-opened Luis Munoz Marin International Airport in San Juan. FEMA told Congress on Tuesday morning that it had 500 personnel in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Thousands of federal personnel from various agencies are also in the area. FEMA also said that 7 million meals and 4 million liters of water were en route by barge. The U.S. military said today its initial focus has been on reopening hospitals and Search and Rescue (SAR) operations. At least eight Army Black Hawk helicopters from Fort Campbell are being deployed to PR. The USNS Comfort, the US navy's east coast hospital ship, is now bound for Puerto Rico. This is one of only two DoD hospital ships. It has 1,000 beds, a heavy lift helicopter deck, and 12 operating theatres. As of Monday, the US Coast Guard also had 13 ships off of PR. They are conducting SAR operations and fixing ports that are damaged or full of debris and inoperable. The DOD has also set up a staging base at Dobbins Air Reserve Base in Georgia and has delivered troops from Fort Bragg and Fort Stewart.
09.27.2017	Washington, DC - On Tuesday, September 26, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with Theodore Roosevelt IV in the U.S. Capitol. Mr. Roosevelt is not only the great grandson of President Teddy Roosevelt, but also a former Navy Seal and prominent conservationist. During the meeting, they discussed the need to protect the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), as well as Rep. Zeldin’s legislation to protect and preserve Plum Island, the Plum Island Preservation Act (H.R. 2182). Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, with Mr. Roosevelt, left, off of the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives.
09.26.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released a fact sheet to provide information to constituents on how to prevent unwanted telemarketer calls. A copy of the text is below. The fact sheet can be viewed here: Fact Sheet on Preventing Telemarketer Calls.pdf Preventing Unwanted Telemarketer Calls Technology has rapidly expanded the ability of scammers to make a massive amount of illegal phone calls from anywhere in the world. Unwanted calls are the number one complaint from consumers when filing complaints with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). While the Do Not Call Registry prohibits sales calls, telemarketers often bypass the registry, by spoofing caller ID information, masking their real phone numbers. If you are a victim of these harassing phone scams, you have options: Tell the unwanted callers that you do not consent to the call. Then make a record of the number and file a complaint with the FCC at 1-888-225-5322. There is also a hotline at the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to report calls (1-877-FTC-HELP (1-877-382-4357). Option 2 is to speak with a representative). Contact your phone provider and ask them to block the number. Also ask them if they charge extra for this service. It doesn’t make sense to pay an extra fee to block numbers, being that telemarketers often change Caller ID information. Robocall-blocking technology now legally exists and is available for your use. If you use robocall-blocking technology already, let your phone company know which numbers are producing unwanted calls so they can help block those calls for you and others. Register with the Do Not Call Registry online at www.donotcall.gov, or by calling toll-free - 1-888-382-1222 - from the phone number you wish to register. You may register up to three numbers at one time. Explore free online call blocking services, call blocking boxes, and smartphone apps that block unwanted calls. Don't purchase any service until reviewing the application’s privacy policy on protecting your personal information. If you have an iPhone, Android, or other type of smartphone, you can also utilize the cell phone's individual call blocking service. For example, for an iPhone, if you determine a number is from a spam caller, tap the “i” on the number that just called your mobile device and scroll to the bottom of the screen and click “block this caller.” All phone numbers that are manually blocked will appear under Blocked Contacts. Methods for blocking calls vary according to the specific device; you can contact your provider for further instructions. Current Efforts to Block Violators’ Calls: Under a new initiative announced by the FTC, when consumers report Do Not Call or robocall violations to the agency, the robocaller phone numbers consumers provide will be released each day to telecommunications carriers and other industry partners that are implementing call-blocking solutions. Filing complaints to the FTC brings more cases. While the FTC does not resolve individual consumer problems, each complaint helps the FTC investigate the company and has led to successful law enforcement action. The FTC has been teaming with the private sector, offering rewards for companies that come up with a technical solution to filter out illegal calls. Last year, the FTC challenged contestants to create tools people could use to block and forward robocalls automatically to a honeypot – a data collection system that researchers and investigators can use to study the calls.
09.22.2017	Farmingville, NY - On Saturday, September 16, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke at the 7th Annual Salute to Heroes Concert at the Pennysaver Amphitheater in Farmingville. Prior to the live music, a ceremony was held in honor of Navy Sailor Terance Weldon of Selden, who passed away over 30 years ago and has a plaque dedicated to his memory within the amphitheater. During his speech, Congressman Zeldin reflected on the heroism of our servicemembers and the need to always honor and remember those who have sacrificed in defense of our nation. Click here, or the image above, to watch a special video tribute by JVC Broadcasting, which also includes a portion of my speech.
09.22.2017	Riverhead, NY - On Wednesday, September 20, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met in Riverhead with the leadership of the Peconic Estuary Program. They toured Grangebel Park and Peconic Riverfront Park in Riverhead to view some of the initiatives of the Program. Pictured above, from left to right, are Alison Branco, Ph.D., Marine Biologist; Congressman Zeldin; and Environmental Analysts Sarah Schaefer and Elizabeth Hornstein, in Peconic Riverfront Park.
09.22.2017	Holtsville, NY - On Wednesday, September 20, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) toured DiCarlo Distributors Inc. as part of his ongoing NY-1 Economic Growth Tour, where the Congressman tours NY-1’s businesses, large and small, to meet with employers and employees to discuss their needs and priorities. Founded in 1963, DiCarlo Distributors is a family owned and operated enterprise that is one of the top 50 food service distributors in the United States. During the visit, Congressman Zeldin toured the facility, met with many NY-1 employees, and spoke with the DiCarlo family about the current availability of many well paying jobs at the company. In the above photos, Congressman Zeldin is pictured speaking with management and employees while touring the facility.
09.18.2017	Shirley, NY - On Saturday, September 16, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Pine Barrens Discovery Day in Shirley, along with his two daughters, Arianna and Mikayla. Hosted by the Central Pine Barrens Joint Planning and Policy Commission and Wertheim National Wildlife Refuge, Pine Barrens Discovery Day features nature walks, games, activities, and presentations about wildlife and environmentalism. In the first photo, Congressman Zeldin is pictured with his daughters at an activity table. In the second photo, Congressman Zeldin is pictured with Melissa Griffiths Parrott, the event organizer and Education and Outreach Coordinator for the Central Pine Barrens Joint Planning and Policy Commission.
09.18.2017	Mastic Beach, NY - On Saturday, September 16, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Pattersquash Creek Civic Association’s 10th Annual Harvest Festival in Mastic Beach, along with his two daughters, Arianna and Mikayla. The festival featured a live band, decorating station, balloon artist, and performances by Jester Jim (pictured above).
09.15.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced that the bipartisan Firefighter Cancer Registry Act (H.R. 931), legislation that he cosponsors and helped introduced, passed the House of Representatives on September 12, 2017. The Firefighter Cancer Registry Act would initiate the development of a registry through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to collect data regarding the incidence of cancer in firefighters. A 2015 study conducted by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health found that firefighters in the U.S. have a greater number of cancer diagnoses and cancer-related deaths. H.R. 931 would create a database that allows for research of any correlations, with the goal of implementing new safety procedures to keep firefighters safe. Congressman Zeldin said, “In Congress, one of my highest priorities is to support our police, firefighters, EMTs and other first responders, which is why I helped introduce and secure House passage of the Firefighter Cancer Registry Act. This important piece of legislation, which has strong bipartisan support with over 185 cosponsors, would establish a federal system to monitor and collect data regarding the connection between cancer and firefighting. Firefighters are exposed to situations where there is smoke inhalation and other harmful substances. Collecting data and researching this growing trend is imperative to develop new protocols and safeguards to best protect our firefighters. These brave men and women put their lives on the line each and every day to keep our communities safe and we must honor and support them for their acts of selfless courage and community leadership. Supporting these fellow Americans must always be a top priority. I will continue working in Congress to protect them, just as they support us each and every day.” Jay Egan, President of the Suffolk County Fire District Officers Association, said, “The Firefighter Cancer Registry Act, which passed the House with bipartisan support, will provide the resources necessary to further study the possible link between cancer and firefighting. Through research, we can best prepare firefighters to keep them safe and healthy. I thank Congressman Zeldin for cosponsoring and supporting this important bill.”
09.14.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced that the Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act (H.R.3697), legislation that he cosponsors, passed the House of Representatives on September 14, 2017. The Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act would amend the Immigration and Nationality Act to detain and remove illegal aliens who participate in criminal gang activity, and barr gang members from coming to the United States. The bill also prevents criminal alien gang members from eligibility for immigration benefits, such as asylum, special immigrant juvenile status, and temporary protected status. Additionally, the Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act also provides local law enforcement with the resources they need to deport illegal alien gang members. The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has found that members of violent transnational gangs are comprised largely of foreign-born nationals. Congressman Zeldin said, “I proudly cosponsored and supported House passage of the Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act to combat gang violence by illegal aliens and protect our local communities. This bill closes the dangerous loopholes that currently exist in immigration law, by adding stronger vetting standards to block anyone who may be suspected of gang activity from entering the United States, expediting and prioritizing their removal if they are arrested for being in the country illegally or commit a gang related crime, and most importantly barring temporary protective status (TPS) and similar other immigration statuses to anyone suspected of gang activity. The rise in gang violence is hitting home in the most personal and tragic way in Suffolk County, where we’ve seen ongoing violence perpetrated by MS-13 and other Central American gangs taking innocent lives and threatening the safety of our communities. This violence is ruining lives, wreaking havoc, and causing irreparable and devastating harm to families. It must be stopped. Just one of the many recent incidents in our community took place this past April when four young men were murdered by MS-13. Two of the victims, Justin Llivicura, of East Patchogue, New York, and Jorge Tigre, of Bellport, New York, were residents of the First Congressional District. These young men were senselessly and brutally murdered by MS-13 gang members using machetes. There have been so many other horrible crimes committed by MS-13 gang members that have included gang rape, human trafficking, drug trafficking, and more. In Congress, I will continue to support legislation to reform our broken immigration system and keep illegal gang activity off our streets to make our neighborhoods safer and improve our quality of life.”
09.14.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) today issued a reminder for applicants seeking a Congressional nomination to a Military Service Academy that the deadline to submit the completed application is Friday, September 29, 2017. All supplemental documentation is due by Friday, October 6, 2017. Members of Congress may nominate candidates for appointment to four of the five U.S. service academies: U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY; U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD; U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO; and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY. The fifth service academy, U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA), New London, CT, does not require a congressional nomination for appointment. All applicants must be a current, legal resident of the First Congressional District of New York. The honor of attending a service academy comes with the obligation and commitment to serve in the military for a minimum of five years upon graduation. To apply for a congressional nomination, all applicants must submit the following information to Congressman Zeldin’s office: Completed application, which can be found online at https://zeldin.house.gov/services/military-academy-nominations; Three (3) letters of recommendation; Official high school transcript and college transcript (if applicable); SAT/ACT scores; and Brief essay detailing the decision to apply to a U.S. Service Academy (500 words max). Following the receipt of this information, each candidate will be assigned a date and time to come to Congressman Zeldin’s Long Island Office for an in-person interview with the Congressman’s Service Academy Review Committee. A nomination through any capacity does not guarantee acceptance into any of the academies, although it is required. Each applicant is still responsible for applying to each service academy directly.Congressman Zeldin said, “Each year, I have the honor and privilege of nominating the best and brightest students from the First Congressional District as candidates for appointment to our U.S. Service Academies. Our Service Academies offer students a high quality education and train our future leaders. I encourage all applicants who are interested in attending a U.S. Service Academy to apply before the deadline. If you have any questions, please feel free to contact my office at (631) 289-1097.”
09.13.2017	Washington, DC - On Wednesday, September 13, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) delivered a speech on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to bring awareness to the “Campaign for Decency,” which was launched by Lisa Cholnoky, a part time resident of the First Congressional District of New York. This morning, prior to the speech, Congressman Zeldin met with Ms. Cholnoky in the Capitol. The Congressman is pictured above with Lisa, both wearing their “Decency” buttons, on the Speaker’s Balcony, which overlooks the National Mall, and in front of the President Abraham Lincoln statue in the Capitol. Ms. Cholnoky was able to watch from the House gallery as the Congressman gave his speech live from the House floor. You can view Congressman Zeldin’s floor speech here, or by clicking the video below. A transcript of the speech is below. “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to bring awareness to the ‘Campaign for Decency,’ which was launched by Lisa Cholnoky, a part time resident of my district. Operating out of the First Congressional District of New York, in Shelter Island, the Campaign for Decency is a nonpartisan organization that seeks to bring civility back to our nation. Ms. Cholnoky was inspired to launch this campaign after witnessing much of the bitter division in our country, and the inability of many Americans to engage in civil, productive discussion. As Americans, we cherish our freedom to dissent, but must always bear in mind that these debates should be productive and substantive. In July 2017, Ms. Cholnoky mailed out 535 Decency buttons to every single Representative and Senator. She describes the campaign as ‘a simple reminder of the basic standard of decency that every American deserves, regardless of their political views.’ I am proudly wearing this button here today to join in Ms. Cholnoky’s call for unity both here in Congress, and together as citizens of the greatest country on Earth. This campaign sets an example for us all to abide by, as we strive to reach across the aisle in a bipartisan fashion. Thank you Mr. Speaker, I yield back."
09.13.2017	Washington, DC - On Wednesday, September 13, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) delivered a speech on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in honor of Nicholas Lafond of Miller Place, NY, who passed away last month from a heroin overdose. During the speech, Congressman Zeldin shared Nick’s story, and discussed the need to prevent further loss of life from the heroin and opioid abuse epidemic. You can view Congressman Zeldin’s floor speech here, or by clicking the video below. A transcript of the speech is below. “Thank you, Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to the memory of Nicholas Lafond a young man from Miller Place in New York’s First Congressional District, who just a couple weeks back, was taken from us far too soon due to the disease of addiction. A bright, intelligent, and talented young man, Nick was loved by all who knew him. He was an honor student who was accepted to Stony Brook University with the intention of pursuing a career in education. However, from a young age, Nick struggled with anxiety, which sadly led him down the path to heroin addiction as a teenager. He fought this addiction tirelessly with the love and support of his family and friends, and sought several forms of treatment. Tragically, just last month, Nick lost his battle with addiction at the age of 25. On August 31st, I attended a press conference in recognition of International Overdose Awareness Day, where I met Nick’s parents, Francine and Leonard Lafond, and discussed their son who had been laid to rest only two days prior. The courage of these heartbroken parents to come to this event and talk about Nick so soon after his passing is absolutely incredible. As a father, the thought of losing a child is unbearable. Through my discussion with Mr. and Mrs. Lafond, you could feel their commitment to fighting this terrible epidemic so that no other parent would have to go through this experience. Shortly after our discussion, I received a letter from the Lafonds detailing Nick’s story and outlining so many of the steps we can take as a community to make drug addiction a thing of the past. From their words, you can feel their passion for this cause. Though it is too late to save their son, Francine and Leonard have dedicated themselves to easing the grip of addiction upon our society. Their selflessness and bravery in face of unthinkable tragedy is truly beyond compare. Mr. Speaker, I am honored to stand here and share Nick’s story with you and the American people, and to discuss this critical priority. Every single day, Americans like this young man fall victim to drug addiction. It is one of the absolute greatest threats we face as a nation, and it will not subside unless we continue to act. Here in my home county of Suffolk, heroin and opioid abuse is an especially deadly and destructive scourge. There is no one solution to ending the drug epidemic; this is a complex issue involving all levels of government, our community leaders, law enforcement, schools, churches, and everyday Americans. We must form a collaborative effort to discuss and develop localized community based solutions to tackle this crisis, by increasing treatment, recovery services, and education. Simple incarceration is not, and will never be, the lone answer to this crisis. In the last Congress, I was proud to have cosponsored and helped pass into law the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (S. 524), or CARA, which provides a total of $8.3 billion in funding over five years to help combat the heroin and opioid abuse epidemic, and funds many initiatives on the local level. While this is a step in the right direction, it is not enough to truly end this plague upon our nation. As Francine wrote to me in her letter, “To make headway against this awful epidemic, the approach MUST be multifocal, swift and forceful. We not only need dollars to be put toward law enforcement and treatment, both of which we know have limited effect. We also need to concentrate on addressing the underlying psychological issues that lead to opioid use. These are not drugs one uses to ‘party’, they are extremely strong and effective pain killers one uses to escape life. The world is a harsh place for kids today, so much different than when I or even you were young.” The complexity of this issue is unrivaled, and we cannot turn a blind eye to any potential effort. This needs to be a highest priority to resolve. We can not rest until tragic incidents like what happened to Nick Lafond become a thing of the past. I’d like to read a poem Nick wrote while in rehab, only weeks before his passing, which describes his tragic struggle. Anxiety is life to me Mixed with some sobriety Throw in notoriety This is my anxiety. Always looking over my shoulder Will this get better as I get older? Carrying it around like a boulder This is my anxiety. Dark holes and deep depression Popping pill after pill in rapid succession How did I not see the progression? This is my anxiety. Days to weeks, weeks to months, and months to years Why is my head constantly filled with fears? Keep a straight face, don’t shed any tears This is my anxiety. Waking up to go to sleep Climbing this mountain seems so steep Close to the edge, I’ll surely leap This is my anxiety. Thank you Mr. Speaker, I yield back.”
09.13.2017	Washington, DC - On Tuesday, September 12, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met in his Washington, DC office with members of the American Cancer Society from Long Island, including NY-1 constituent, Stephanie Chapelliquen of Miller Place. The American Cancer Society is an organization dedicated to ending cancer through research and patient support. Topics of discussion during the meeting included funding for the National Cancer Institute (NCI) within the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and several pieces of healthcare legislation. Pictured above, from left to right, are Ms. Chapelliquen, Congressman Zeldin, Phil Rubin of Syosset, and Rob Stolberg of East Meadow.
09.11.2017	On Thursday, August 31, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) surprised several NY-1 constituents at a McDonald’s restaurant in Shirley as part of “Undercover Congressman”, which is when Rep. Zeldin works local jobs to highlight the many occupations throughout the NY-1 community. During the visit, Congressman Zeldin served several NY-1 constituents, and met with the restaurant’s employees and management to discuss the restaurant’s operations. This included a father and daughter who own and operate nine McDonald's restaurants on Long Island, as well as a father and son-in-law who own and operate six McDonald's restaurants on Long Island, including the restaurant in Shirley. In the above photos, Congressman Zeldin is pictured serving several patrons. He is also pictured with McDonald’s employees and management. Click here to view more photos from Congressman Zeldin’s visit.
09.11.2017	On the morning of September 11, 2001, Americans awoke and prepared for what appeared to be a normal Tuesday, unaware that their lives, and their world, would soon be changed forever. Soon we would shockingly be thrown into a moment of total disbelief of the worst kind as the largest terrorist attack in history would be carried out on our homeland. Unless too young or not yet born, we all would forever remember exactly where we were at that very moment that the towers fell. For all of us here in New York's First Congressional District, these attacks struck a most personal chord in ways once thought unimaginable. So many family members, friends, and neighbors were possibly within the vicinity of these attacks and Long Islanders very anxiously awaited assurances that loved ones were safe; some received the most devastating news possible. Like most Americans, many on Long Island could only helplessly watch in horror as evil struck at the heart of our nation. For other Long Islanders, they would courageously and selflessly risk everything responding directly into the danger to help strangers. Many innocent Americans were murdered that day and what was once a normal Tuesday would forever change our lives and our world. On this 16th Anniversary, we renew our pledge to “Never Forget”. Nicholas P. Chiofalo of Selden, NY, was not like most Americans. An FDNY firefighter with Engine Company 235 in Brooklyn, as well as the Fire Chief for the Selden Fire Department, Mr. Chiofalo had already been on duty for 24 hours when the call came that there was an attack on the World Trade Center. Without a second thought, Mr. Chiofalo remained on his truck and traveled straight into Manhattan to selflessly serve the nation he loved so dearly. Aiming to save as many lives as possible, this hero in every sense of the word went into the South Tower three times to fulfill his mission. Along with his entire crew, Mr. Chiofalo perished when the South Tower collapsed. His sacrifice was not in vain though, and we will never forget what he did that day. Nicholas, among many others at the World Trade Center, Pentagon, and on United Airlines Flight 93, gave up their lives with infinite courage and honor that day. FDNY, NYPD, all firefighters, police officers, EMS personnel, and any other first responder who served on September 11th deserve our unyielding support. Many of our surviving 9/11 first responders continue to suffer from illnesses arising from their heroic work at Ground Zero. Exposure to the toxic fumes, ash, and debris have caused many to suffer from deadly illnesses and diseases, including cancer and lung disease. While they may have walked away from Ground Zero, many of these first responders have carried the deadly effects of these attacks ever since. That is why the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act continues to be so critically important for our 9/11 first responders and their families. Through this law, the World Trade Center Health Program and September 11th Victim Compensation Fund ensure proper care for those who answered the call that day and in the weeks and months to follow. These heroes must be provided every ounce of support we have to offer as citizens of the greatest nation on Earth, and we must never fall short in this essential obligation. We also honor all of the brave servicemen and women who have fought, bled, and fell in the war against terror over the past 16 years. The resolve of the United States led to significant actions taken to secure our country at home and abroad. Our nation’s courageous defenders have put themselves in the line of fire time and again in defense of our freedoms and liberties. We must remain eternally grateful for their countless sacrifices on our behalf. Like so many others, Nicholas Chiofalo did not wake up that fateful Tuesday with any idea that it would be his last. When that call came though that urgent help was needed at Ground Zero, he knew exactly what he needed to do to selflessly save his fellow man. As Americans, we will never forget what Nicholas and many others sacrificed that day. Despite the darkness of thousands of lives innocently lost, heroes like Nicholas Chiofalo fill our hearts and our nation with a strength that is so powerful and positive. That brightest light will surely never be forgotten nor should it ever.
09.06.2017	Has Lunch Meeting with Midshipmen from NY-1 Annapolis, MD - On Tuesday, September 5, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) toured the U.S. Naval Academy (USNA) in Annapolis, Maryland. While touring the Service Academy, the Congressman met with Vice Admiral Walter E. “Ted” Carter, who is the 62nd Superintendent of the U.S. Naval Academy. Congressman Zeldin also had lunch with midshipmen from New York’s First Congressional District. In the first two photos above, Congressman Zeldin is pictured, center, with NY-1 midshipmen, as well as Captain Robert B. Chadwick II, USN, Commandant of Midshipmen, and two other members of Naval Academy personnel. The third photo above was taken during a midday U.S. Naval Academy formation.
09.06.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (NY-1) this week introduced new legislation in the House of Representatives, H.R. 3680, to make permanent a grant funding program that is expiring at the end of this year, the Supportive Services Veteran Families (SSVF) program, that provides financial assistance for supportive services for very low-income veteran families in permanent housing. You can view a copy of the bill here. According to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), on a single night in January 2016, there were 39,471 homeless veterans in the United States. Of those homeless veterans, 26,404 were staying in emergency shelters, transitional housing programs or safe havens while 13,067 veterans were found in places not suitable for human habitation. While veterans constituted only 9 percent of the U.S. adult population in 2015, they made up 11 percent of the U.S. homeless adult population. The Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) Program, which is authorized by Congress and administered by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has been a critical resource for helping low income and homeless veterans. The SSVF Program provides supportive services grants to private non-profit organizations and consumer cooperatives, which in turn coordinate and/or provide supportive services to very low-income veteran families. Entities receiving supportive services grants must utilize the funds to provide supportive outreach services to homeless veterans and their families. The services include but are not limited to case management services, assistance in obtaining VA benefits, and support in obtaining and coordinating other public benefits available in the grantee’s area or community. In addition, the organizations provide temporary financial assistance to veterans as needed. SSVF prioritizes the delivery of rapid re-housing services to homeless veteran households, an intervention designed to help individuals and families exit homelessness, return to housing in the community, and avoid homelessness again in the near term. Currently, the SSVF program must be reauthorized by Congress every five years. Congressman Zeldin’s bill would make this program permanent. In 2017, the VA awarded $587,328,694 in 367 individual SSVF grants to organizations across the country. In Suffolk County, $9,445,001 of SSVF grants enabled three organizations to provide services to homeless veterans. Congressman Zeldin said, “Supporting our nation’s veterans and ensuring all veterans across this great nation receive the proper treatment, care and support is a responsibility we all share. These brave men and women answered the call to service and repeatedly put their lives at risk to support and defend our Constitution and ensure the safety and security of our country. Although homelessness among veterans has decreased since 2010, the issue remains one of national significance – even one homeless veteran is too many. I am proud to introduce legislation which will ensure these heroes receive much needed support services. The SSVF program is fundamental to our efforts to end veteran homelessness as it enables organizations across the country to provide shelter and essential services to members of the veteran community in need. Extending these grants affirms our commitment to ending veteran homelessness across the country and preserves the important programs that so many of our veterans rely upon. Ensuring our homeless veterans have shelter and a safe place to live should never be a partisan issue. Congress must pass this bill and make the SSVF program permanent.” “We thank Congressman Zeldin for introducing this bill that would make permanent the SSVF program, eliminating the need for future reauthorizations,” said Adrian Fassett, C.E.O. of the Economic Opportunity Council of Suffolk, Inc. “Through this vital program, EOC of Suffolk, Inc. looks forward to continuing to provide housing and other critical support services for low-income homeless Veterans.” Tom Ronayne, Director of Suffolk County Veterans Service Agency, said, “SSVF has enabled countless veterans to either remain in familiar living environments or provide them with opportunities to get into a safer, more secure and stable living environment. The ripple effect of this is that veterans and their family members remain employed or become more employable. We are very concerned that SSVF remains in place, especially here in Suffolk County where we have one of the largest veteran populations in the country. I wholeheartedly support Congressman Zeldin’s efforts to permanently secure it.” “Since Services for the UnderServed (SUS) began working with Long Island’s veterans through the Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) grant in 2013, we have been able to assist over 2,000 veterans with housing and homelessness prevention services in Nassau and Suffolk Counties. This has had a life-changing impact on veterans and their families. Sadly, homelessness will continue to affect many, and having SSVF in place to help veterans in their time of need is of the utmost importance. SUS fully supports Congressman Zeldin’s proposal to permanently extend the SSVF grant,” said Beth Gabellini, MS, LMSW, Regional Director, Veterans Division Long Island, Services for the UnderServed. “SSVF plays a critical role in preventing veterans’ homelessness and rapidly rehousing veterans in the event that they become homeless. Without this crucial funding, the incredible progress the Long Island community has made in ending veterans homelessness would be impossible. The Supportive Housing Network of New York supports legislation to make this life-saving resource permanent,” said Laura Mascuch, Executive Director, Supportive Housing Network of New York.
09.05.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement ahead of the Trump Administration's announcement this morning on the future of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA): "The Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) policy was started by the Obama administration in June 2012, allowing illegal immigrants who entered our country as minors to receive a renewable two-year period of deferred action from deportation and eligibility for a work permit. If the Obama administration wanted to implement the DACA program, it should have made the case to Congress and try to pass its proposal into law. The administration absolutely did not have the authority to write its own 'laws'. If the proposal did not have the support to pass then it should not go into effect. That is how our process is designed and must be respected. I support legal immigration. I oppose illegal immigration. If you want to come to America and pursue the American dream, follow the rules. If you commit a crime and are deported, don't come back. Every nation's backbone is its rule of law. It is great to pursue the American dream and to consider yourself a 'dreamer' and everyone in the United States legally should consider themselves 'dreamers', but you have to follow our laws. Period. We should not reward or excuse criminal behavior. Many find the situation related to minors illegally in our country to be the most challenging. Many of these children involuntarily came to our country very young, have been here for a long time, go through our education system, love our country and are looking to stay here and greatly contribute to our economy and nation's future. What I struggle with the most is how you can possibly allow someone illegally in our country to be given preference over someone who is not in our country solely, because that individual abroad is following the rules and respecting our laws and as a result they are not yet here. I am completely open to a debate in Congress and among the American people on how to strengthen immigration laws in our country. The system is flawed as evidenced by the number of people currently in our country illegally as well as the preferences, protections and benefits awarded to people who are here illegally. My priority will always unapologetically remain with fighting for the people following the laws, rather than the ones breaking them. We can debate with each other who has our priorities set better until we are blue in the face, but that is where my heart, energy and commitment remains. As far as how to tackle this massive issue, when you have a leak, are you someone who turns off the faucet first or cleans up the leak first? I'm someone who believes that you should turn off the faucet first. We absolutely should attempt to completely resolve the challenges associated with all of the many millions of people who are in our country illegally, but not first without ensuring that the challenge doesn't multiply despite anyone's best of intentions to do what in their heart they truly believe is right. I can think of various circumstances where deportation won't be the solution, but a blanket rewarding and incentivizing of bad behavior is going to lead to even more abuse of our immigration system by others. We must secure the entry process into our country and strengthen interior enforcement. We should pursue common ground on what at all to do with people who are already in our country illegally, but proposals that recklessly actually increase the amount of people in our country illegally and incentivize disrespecting and abusing our laws on the books should not be supported. Let's pursue policies that incentivize respecting and honoring our laws on the books, not the other way around. Let's pursue solutions that better secure our entry process and strengthen interior enforcement so that agreements on what to do with people in our country illegally truly results responsibly in less people in our country illegally over time and not more. I am very much willing to work with any of my colleagues on either side of the aisle on this issue and others to find common ground however possible. I would also strongly encourage anyone on the opposite side of this debate to keep to themselves the character assassinations, name calling, partisan threats and over the top sound bite spin, because if you truly want to work out an agreement for progress, that is absolutely not at all how to get there. Working together productively and substantively, I am hugely confident that long overdue progress can absolutely be achieved at least in part to move the needle more in the right direction."
09.04.2017	Southampton, NY - On Saturday, September 2, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) and his family visited the 71st Annual Shinnecock Indian Powwow at the Shinnecock Reservation in Southampton. One of the largest Native American gatherings on the East Coast, the Shinnecock Indian Powwow is an annual celebration of American Indian culture that features different crafts, foods, arts, and much more. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with Autumn Rose Miskweminanocsqua Williams, right, who is this year’s Miss Native American USA.
09.01.2017	Mattituck, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited Mattituck today to meet with local fishermen from the East End to discuss the dire need for reforms to improve Long Island’s fishing economy, including fundamentally improving restrictions on catch limits, allocations, and quotas at the state and federal level. An integral part of this is the need to fundamentally reform the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (Magnuson-Stevens Act or MSA), which is the primary law that governs recreational and commercial fishing in the United States. Congressman Zeldin discussed with local fishermen their legislative priorities and the critical importance of reauthorizing and amending the MSA to help Long Island’s struggling coastal economy. Of serious concern for many local fishermen has been the recent closure of important fisheries like fluke, which has been closed for the month of September, and black sea bass, which was subject to closures earlier this summer. Local anglers rely upon these fisheries to keep their businesses afloat. In the case of fluke, New York’s low allocation and the NYDEC’s closure of that commercial fishery for the month of September are symptoms of the overarching problem of old data, questionable fisheries science, a deeply flawed appeals process, and the state of New York continually losing out to other states when regional bodies allocate fishing quotas. Congressman Zeldin and local fishermen discussed the critical need for bipartisan leadership and cooperation at all levels of government to drastically improve the way these regulatory decisions that impact Long Island’s coastal economy are made. Congressman Zeldin said, “So much of our economy and way of life are connected to the water around us here on Long Island. It was a privilege to meet with these hard working fishermen today to discuss so many of the challenges that must be addressed. The current management of our fisheries has created a web of unnecessary restrictions on our local anglers. These flaws are raising costs for commercial fishermen and charter boat captains, as well as all the small businesses that depend upon the coastal economy. There is so much that can be done to reinvigorate fishing, which is such a cherished part of our heritage here on Long Island. I have long worked hard to get various victories across the finish line for our fishermen, and I look forward to continuing to do so as the Representative of this island community. Tens of thousands of residents on Long Island and in surrounding areas depend upon these unique resources, and we must do more to protect this vital industry.” Representing a district almost entirely surrounded by salt water, fighting for Long Island’s fishermen and coastal economy has been a top priority for Congressman Zeldin since taking office. This Congress, Rep. Zeldin also reintroduced the Local Fishing Access Act (H.R. 1195), legislation which passed the House in the 114th Congress with a bipartisan, unanimous vote. This bill will provide Long Island fishermen with relief from confusing and burdensome regulations, by reforming the federal law that bans striped bass fishing in the Block Island transit zone, which are federal waters between Montauk, New York, and Block Island, Rhode Island.
08.31.2017	Farmingville, NY - On Thursday, August 31, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) delivered remarks at the International Overdose Awareness Day press conference at Brookhaven Town Hall in Farmingville. The press conference was hosted by Brookhaven Town Supervisor Edward Romaine and Brookhaven Town Clerk Donna Lent and was attended by several other elected officials, first responders, and other community leaders. During the press conference, Congressman Zeldin spoke about the critical role that education, prevention and rehabilitation have in tackling the heroin and opioid abuse epidemic. Representative Zeldin also spoke about the need to combat illegal drug trafficking. Congressman Zeldin, pictured above, center, delivering his remarks, was a cosponsor of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), which passed Congress and was signed into law.
08.31.2017	Patchogue, NY - On Thursday, August 31, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met in his Patchogue office with Nissequogue Village Mayor Richard Smith. During the meeting, Congressman Zeldin and Mayor Smith discussed several local issues, including possible grants for the village's fire service, ongoing recruitment of trained emergency response personnel, natural disaster preparedness and more. In the above photos, Congressman Zeldin is pictured, left, with Mayor Smith, right.
08.30.2017	Port Jefferson, NY - On Wednesday, August 30, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) held Mobile Office Hours at the Port Jefferson Village Center. During Mobile Office Hours, the Congressman met with many constituents to discuss a variety of topics, such as immigration, education, and tax reform. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, with Boy Scouts Jacob Belyea and Nick Ciminelli of Troop 362 in Selden, both of whom are working on their Communications and Citizenship in the Community merit badges.
08.30.2017	Upton, NY - On Thursday, August 10, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke at Brookhaven National Laboratory’s (BNL) 2017 Summer Internship Closing Ceremony. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above addressing students and faculty. During his speech, Congressman Zeldin discussed the importance of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM), and the need to fully support the incredible BNL mission.
08.29.2017	Farmingville, NY - On Monday, August 28, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted a Hurricane Preparedness Seminar at Brookhaven Town Hall in Farmingville, to provide residents with information regarding hurricane preparedness and recovery. This year, forecasters predict an above-normal hurricane season in the Atlantic. Hurricanes and tropical storms have the potential to cause serious damage to Long Island coastal and inland areas, including storm surge, heavy rainfall, coastal and inland flooding, high winds, and tornadoes. To help Long Islanders prepare for these types of storms, Congressman Zeldin hosted a seminar with representatives from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), American Red Cross and Suffolk County Fire Rescue and Emergency Services (FRES), who provided information to help residents prepare for, stay safe during, and recover from hurricane storm systems. Residents also learned more about how these organizations measure, track, and forecast hurricane activity. Congressman Zeldin said, “As we are witnessing in Texas with Hurricane Harvey, it is vitally important to be as prepared as possible in the case of a hurricane or tropical storm. New Yorkers unfortunately know this all too well. In 2012, Superstorm Sandy hit New York hard and devastated our coastal communities and businesses on Long Island, leaving mass destruction in it’s wake. This year, forecasters predict an above-normal hurricane season in the Atlantic. To best prepare, I organized a Hurricane Preparedness Seminar last night, where I was joined by Brookhaven Town Supervisor Ed Romaine and professionals from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), National Weather Service, American Red Cross and Suffolk County Fire Rescue and Emergency Services (FRES). The common message among all of the presentations was: BE PREPARED. The key is to be informed, make a plan, build an emergency kit, and get involved. I would like to especially thank Boy Scout Troop 301 for attending the event last night. I'd also like to thank the Boy Scouts of America for their work in aiding in the recovery effort in Texas. Whether it's food collection, on-site assistance, or other volunteer causes, members of this great organization have aided hurricane relief efforts for decades. If any constituent ever needs information on hurricane preparedness or otherwise needs assistance, they are always encouraged to contact my office at (631) 289-1097.”
08.29.2017	Riverhead, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced today that the Cornell Cooperative Extension Association of Suffolk County has been awarded a $120,000 Community-based Marine Debris Removal Grant from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). This grant funding will be used to remove derelict fishing gear from the Long Island Sound. The presence of this debris has a negative impact on many species within the Sound through entanglement and ghost-fishing, and it is imperative that the gear be removed. Congressman Zeldin said, “The Long Island Sound is a treasured part of our life, culture, and economy that provides a diverse ecosystem with more than 170 species of fish. Derelict fishing gear causes significant damage to marine habitat, and it is so important that we work to remove this debris and that it be properly recycled or disposed of. This $120,000 grant will go a long way to help the Cornell Cooperative Extension of Suffolk County advance this essential cause. Safeguarding our environment and natural resources is one of my top priorities in Congress, and I am proud to do my part to advocate for funding like this which supports our district.” “Cornell Cooperative Extension of Suffolk County is thankful for this NOAA grant and excited to continue our valuable work with several partners to build upon the successes of this project that provides the multiple benefits of marine habitat restoration, retrieved materials recycling or proper disposal and education,” Vito A. Minei, P.E., Executive Director of the Cornell Cooperative Extension of Suffolk County. Established in 1970, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) studies climate, weather, oceans, fisheries, and coastal science to support economic vitality and provides planners and emergency managers with resources and information. This past May, Congressman Zeldin voted to fund NOAA at $5.77 billion, including a $62 million increase in research funding to $3.37 billion, and full funding for the Marine Debris Program, $500,000 above the President's request (H.R. 244, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2017).
08.29.2017	Mastic, NY – On Monday, August 28, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) helped build a home in Mastic, NY, with Habitat for Humanity. Founded in 1976, Habitat for Humanity is a nonprofit organization that builds homes and helps establish self-dependency for people and families in need. Habitat for Humanity works in approximately 70 countries around the world, and has helped millions of people. In the photos above, Congressman Zeldin is pictured helping build the home with fellow volunteers.
08.28.2017	Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) just released the following statement today following last month’s murder in Greenport of Ms. Michelle Schiavoni, allegedly by an illegal alien who was previously deported from the United States, Mr. Jaime DeLeon-Tino. “Mr. Jaime De Leon-Tino, who was previously deported from the United States, was once again in our country illegally without authorization after the first removal. He illegally entered our country, was deported, re-entered illegally, and is now being detained for the murder of an innocent NY-1 resident and U.S. citizen. Where did the system fail? If convicted of the crime, Mr. DeLeon-Tino should serve the max time and then be deported immediately. To prevent the tragic and senseless murder of innocent Americans, the federal government should increase penalties for those who return after they are deported. When the United States deports criminals, it is essential that they do not return to do us additional harm.” Congressman Zeldin cosponsors H.R. 3004 or “Kate’s Law,” which would mandate a five-year prison sentence for illegal immigrants who return following deportation. This bill was introduced in the 114th Congress by Congressman Matt Salmon of Arizona in the wake of Kathryn Steinle’s murder at the hands of Francisco Sanchez, a seven-time convicted felon and an illegal immigrant who had been deported from the United States five times. Kate’s Law passed the House of Representatives with Congressman Zeldin’s support on June 29, 2017. The bill now awaits action in the U.S. Senate.
08.28.2017	Ronkonkoma, NY – On Friday, August 25, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited Liberty Landing in Ronkonkoma. Liberty Landing is a supportive housing development which helps veterans struggling with homelessness. During the visit, Congressman Zeldin met with several veterans and discussed efforts to combat homelessness in the community. In the above photos, Congressman Zeldin is pictured with veterans and family members.
08.25.2017	Patchogue, NY – On Friday, August 25, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met in his Patchogue office with Colonel Thomas D. Asbery, the new Commander and District Engineer, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, NY District. During this introductory meeting, the Congressman and Col. Asbery discussed several important coastal projects throughout the First Congressional District. In the above photos, Congressman Zeldin is pictured, right, with Col. Asbery, left.
08.25.2017	Peconic, NY – On Thursday, August 24, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited Krupski Farm in Peconic as part of this month’s NY-1 Economic Growth Tour. Congressman Zeldin is touring NY-1’s businesses, large and small, to meet with employers and employees to discuss their needs and priorities. During the visit, the Congressman discussed agriculture and economic policies with the Krupskis and also helped harvest some of the farm’s produce. In the above photo, Congressman Zeldin, right, is pictured with County Legislator and Krupski Farm owner Al Krupski, left, and his son, Nick, center, who is also a Southold Town Trustee.
08.24.2017	Greenport, NY – On Thursday, August 24, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) toured Harbor Light Oyster Farm, a startup small business in Greenport, where their oysters are raised “dockside,” utilizing mostly solar power, as the next stop of his NY-1 Economic Growth Tour. Throughout August, Congressman Zeldin has been touring NY-1’s businesses, large and small, to meet with employers and employees and discuss their top priorities to create more good paying, private sector jobs and grow their enterprises here on Long Island. During the visit, Congressman Zeldin was able to witness the facility’s operation and discuss the impact of oyster harvesting on our local economy. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, with staff members of the oyster farm.
08.24.2017	Flanders, NY – On Thursday, August 24, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited the David Crohan Community Center in Flanders, NY, with the Island Harvest Food Bank to serve lunch to children from the community. The largest hunger relief organization on Long Island, Island Harvest Food Bank is dedicated to ending hunger and reducing food waste in the area. During their Summer Food Service Program, the Bank supported 83 sites and more than 6,000 children with breakfasts, lunches, and snacks. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, center, with children at the Community Center.
08.24.2017	Ridge, NY – On Wednesday, August 23, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) surprised several NY-1 constituents within the Leisure Village senior living community with Meals on Wheels prepared meals, alongside Brookhaven Town Supervisor Ed Romaine, as part of “Undercover Congressman”. Operated through a network of more than 5,000 independently-run local programs, Meals on Wheels is a non-profit organization that delivers nutritious meals to seniors right to their homes. During “Undercover Congressman”, one of the many outreach efforts being held this month, Rep. Zeldin works local jobs to highlight the many occupations throughout the NY-1 community. In the above photos, Congressman Zeldin is pictured with Supervisor Romaine and the meal recipients.
08.23.2017	Patchogue, NY – On Monday, August 21, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted a meeting with members of the New York Housing Conference in his Patchogue office. The New York Housing Conference is a group dedicated to supporting the development and preservation of affordable housing for all New Yorkers. During the meeting, the group discussed affordable housing within NY-1, as well as H.R. 1661, the Affordable Housing Credit Improvement Act. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, with members of the group.
08.23.2017	Patchogue, NY - On Friday, August 11, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) toured the Best Buy location in Patchogue as the next stop of this month’s NY-1 Economic Growth Tour. Throughout this month, Congressman Zeldin is touring businesses throughout NY-1, large and small, to meet with employers and employees and discuss ways they can grow their businesses here on Long Island to create more good paying, private sector jobs. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, center left, with staff at the Patchogue Best Buy, including Greg Port, District Manager, left. During the visit, Congressman Zeldin was shown many of the latest, most innovative products sold at the facility, and discussed how reforming and simplifying the tax code can help their business grow and promote job creation.
08.23.2017	Patchogue, NY – On Monday, August 21, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with several non-profit and charity organizations in his Patchogue office, including Long Island Cares, the Viscardi Center, and the EAC Network. One of the many outreach efforts that Congressman Zeldin is hosting this month, “Lunch with Lee” is an opportunity to connect with NY-1 constituents and groups. Topics of discussion during the meeting included combating the heroin epidemic and homelessness, funding for social programs, and more. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, center, with members of these organizations.
08.22.2017	Op-ed Written by Congressman Lee Zeldin (NY-01) Built upon historic grounds in Shoreham, New York, by one of the most brilliant minds ever known, the Tesla Science Center at Wardenclyffe is an inspirational museum on the verge of a rebirth that not only holds a rich history, but also great potential. Serving as the home for both Stony Brook University and Brookhaven National Laboratory, Long Island is a thriving community for science and technology, and supporting the Center’s mission is vital to continuing this great tradition. Understanding the history behind this site and its creator is an important part of comprehending the need to support its mission. Nikola Tesla was one of the most brilliant scientists and inventors in human history whose legacy is sadly unknown by far too many. Tesla revolutionized the way we use electricity, making possible many of the basic necessities we take for granted every single day. His work has resulted in incredible advancements in radar and X-ray technology, energy, remote control and so much more. To continue these groundbreaking achievements, Tesla built the Wardenclyffe laboratory in 1901. Sadly, financial hardships and patent issues prevented this visionary from being able to conduct significant testing before much of the equipment was confiscated by creditors, forcing Tesla to abandon the project altogether, unrealized in its potential. Multiple companies came to own the grounds in the years to follow, but it was ultimately left dormant in 1987, with some believing it would be demolished. However, Friends of Science East, Inc. saw an opportunity to make proper use of the site and began talks with Suffolk County, Shoreham Village, and other entities in an effort to acquire the property. In 2012, an internet fundraising campaign, which raised $1.37 million, resulted in a successful purchase of this amazing property. Recognizing that Tesla never received the respect he had more than earned, this campaign sought to embrace this pioneer’s legacy and give him his long overdue recognition. Now, over a century later, we have the opportunity to follow through on this untapped potential and turn these grounds into a site of scientific exploration and discovery once again. This effort will convert these grounds into a science and technology museum that features a number of programs and exhibits, including lectures from visiting professors and experts, mentoring for children, an exhibit dedicated to highlighting the accomplishments of Tesla himself, and even possible incubator space. An education firmly rooted in the sciences has become essential in the 21st century, and encouraging Americans to pursue the paths which lead to high paying jobs in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) fields begins with supporting facilities like this one. In April, I had the pleasure of visiting the Center to tour the facility and meet with its leaders. Last month, I also attended a great summer exhibit for the Center in Stony Brook. Enriching scientific discovery in our district should be an all hands on deck community effort. Just as we must support STEM majors for university students, allowing our youth to gain an interest in the sciences from a young age is absolutely crucial, and the Tesla Science Center will provide this critical resource. The Center holds so much potential for Long Island and our scientific community, and we now have the opportunity to revive this site so that it may serve our district for generations to come. Nikola Tesla revolutionized society as we know it, and now, in 2017, we have the ability to fulfill his unrealized legacy at a time when education in the sciences is all the more imperative. I am proud to do my part in Congress to secure science funding for our district. We must never allow our children to lose their love of learning, and aiding the Tesla Science Center to become a hotspot for scientific exploration must be front and center in this mission. Congressman Lee Zeldin, member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and House Financial Services Committee, represents the First Congressional District of New York.
08.21.2017	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, just released a statement following the President’s speech tonight, where President Trump outlined United States strategy in Afghanistan: “President Trump tonight outlined key components of our nation’s Afghanistan strategy, which will be based on conditions on the ground, not arbitrary deadlines, and will improve the integration of diplomatic, economic and military options to support our interests in the country. While training additional Afghan military and law enforcement personnel, there are also other factors that must be considered as part of a winning strategy. Those include: (1) A more stable political environment in Afghanistan; (2) The Afghan government taking control over more territory within its country; (3) Disbanding more of the opposition forces that exist, especially Al Qaeda and the Islamic State threat that exists to the United States; and (4) Improving the security situation in the mountainous border. The President’s strategy also holds accountable nations like Pakistan, that continue to harbor terrorists who pose a threat to our security, and seeks to strengthen strategic partnerships with nations in the region such as India, that share our common goal of a stable Afghanistan and region. I have always believed that we should never send our troops into harm's way unless they are sent with a clear strategy to win. We must send our troops to win or not send them at all. Success is the only option. We must also ensure that our commanders on the ground have the resources and flexibility they need to implement their plans. For years, we have been trying not to lose in Afghanistan. Now is the time to win and end this never ending war altogether.” Last Christmas, Congressman Zeldin traveled with a bipartisan Congressional Delegation (CODEL) to Afghanistan and other countries in the CENTCOM area of operations. While in Afghanistan, Congressman Zeldin met with GEN John Nicholson, Jr. and other top civilian and military leadership to discuss operations in theater. Read more here.
08.21.2017	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, just released a statement in anticipation of the President’s speech tonight, where the President is expected to outline his strategy in Afghanistan: “It is time to bring the never ending war in Afghanistan to an end. A hasty pullout today though would absolutely backfire. What the President should do tonight is clearly lay out a strategy to win and do so in short order: (1) A more stable political environment in Afghanistan; (2) The Afghan government taking control over more territory within its country; (3) Disbanding more of the opposition forces that exist, especially Al Qaeda and the Islamic State threat that exists to the United States; and (4) Improving the security situation in the mountainous border. I believe that we should never send our troops into harm's way unless they are sent with a clear strategy to win. Send our troops to win or do not send them at all. Set them up for success as the only option. If our military generals are confident that a few thousand more service members are going to get that done to end this war entirely, that is not only a strategy that should have been implemented years ago, but that is a strategy that I would support now to end this war quickly. For years, we have been trying not to lose in Afghanistan. It is time to win now and end this war altogether.” Last Christmas, Congressman Zeldin traveled with a bipartisan Congressional Delegation (CODEL) to Afghanistan and other countries in the CENTCOM area of operations. While in Afghanistan, Congressman Zeldin met with GEN John Nicholson, Jr. and other top civilian and military leadership to discuss operations in theater. Read more here.
08.21.2017	Riverhead, NY – On Saturday, August 19, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the 43rd Annual Polish Town Fair in Riverhead, where he met with many NY-1 residents and local vendors. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, center, with WLNG's Brian Bannon, left, and Lisa Dabrowski, right.
08.21.2017	Patchogue, NY - On Friday, August 18, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) held several meetings with NY-1 constituents in his District Office. Many concerns were discussed during these meetings, including public transportation and health care. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, center, during one of these meetings, alongside SILO Transportation Committee Chairperson Marilyn Tucci, left, and Paul Pressman, right.
08.21.2017	Northport, NY - On Friday, August 18, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited the Northport VA Medical Center (VAMC) to meet with D. Scott Guermonprez, the newly installed Director of Northport VAMC. During the meeting, Congressman welcomed the new Director, and among several other topics, the two discussed ways to improve communication between the facility and elected officials to ensure the best possible service for Long Island’s veterans. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with Director Guermonprez, right.
08.18.2017	Port Jefferson, NY – On Friday, August 18, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended a “Coffee with Your Congressman” restaurant roundtable at PJ’s Lobster House in Port Jefferson, hosted by the National Restaurant Association and New York State Restaurant Association, to meet with several local restaurant operators. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, with several restaurant operators, including James Luciano, owner of PJ’s Lobster House; Francesca and Atsushi Nakagawa, owners of Slurp; and Joe Dazzo of Dunkin' Brands. Congressman Zeldin said, “Today’s restaurant roundtable was a great opportunity to speak directly with local business owners and get feedback on issues affecting their day-to-day operations. I was pleased to join the New York State Restaurant Association, National Restaurant Association, and restaurant owners from our community this afternoon to discuss many important topics, such as health care, taxes, and how small businesses and restaurants boost our local economy and quality of life. I am committed to working with our small business owners to support them as they continue to grow commerce here on Long Island.” “On behalf of the New York State Restaurant Association, we thank Congressman Zeldin for meeting with restaurant owners from across the district today. Direct dialogue with our representatives in Congress offer an important opportunity to voice the concerns of business owners on a number of issues,” said Melissa Fleischut, President and CEO of the New York State Restaurant Association.
08.17.2017	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement today in response to the terrorist attack in Barcelona, Spain. ISIS has reportedly claimed responsibility for the attack. “It has been reported that at least 12 people were tragically and senselessly murdered and more than 80 others injured as a result of yet another terribly unnecessary terrorist attack abroad; this time in Barcelona, Spain. Americans are united in prayer and resolve with all of the victims, their families, and the great people of Spain. Way too often, we are reminded that Islamic terrorists do not just pose a threat to the Middle East. Terrorists threaten peace and democracy all around the world, and the number of attacks against innocent people only continues to rise. We all must do more to protect the innocent and defeat all who threaten peace in the name of Islam. Now more than ever, there must be a renewed focus on defeating these radical Islamic terrorists abroad, or we will face them more and more at home. A stronger, more effective, and more collaborative foreign policy and terror-fighting policy is key.”
08.17.2017	Eastport, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced today that the Eastport Fire District has been awarded a $313,334 grant for communication equipment through the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. Funding from this regional grant will be used at the Eastport, East Moriches and Westhampton Beach fire districts. Congressman Zeldin said, “I am proud to announce that this essential funding has been awarded to the Eastport, East Moriches and Westhampton Beach fire districts to update important communication equipment, such as pagers, phones and radios, which are relied upon by our local first responders. Our firefighters put their lives on the line everyday to protect our communities, and ensuring they have access to the best possible equipment must always be a top priority.” Thomas Collins, Commissioner of the Eastport Fire District, said, “On behalf of the residents of the Eastport, East Moriches, and Westhampton Beach Fire Districts, we would like to thank Congressman Zeldin for his assistance in obtaining this award. Fire grants provide a path to increase firefighter safety, enhance fire safety in our communities, and keep taxes down while improving compliance with national standards.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) helps fire departments, emergency medical service organizations, and other first responders receive the necessary equipment, vehicles, training, and other resources needed to ensure public safety. In May 2017, Congressman Zeldin voted for HR 244, which was signed into law. This legislation funded the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program at $345 million dollars, which was $10 million above the President's request. Congressman Zeldin and his staff have also met with a number of Fire Departments across the district to assist them with securing grant funding and discuss a number of communication equipment and other related issues.
08.16.2017	Smithtown, NY – On Wednesday, August 16, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) held Mobile Office Hours at the Smithtown Fire Department. Many NY-1 constituents met with the Congressman to discuss several topics, including Social Security, veterans’ affairs, health care, and other issues. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with Seymour Jaffee of Kings Park, right, a Korean War veteran.
08.14.2017	Patchogue, NY - On Friday, August 11, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) presented a Purple Heart to the family of PFC Roy B. DeWitt, a World War II veteran who served in the U.S. Army. Much of his family now lives throughout the First Congressional District. The Purple Heart Medal was established by General George Washington at Newburgh, New York, in 1782, during the Revolutionary War. It was re-established by the President of the United States per War Department General Orders in 1932. The Purple Heart is limited to members of the Armed Forces of the United States who, while serving our country, are wounded, killed, or have since died due to wounds received during battle. It is awarded in the name of the President of the United States. On August 28, 1942, at age 25, PFC DeWitt enlisted in the U.S. Army and was assigned to the 101st Airborne Division, 401st Glider Infantry Regiment, and the 82nd Airborne Division, 325th Glider Infantry Regiment, Company 3HQ. In September 1944, he received a gunshot wound to the foot during “Operation Market Garden.” Following this battle, he was captured by the Germans and held as a Prisoner of War at Stalag 12A in Belgium. He died in captivity there on November 2, 1944, from an apparent fracture to the back of his skull. He is buried in Belgium at the American War Cemetery in Ardennes. For his selfless military service, PFC DeWitt received the Prisoner of War Medal, Army Good Conduct Medal, American Campaign Medal, World War II Victory Medal, European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal with Arrowhead Device and bronze service star, and the Glider Badge. On Friday, August 11, 2017, Congressman Zeldin presented PFC DeWitt’s family with the Purple Heart on behalf of a grateful nation. Congressman Zeldin said, “PFC DeWitt was a selfless and dedicated American, who served our country heroically. His military service and ultimate sacrifice during World War II demonstrate the highest principles of our great nation. I am proud to posthumously present him with a Purple Heart to honor his courageous service to the United States.”
08.12.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), who is currently away this weekend on Army Reserve Duty, released the following statement in response to today’s violence in Charlottesville, Virginia: “I am closely following the protests that turned violent today in Charlottesville. These violent acts inspired by deep hatred are disgusting, un-American, and unwelcome in our great nation. Differences will always exist and it is ok to disagree in America, but the violence taking place today in Charlottesville is absolutely not the right way to disagree with each other. We can and must do more to unite as a nation. There must be zero tolerance whatsoever for the extremes that try to tear us all apart. Patriotic Americans of all walks of life must come together and bridge those divides for the sake of our country and our people.”
08.10.2017	Hauppauge, NY – On Thursday, August 10, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) made his third stop of this month’s NY-1 Economic Growth Tour at Finish Line Technologies in Hauppauge, New York. Throughout August, Congressman Zeldin is touring NY-1’s businesses, large and small, to meet with employers and employees and discuss their top priorities to grow their businesses here on Long Island and create more good paying, private sector jobs. Finish Line Technologies is a manufacturer of bicycle lubricants and care products, such as chain lubricants, drivetrain degreasers, and specialty suspension and brake fluids. During the visit to Finish Line, which employs 40 Long Islanders, Congressman Zeldin toured the manufacturing facility and met with Finish Line management and staff, and discussed policy issues of importance to the bike industry, including infrastructure investment. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above in the first photo, right, with Alex Barouh, National Accounts Manager, left, and Hank Krause, CEO and founder, center. In the second photo, the Congressman is pictured, right, with Mr. Krause, left.
08.10.2017	Patchogue, NY – On Thursday, August 10, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with members of brainNY in his Patchogue office. The organization is a nonprofit group that advocates on behalf of scientists and researchers, and pharmaceutical and biotechnology groups involved in the neuroscience field. During the meeting, Congressman Zeldin spoke with braiNY Long Island members about recent advancements in neuroscience and the importance of maintaining neuroscience research funding.
08.09.2017	Hauppauge, NY – On Wednesday, August 9, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) made his second stop of this month’s NY-1 Economic Growth Tour at Positive Promotions in Hauppauge, New York. Throughout August, Congressman Zeldin is touring NY-1’s businesses, large and small, to meet with employers and employees and discuss their top priorities to grow their businesses here on Long Island and create more good paying, private sector jobs. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, with Nelson Taxel, owner of Positive Promotions. Positive Promotions is a Long Island-based manufacturer of custom promotional products, which employs over 500 people, including many NY-1 residents. During the visit, Congressman Zeldin toured the company’s operations and met with the employees who keep the company running on a day-to-day basis. The Congressman also met with management personnel, where discussions included the negative, unintended economic impacts of certain government tax and regulatory policies.
08.09.2017	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) yesterday made the first stop of this month’s “NY-1 Economic Growth Tour”. Throughout August, Congressman Zeldin will be touring NY-1’s businesses, large and small, to meet with employers and employees and discuss their top priorities to grow their businesses here on Long Island and create more good paying, private sector jobs. Congressman Zeldin is pictured below, center, during the tour: Rep. Zeldin is pictured below speaking with employees: Rep. Zeldin kicked off the tour with a visit to Cobham. Cobham is a defense and aerospace manufacturing firm with a facility in Hauppauge, New York, that employees 136 workers, many of whom are NY-1 constituents. One of many great products it manufactures, this facility designs and builds actuators, advanced technology used for the Mars rover Curiosity. During the visit, Congressman Zeldin learned more about the hard work done at this location, and discussed the importance of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM), which is vital to the education of our youth and the future of our country in a 21st century workforce. This education prepares students to pursue good paying jobs, which contribute to the growth of our economy, while increasing innovation, a necessary requirement for the United States to remain competitive in the global marketplace. In the last Congress, Rep. Zeldin helped pass the STEM Education Act of 2015 (H.R. 1020), which provides federal funding to increase STEM programs in our schools. In the 115th Congress, Rep. Zeldin announced $998,750 in funding had been granted to Stony Brook University from the National Science Foundation (NSF) to provide scholarship support for students entering the STEM fields. In addition, he announced that NY-1 will be participating in the 2017 Congressional App Challenge, which was created to encourage students to participate in and learn more about STEM. Congressman Zeldin said, “Yesterday’s visit to Cobham was a great opportunity to meet with local job creators and hard working Long Islanders to discuss how we can work together to grow our local economy. We discussed STEM, which is absolutely vital in this regard, and I will continue my work in Congress to ensure these programs remain supported to better educate our students for generations to come. All throughout August, I have the privilege of touring our great district to meet with many of our area’s employers and their workforce to discuss ways we can improve the business climate and allow local commerce to flourish. These individuals are the greatest drivers of our economy and understand what needs to get done to give them every opportunity to succeed and thrive in a 21st century economy.”
08.08.2017	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement today regarding the unanimous passage of United Nations Security Council Resolution 2371 on Saturday which places new sanctions on North Korea in response to its violations of U.N. resolutions and continued testing of Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles (ICBM). The sanctions will target many of North Korea’s revenue streams and primary exports, such as coal, iron, and seafood, and is expected to reduce the nation’s roughly $3 billion total export revenue by more than a third. “This new sanctions package is a massive development on multiple fronts, especially with the size of the sanctions and the unanimous vote that included China and Russia. Ambassador Nikki Haley has accomplished what many thought was impossible and will result in much needed increased multilateral diplomacy as well as important economic pressure on the North Koreans. The red line isn’t North Korea launching a nuclear weapon at the United States. The red line must be that Kim Jong-Un can never even have the capability to deliver a nuclear warhead to the United States. When that capability is imminent, the United States will have no choice but to use that last possible option of conventional and/or unconventional military force. In the meantime, the best possible scenario is to address the need for North Korean denuclearization through the other principles of DIME (Diplomacy, Information, Military, Economics). There are several other dynamics and elements of options to this complex issue, but it cannot be understated how significant the potential is for these new sanctions to apply enormous pressure on Kim Jong-Un to change his behavior. It is in his best interest and his nation’s best interest to do so.”
08.07.2017	Mastic, NY – On Monday, August 7, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted Mobile Office Hours at the Mastic Fire House in Mastic. At the Mobile Office Hours, Congressman Zeldin was able to meet with many NY-1 constituents to discuss a wide range of issues, such as the National Flood Insurance Program, veterans’ affairs, and health care. In the first photo, Congressman Zeldin is pictured, left, with Bill Biondi, right, during their discussion about issues impacting our local fire departments. In the second photo, Congressman Zeldin is pictured, center, with George Egan, left, and Mr. Biondi, right. In the third photo, Congressman Zeldin is pictured, left, with Dominick Pesce, right, who came to Mobile Office Hours to talk about a local public safety concern in his neighborhood. In the fourth photo, Congressman Zeldin is pictured, left, with Joe Frino, right, following their discussion about Brookhaven National Laboratory.
08.04.2017	Stony Brook, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced today that Stony Brook University has received a $169,758 grant from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to support marine science and fisheries research. This funding will be used to improve marine management of protected species of fish and marine mammals within the Northeast United States Large Marine Ecosystem (NEUS LME). Congressman Zeldin said, “Stony Brook University is a world leader in groundbreaking scientific research, and I am pleased to announce that this funding has been awarded to support their amazing work. This $169,758 grant will be used to improve decision making pertaining to the management of fish and aquatic wildlife. Fishing is incredibly important to our life, culture, and economy here on Long Island, and as part of this community we must do all we can to support this historic tradition. As the Representative of the First Congressional District, which is almost entirely surrounded by water, I am proud to advocate for grant funding such as this to support our local science community and advance these important causes. We must do more to safeguard the natural resources underneath us and around us on Long Island.” "These funds will use state-of-the-art climate models to develop several tools to assist fishers in reducing bycatch of marine mammals and fish in longline and midwater trawl fisheries, which will increase the efficiency and profitability of our valuable marine resources," said Dr. Lesley Thorne, Assistant Professor at Stony Brook University. Established in 1970, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) studies climate, weather, oceans, and coasts to support economic vitality and provides planners and emergency managers with resources and information. This past May, Congressman Zeldin voted to fund NOAA research at $3.37 billion, an increase of $62 million from the previous year (H.R. 244, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2017).
08.04.2017	Patchogue, NY – On Thursday, August 3, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) held several meetings with NY-1 constituents in his Patchogue office. Topics of discussion during the meetings ranged from scientific research, animal abuse, healthcare, education, and much more. Five of these great meetings are pictured above; in the top photo, Congressman Zeldin is pictured with members of the New York State School Boards Association (NYSSBA); in the bottom left photo, Congressman Zeldin is pictured with Joann Winkhart of Nesconset, representing the Humane Society, following their discussion about animal welfare; in the bottom center photo, Congressman Zeldin is pictured with Dr. Ken Dill of Stony Brook University, after discussing funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and National Science Foundation (NSF); in the bottom right photo, Congressman Zeldin is pictured with Kristopher Galante of Mastic Beach, who conducts research in bionics; and in the separate bottom photo, Congressman Zeldin is pictured with several NY-1 constituent members of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, an organization dedicated to improving the lives of individuals with MS. Several other meetings took place during the day as well.
08.03.2017	Stony Brook, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced today that the Long Island Museum of American Art, History, and Carriages has been awarded $40,000 through the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) competitive grant program. Funding from this grant will be used to support the museum’s “A World Before Cars” Gallery. Congressman Zeldin said, “Since 1939, the Long Island Museum has stood as one of our greatest sources of local art, history, and culture, and this grant will help the museum continue its excellent work. I would like to thank the National Endowment for the Humanities for recognizing this important initiative. It is paramount that we continue to support and fund our local historical sites, museums, and arts programs, and I am honored to do my part in Congress.” Long Island Museum Executive Director Neil Watson said, “We are thrilled and honored that the NEH is supporting our proposal to plan a new fully-immersive gallery that will help visitors understand how carriages and horses connect to our modern automotive culture. Working with world-class designers and consultants, the museum will create an exciting and engaging interactive new 2,400-square-foot gallery.” Established in 1965, the National Endowment for the Humanities is an independent federal agency that provides grant funding for museums, archives, libraries, other organizations to promote excellence in the humanities across the United States. This May, Congressman Zeldin voted to fund the NEH at $149.8 million, an increase of $1.9 million from the previous year (H.R. 244, Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2017).
07.31.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement following House passage last Thursday of the Make America Secure Appropriations Act (H.R. 3219), which is the fiscal year 2018 appropriations bill for Defense, Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction/Veterans Affairs. “The Make America Secure Appropriations Act prioritizes national security and secures our border. This legislation provides a total of $658.1 billion for the Department of Defense, including critical resources to defeat ISIS and other terrorist groups. Additionally, this bill provides a 2.4% pay raise for our troops, which is the largest pay raise for our military in 8 years, and provides the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) with an increase of 5.3% as well as greater oversight and accountability at the VA. In addition to important defense funding, this legislation will also help strengthen our waterways and infrastructure, providing important funding for the Army Corps of Engineers and for flood and storm damage reduction. The Make America Secure Appropriations Act also provides $9.6 billion for Energy Programs within the Department of Energy, which includes the National Laboratory System; including Brookhaven National Lab. With House passage, the Senate must now take up this bill without delay. I look forward to continuing to work across the aisle with the President and my colleagues in Congress on this and so many other important priorities to better our community, state and nation.”
07.31.2017	A historic gem that is so important to our life, culture, and economy, Plum Island stands as a resource for our community unlike any other. I have had the pleasure of visiting Plum Island in the past, and its natural beauty is truly unique. Approximately 90% of Plum Island has been sheltered from development, allowing it to preserve a diverse wildlife and ecosystem and a critical habitat for migratory birds, marine mammals, and rare plants. The beauty of this island is breathtaking, and one would think they were visiting a destination thousands of miles away from Long Island. Originally belonging to the Corchaug and Montaukett Indian tribes, Plum Island possesses a rich history that dates back to the 1700’s. The island is the site of the first battle between British and Continental troops ordered by General George Washington. It also once held Fort Terry, a coastal defense fortification and artillery post that was used up until World War II. Following WWII, the site was used as an animal research facility, where research on infectious diseases was conducted. This facility has grown to become what is now known as the Plum Island Animal Disease Center, and has conducted groundbreaking research on issues that affect all Americans, such as threats to our food supply. However, in 2005, it was announced that the Animal Disease Center research would be moved to a new federal facility, the Bio-and-Agro Defense Facility (NBAF) in Kansas. In addition, laws were passed in 2008 and 2011 mandating the sale of Plum Island by the federal government to the highest bidder. This is the wrong path forward, and I am committed to halting this misguided action and ensuring a better future for this treasured island. A feature so unique and exotic deserves to be cherished and preserved, not sold off to the highest bidder to be privately developed. That is why I am honored to have reintroduced my legislation to stop the sale of Plum Island as H.R. 2182, the Plum Island Preservation Act. This bill will suspend the laws that mandated this public sale. In consultation with the Department of Homeland Security, which currently “owns” the island, this legislation will commission the Government Accountability Office to formulate a comprehensive plan for the future of the island. This plan must include alternative uses for the island, including a transfer of ownership to another federal agency, the state or local government, a nonprofit, or a combination thereof, and possess a focus on conservation, education, and research. Public access would be great while continuing a valuable research mission. This legislation passed the House unanimously in the 114th Congress, as did my amendment to the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act of 2017, H.R. 5485, which would have prohibited any of the funding within the appropriations bill to be used to market or sell Plum Island. I am proud to announce that, in the 115th Congress, my bill has again passed the House with unanimous bipartisan support. I would like to thank all of my colleagues in Congress who have worked alongside myself to advance this important cause, as well as all of the groups and individuals who have lent their support to Plum Island’s preservation. It is now upon the Senate to bring this bill to a vote and have it sent to the President’s desk. For the people of Long Island, this cause is far too important to allow it to slip away. As members of one community, we value Plum Island as a precious resource that should not be sold off. This has been one of my top local priorities in Congress for an important reason, and I will continue to do everything in my power to keep Plum Island the amazing place it has been for centuries. Congressman Lee Zeldin, a member of the Long Island Sound Caucus in the House of Representatives, represents the First Congressional District of New York.
07.28.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement today after President Donald Trump visited Long Island to discuss the effort to eradicate the MS-13 gang in Suffolk County and nationwide. Congressman Zeldin traveled with the President on Air Force One from Washington, DC, to Suffolk County, New York. “It was an honor to travel with President Trump to our home in Suffolk County to discuss efforts to eradicate MS-13. It has been very welcome relief witnessing the President and his administration take such an active role to address this urgent threat. What has happened on our island shows how local communities can be so deeply impacted by gangs such as MS-13. MS-13 and other Central American gangs have wreaked havoc in our neighborhoods from coast to coast, and the problem will only continue to worsen unless strong action is taken against them. The rise in gang violence is one of the greatest challenges we face as a nation, and we must do everything in our power to swiftly bring this to an end. Here, in Suffolk County, this mission is all the more personal. Only a few months ago, four young lives were sadly and brutally cut short by MS-13, two of whom, Justin Llivicura, of East Patchogue, and Jorge Tigre, of Bellport, were residents of the First Congressional District. This tragic occurrence is in addition to many of the other horrible crimes committed by this group, which has included human trafficking, gang rape, drug trafficking, and other deeply disturbing incidents. The horror of their brutality knows no bounds. This ruthless gang is a scourge upon our community which has taken far too many innocent lives. Every one of us, at all levels of government, has a role to play in combating this threat, and I am proud to do my part as a Member of Congress. As the President noted during his speech today, a key aspect of this is for Congress to advance proposals which strengthen our immigration system and especially our borders. We must also continue to strongly support our local law enforcement and give them every necessary tool to effectively combat gang violence. It is also imperative that we participate in international efforts to combat various related criminal activity and engage in local efforts to educate and rehabilitate as necessary and appropriate. While some chose to line the streets and protest the President’s arrival with claims that his motives for coming were to ‘attack immigrants’, his words today proved that this was simply not true. This administration has taken a hard stance against gang activity, and it is imperative that we come together as one community in rejection of this violence which has claimed too many innocent lives. This President’s trip to our home was a sign that we have allies in this fight against evil; however, this is only the beginning. We must send a clear indication that gangs like MS-13 have no place here, and that we will never tolerate gang violence in our communities. It is our obligation to make eradicating this criminal organization a top priority.”
07.27.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement today after the White House’s announcement that President Donald Trump will be traveling to Long Island to discuss the effort to eradicate the MS-13 gang nationwide. Tomorrow, Congressman Zeldin will be traveling with the President from Washington, DC, to Suffolk County, New York. “The rise in gang violence, which is ruining lives, wreaking havoc, and causing irreparable and devastating harm to families, is hitting home in the most personal and tragic way in Suffolk County, where we’ve seen ongoing violence perpetrated by MS-13 and other Central American gangs taking innocent lives and threatening the safety of our schools. I thank President Trump for making it a priority to travel to Long Island tomorrow to address the administration's determined efforts to eradicate this violent street gang. This past April, the murder of four young men by MS-13 took place on Long Island. Two of the victims, Justin Llivicura, of East Patchogue, New York, and Jorge Tigre, of Bellport, New York, were residents of the First Congressional District. Justin, Jorge and two others were senselessly and tragically murdered by MS-13, using machetes. This is unfortunately just one of the many recent incidents in our community. The crimes of MS-13 have also included gang rape, human trafficking, drug trafficking, and so many other terrible crimes. The rise in gang violence on Long Island and throughout our country must come to an end. This effort must be an all hands on deck mission from all levels of government: from the enforcement of our immigration laws, international efforts to combat various related criminal activity, to local efforts to educate and rehabilitate as necessary and appropriate. It's also imperative that all levels of government work together with local law enforcement, schools, churches, and other community groups, to help tackle this massive challenge. Children are being targeted for recruitment into gangs early in grade school. It is greatly unfortunate that some people plan to line the streets in opposition to the President’s visit, shamefully alleging that the President’s motive is to ‘attack immigrants’ and ‘hard working American families’. Nothing could be further from the truth. President Trump and his administration are taking a no nonsense approach at eradicating violent gangs that are murdering innocent Long Islanders and tearing apart families and communities. We should all be working together to eliminate the threats posed by MS-13 and other gang activity. That is of mutual interest for all of us. Failure is not an option. We must always take action to make our neighborhoods safer and improve our quality of life.”
07.27.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced that the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Education Assistance Act (H.R. 3218) passed the House of Representatives on Monday in a unanimous bipartisan vote. H.R. 3218 would improve and extend benefits given to veterans, their surviving spouses, and dependents through the Servicemen’s Readjustment Act of 1944, or the GI Bill. The GI Bill has helped millions of veterans and their families pursue college, vocational opportunities, and other forms of higher education. H.R. 3218 removes time restrictions and allows future eligible recipients to use the benefits for their entire lives. Currently, there is a 15-year timeline for these benefits. This bill will also provide 100% GI Bill eligibility to Post 9/11 Purple Heart recipients, restore eligibility for veterans whose school closes in the middle of the semester, and create a pilot program to allow servicemembers to take specific high technology courses. In addition, H.R. 3218 would reduce the Department of Veterans’ Affairs’ (VA) administrative costs by consolidating the GI Bill into one program over time. Congressman Zeldin said, “Supporting our veterans and their families, who have sacrificed so much to protect us, must always remain one of our top priorities as a nation. The Harry W. Colmery Veterans Education Assistance Act will allow our veterans, as well as their surviving spouses and dependents, to better access the GI Bill benefits which they have earned. After leaving the service, many of our veterans choose to pursue education. It is imperative that these heroes have every opportunity to pursue those career opportunities following military service, and this legislation makes the necessary reforms to better allow this to happen. Additionally, these valuable benefits are often transferred to the family members of our veterans. We must always remember that the cost of liberty is not only paid out by our veterans, but their families as well. In a 21st century economy, higher education is becoming more and more of a necessity. The GI Bill has been helping veterans for over 70 years; H.R. 3218 will improve upon this excellent cause and allow our servicemembers and their families to better prepare for the future.”
07.27.2017	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, July 26, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with Daniel Panaro, a NY-1 resident and delegate from the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation’s (JDRF) 2017 Children’s Congress, in his Washington DC office. Accompanying Daniel was his mom, Gail. Since 1999, JDRF Children’s Congress has sent delegates to Capitol Hill to meet with Members of Congress and advocate for lifesaving diabetes research. During the meeting, Congressman Zeldin and Daniel spoke about the need to continue to fund this research as we work towards a cure. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with Daniel, right.
07.25.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced that the House of Representatives today passed his bipartisan bill, the Plum Island Preservation Act (H.R. 2182), which would prevent the sale of Plum Island by the federal government to the highest bidder. H.R. 2182, which you can view here, has received unanimous support from the Long Island and Connecticut House delegations, as well as a coalition of over 65 local and national environmental groups. In order to become law, the bill must also be passed in the United States Senate. Prior to the House vote, Congressman Zeldin spoke on the House floor in support of his bill, which you can view here. Congressman Zeldin’s bill will commission the Government Accountability Office, in consultation with the Department of Homeland Security, which currently “owns” the island, to formulate a comprehensive plan for the future of the island. This legislation requires the plan focus on conservation, education, and research and include alternative uses for the island including a transfer of ownership to another federal agency, the state or local government, a nonprofit, or a combination thereof. Allowing for continued research, public access and permanent preservation of the island, Congressman Zeldin’s bill, H.R. 2182, will suspend laws passed in 2008 and 2011 that mandated the public sale of Plum Island by the federal government to the highest bidder. Congressman Zeldin said, “Today, the House of Representatives passed my bipartisan bill to allow for continued research, public access and permanent preservation of Plum Island. Since taking office in 2015, one of my highest local priorities has been to protect Plum Island. The current law, which mandates the sale of the island to the highest bidder, is the wrong path forward. Preserving this island’s natural beauty, while maintaining a research mission, will continue to provide important economic and environmental benefits to Long Island. It will also ensure that the state of the art research facility at Plum Island does not go to waste. This bill will now be sent to the U.S. Senate. I, along with the bipartisan supporters of this bill in the House from New York and Connecticut, in addition to the 65+ environmental and community organizations in the Preserve Plum Island Coalition, will continue to urge Connecticut and New York's U.S. Senators to get this important bipartisan legislation over the top in their Chamber. We need to get this bill to the President’s desk as soon as possible.” In the 114th Congress, Congressman Zeldin’s bipartisan bill to protect Plum Island (H.R. 1887) passed the House of Representatives on May 16, 2016. Congressman Zeldin’s amendment to the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act of 2017 (H.R. 5485), which would prohibit any of the funding within the appropriations bill to be used to market or sell Plum Island, also passed the House of Representatives on July 7, 2016.
07.25.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced the First Congressional District of New York’s participation in the 2017 Congressional App Challenge. Hosted by Members of Congress for their district, the Congressional App Challenge is an app competition for any student who has not yet graduated high school. The competition runs from July 26, 2017, through November 1, 2017. The 2017 Congressional App Challenge was created to encourage students to participate in and learn more about the fields of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM), coding, and computer science education. Students, who can participate in the competition either individually or as a group of up to four students, will create and submit any type of software application, or app, on any platform of their choice, including mobile phone, tablet, or other related computing devices. More information on the 2017 Congressional App Challenge, including specifics on eligibility, team and age requirements, app specifications, and judging criteria, can be found here. Students interested in participating may register here. Congressman Zeldin said, “I am excited to host the 2017 Congressional App Challenge for New York’s First Congressional District. STEM, coding, and computer sciences are vitally important fields of study for students in the 21st century, educating and preparing our youth to pursue good paying jobs which contribute to the growth of our economy. I encourage all students who are interested in this competition to participate. If any applicants have questions at any time, they are encouraged to contact my office at (631) 289-1097.”
07.24.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), co-chair of the Long Island Sound Caucus and a founding member of the bipartisan Congressional Estuary Caucus, announced today that important federal funding was added for both the Long Island Sound Program and National Estuary Program in the Department of Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill for FY 2018 at $8 million and $26.7 million, respectively. The deadline to fund the government for FY 2018 is September 30, 2017. This year, Congressman Zeldin worked to secure an increase of funding for the Long Island Sound Program. In the bipartisan Consolidated Appropriations Act (H.R. 244) to fund the federal government for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2017, the Long Island Sound Program was funded at $8 million, an increase of $4 million in funding from the previous year, and the National Estuary Program was funded at $26.7 million. Since the beginning of this year, Congressman Zeldin has been calling for full support of the Long Island Sound Program and National Estuary Program to ensure both are fully funded in the appropriations process; and not eliminated. In March 2017, Congressman Zeldin hosted a press conference in Mattituck, where he was joined by local elected officials and environmental advocates, calling for full support of the Long Island Sound Program and National Estuary Program. Read more here. Congressman Zeldin, along with U.S. Senators Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Chris Murphy (D-CT) and U.S. Representative Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), sent a letter to EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt urging him to oppose cuts to the Long Island Sound program, which you can read here. The Congressman also signed a bipartisan appropriations request for full funding for each of the 28 National Estuaries in the United States. Read more here. Congressman Zeldin said, “The Long Island Sound is a precious feature of our life, culture and economy, which affects the livelihood of thousands of Long Islanders, as well as our local recreation and tourism industries. Protecting this critical waterway, which has suffered over the years from pollution, overdevelopment and other negative impacts, has always been one of my highest priorities in Congress. The Long Island Sound Program, which is dedicated to water quality and wetlands restoration, as well as other local conservation projects to restore local beaches and protect wildlife, is such an important program. The program’s funding is prioritized to address urgent and challenging issues that threaten the ecological and economic well-being of coastal areas including nitrogen, harmful algae blooms, and flooding or wetland loss. Additionally, the National Estuary Program is another important Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) wetlands protection program that was established by the Clean Water Act. This National Estuary Program provides important local grants for 28 estuaries in the United States that the EPA has recognized to be of ‘national significance’ due to their threatened status from pollution and overdevelopment. On Long Island’s East End, there are two estuaries: the Long Island Sound and Peconic Bay. The National Estuary Program is the primary funding source for the Peconic Estuary Program. Both the Long Island Sound Program and National Estuary Program must be protected; securing the funding needed to maintain these programs is a major win for our local waterways, and I look forward to this bill’s passage in the House. There is much we can do to improve water quality in the Long Island Sound and Peconic Estuary, and I will continue working in Congress on a bipartisan basis to ensure our waterways are preserved for generations to come.” Earlier this year, in May 2017, the President submitted his budget request to Congress. The President’s request is just that: a request. It has no force of law or legislation. All funding for government agencies is initiated by Congress through the appropriations process. Since taking office in 2015, Congressman Zeldin has always worked across the aisle to ensure that necessary funds are provided where they are needed most in the First Congressional District.
07.24.2017	Selden, NY – On Friday, July 21, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended an Eagle Scout Court of Honor for William Wanamaker of Boy Scout Troop 229 of Selden. During the ceremony, William received the rank of Eagle Scout, the highest achievement in Scouting. In the first photo, Congressman Zeldin is pictured, right, with William, center right, and the Wanamaker family. In the second photo, Congressman Zeldin is pictured, left, with William, center, and Eagle Scout Adam Barcia, right.
07.21.2017	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced today that the Department of Transportation (DOT) will make an additional approximately $1.5 billion available to help rebuild America’s crumbling infrastructure through grant funding. Improving upon the existing FASTLANE program, INFRA allows local governments to apply directly for federal assistance to advance highway improvement measures and other infrastructure projects. INFRA improves upon FASTLANE by using updated criteria for awarding funding, such as the national and regional economic impact and the potential for job creation and innovation through emerging technology, to better evaluate potential projects. The DOT will also be conducting outreach to assist potential applicants with the process of filing an application, further strengthening the commitment to reducing bureaucracy and providing direct assistance to local governments. In the 114th Congress, Congressman Zeldin was part of a bipartisan coalition that developed and passed the Fix America’s Transportation, or FAST Act (H.R. 22), the first long term fully funded highway and transit bill to become law in nearly a decade. As part of an overall commitment to increase direct federal aid for infrastructure projects at the local level, this bill created the initial grant program now being improved upon further by INFRA. Congressman Zeldin said, “Advocating for important funding that impacts the First Congressional District is one of my top priorities in Congress, and I strongly encourage all of our local highway departments to apply for this grant funding. INFRA presents a new opportunity for our communities to receive the funding necessary to make long needed improvements to our roads, bridges, overpasses, and other forms of infrastructure. Reliable and well-maintained infrastructure is necessary for both the success of Long Island’s economy and the safety of our citizens, and it is imperative that absolutely every avenue is explored in fulfilling this critical mission.” Local governments are encouraged to apply. For more information or assistance, officials can contact Congressman Zeldin's office.
07.21.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced today that the House of Representatives is expected to vote next week on his bipartisan bill to prevent the sale of Plum Island by the federal government to the highest bidder: The Plum Island Preservation Act (H.R. 2182). This legislation, which is on the floor along with other legislation relating to the Department of Homeland Security, is scheduled for a vote as early as Monday, July 24, 2017. H.R. 2182 has unanimous support from the Long Island and Connecticut House delegations, as well as a coalition of over 65 local and national environmental groups. Congressman Zeldin’s bill, which you can view here, will commission the Government Accountability Office, in consultation with the Department of Homeland Security, which currently owns the island, to formulate a comprehensive plan for the future of the island. This legislation requires the plan focus on conservation, education, and research and include alternative uses for the island including a transfer of ownership to another federal agency, the state or local government, a nonprofit, or a combination thereof. Allowing for continued research, public access and permanent preservation of the island, Congressman Zeldin’s bill, H.R. 2182, will suspend laws passed in 2008 and 2011 that mandated the public sale of Plum Island by the federal government to the highest bidder. Congressman Zeldin said, “Since taking office in 2015, I have made the protection of Plum Island a top local priority. Plum Island is a critical cultural, historical, and natural resource, and one of the First Congressional District’s greatest local treasures. With 90% of the land on Plum Island sheltered from currently developed property, Plum Island offers Long Island a diverse wildlife and ecosystem and a critical habitat for migratory birds, marine mammals, and rare plants. Plum Island is also an essential cultural and historical resource as well, with recorded history dating back to the 1700s. Under current law, the sale of the island is mandated. This is the wrong path forward. We must ensure there is a better path forward that allows for public access, the permanent preservation of the island, and/or the continued use of the research infrastructure with a state of the art research facility currently in existence on the Island. I am proud to announce that the Plum Island Preservation Act has been scheduled for a vote on the House floor and I look forward to its passage so we can continue to provide important economic and environmental benefits to Long Island.” In the 114th Congress, Congressman Zeldin’s bipartisan bill to protect Plum Island (H.R. 1887) passed the House of Representatives on May 16, 2016. Congressman Zeldin’s amendment to the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act of 2017 (H.R. 5485), which would prohibit any of the funding within the appropriations bill to be used to market or sell Plum Island, also passed the House of Representatives on July 7, 2016. In order to become law, these bills must also be passed in the United States Senate.
07.20.2017	Washington, DC - On Wednesday, July 19, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) delivered a speech on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, recognizing the 106th Rescue Wing, New York Air National Guard. Based out of Gabreski Airport in Westhampton Beach, NY, the 106th Rescue Wing has a long and distinguished history of service, and took part in a rescue mission in April 2017 after an explosion occurred on a Slovenian cargo ship. The 106th Rescue Wing was called into immediate action and provided advanced medical care for the next two days, saving the lives of two crew members who suffered severe burns. You can view Congressman Zeldin’s floor speech here. Congressman Zeldin said: “Commanded by Colonel Michael Bank, the 106th Rescue Wing is based out of Gabreski Airport in Westhampton Beach, located in my home district, and has a long and distinguished history of service. In October 1991, during the storm that was depicted in the major motion picture, “The Perfect Storm”, an HH-60 and tanker from the 106th Rescue Wing flew to an endangered sailboat about 250 miles south of its base. After survival gear was dropped onto the vessel, they began their return to base. However, braving incredibly severe weather conditions, the HH-60 was forced to ditch 60 miles south of base in the Atlantic Ocean. All but one member of the crew was rescued by the United States Coast Guard cutter Tamaroa. In addition, in 1998, the 106th Rescue Wing carried out the longest over-water rescue mission in an HH-60. Members of the wing were also on scene at Ground Zero during the 9/11 Terror Attacks. Most recently, this past April, the heroic members of this squadron saved several lives when an explosion occurred on a Slovenian cargo ship. These brave Airmen took immediate action when called upon to offer desperately needed medical assistance. On April 24, the cargo ship Tamar was rocked by an explosion in the forward bulkhead, which resulted in the immediate death of one individual, and severe burns for three other crew members, one of whom sadly perished prior to the team's arrival. 1300 miles off the coast of Cape Cod at the time of the explosion and holding a crew of over 20 men, the situation looked dire for the injured members of this crew. Boston Rescue Coordination Center was initially contacted for help, who reached out to two Canadian vessels in the area. However, these ships were 12 to 24 hours away at the very least, and did not possess the necessary medical capability. It was then that the 106th Rescue Wing was called into immediate action to save those lives aboard the vessel. Less than two hours after the request was made by the Coast Guard, this seven member crew, led by Major Sean Boughal, boarded a C-130 Hercules aircraft from the 102nd Rescue Squadron, also part of the 106th Rescue Wing, to begin the search and rescue. Following a five hour flight and superb airmanship of the C-130 crew, the seven man PJ Team executed a complex night parachute insertion of equipment and personnel into the water and then made their way to the stricken vessel. After making it onboard, the 103rd Rescue Squadron PJ Team provided advanced medical care for the next two days, until a Portuguese rescue helicopter could hoist off the team and airlift the injured seamen to a higher level of medical care. If not for the brave actions of this Rescue Wing, there could have very well been an even greater loss of life upon that vessel. Mr. Speaker, these Pararescuemen risked life and limb to save these crew members, and have more than earned our respect and admiration. Today, I would like to honor Major Edward Boughal, Technical Sgt Jordan St Clair, Major Marty Viera, Senior Master Sgt Erik Blom, Master Sgt Jed Smith, Staff Sgt Bryan Dalere, and Senior Airman Michael Hartman, for their lifesaving efforts on April 24. Not only today, but everyday, men and women like those in the 106th Rescue Wing put themselves on the line to protect us, our families, and our communities. It is so important that we continue to give our support to our nation’s defenders and provide every needed resource for these heroes. All Americans should be very proud of the 106th Rescue Wing and their continued legacy of remarkably answering the call to duty.”
07.19.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, today announced that bipartisan legislation he introduced in the House of Representatives, the Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2017 (H.R. 1196), passed the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. You can view a copy of the bill here: H.R.1196.pdf Prior to the committee vote, Congressman Zeldin spoke in support of his bill, which you can view here. The Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act would establish international border security standards to close security gaps that currently exist that allow terrorists and foreign fighters to travel internationally. The plan would establish international border security standards that would be developed in coordination with all the relevant U.S. Governmental departments and agencies in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, Attorney General, Director of National Intelligence, and Director of the FBI. Under the plan, U.S. resources would be utilized in the most efficient way possible with a special focus on high-risk and medium-risk countries to boost security. Under this legislation, a reporting system would also be established to monitor efforts of foreign governments to combat terrorism and foreign fighter travel and to suspend foreign assistance to countries not making significant efforts to comply. Furthermore, the bill would put in place a monitoring system that would screen for infectious diseases to contain and prevent any potential outbreaks, which will help quarantine viruses, by authorizing the Secretary of Homeland Security to provide the necessary equipment and supplies to mitigate the risk or threat of infectious diseases, such as Zika. Congressman Zeldin said, “In Congress, one of my highest priorities is to protect America’s security at home and abroad, which is why I introduced legislation to address vulnerabilities that currently exist with international security abroad and establish international border security standards, and ensure the United States is always prepared to combat the spread of any infectious diseases. Foreign fighter movement is a very serious challenge that has resulted in the well-recognized need for improved border security around the world and better information sharing between governments. With the rise of terrorism at home and around the world, it is important now more than ever, that we remain ever vigilant to protect our homeland. My bipartisan legislation is a commonsense way to ensure that we can monitor and stop the movement of terrorists. I look forward to working with my colleagues on the House Foreign Affairs Committee to bring this important bipartisan bill to a vote in the full committee and then on the House floor.” In the 114th Congress, Congressman Zeldin’s bill, the Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2016 (H.R. 4314), passed the House of Representatives on March 21, 2016, by a vote of 371-2. In order for the bill to become law, it must also be passed in the United States Senate. The Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act (S. 942) was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senators Marco Rubio (R, FL) and Chris Coons (D, DE).
07.19.2017	Westhampton, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced today that a $180,000 federal grant has been awarded to Francis Gabreski Airport in Westhampton, New York, which is home of the 106th Rescue Wing of the Air National Guard. The federal grant, secured through the U.S. Department of Transportation, will be used to fund phase one of a much needed four-phase project to construct a 4,900 square foot contract air traffic control tower, which will replace the existing tower that does not meet current building codes and Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards. Phase one is a site selection study. Congressman Zeldin said, “The 106th Rescue Wing of the New York Air National Guard in Westhampton has a long and distinguished history of service to the community and our country. The tower that is currently at Gabreski, which has been around since the 1940s, will be replaced by a new tower with the necessary level of communications equipment and safety upgrades. We must ensure that the Gabreski facilities are always kept in top condition, as the 106th Rescue Wing plays a crucial role in protecting our national security and implementing emergency response requirements. This grant will provide Suffolk County with the funding necessary to start the process of replacing the air traffic control tower.” Since 2015, Congressman Zeldin, who has visited Gabreski Airport multiple times and viewed the deteriorated condition of the tower firsthand, has been part of the bipartisan coalition in Congress working to protect contract towers, especially those that play an important national security role, such as Gabreski tower, from proposed FAA cuts and closures. The Congressman has been working closely with House colleagues on the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee and Aviation Subcommittee, Suffolk County officials, as well as past and current base commanders to secure federal funding for the new tower. In December 2016, Congressman Zeldin joined colleagues in the House, sending a letter to then President-elect Trump to support contract towers, and highlighting the importance of this program in saving taxpayer money, protecting aviation safety, and in providing air traffic services to the military. Most recently, Congressman Zeldin was joined by 90 lawmakers in a successful request calling on the House Appropriations Committee to fully fund contract towers. Just this week, the transportation appropriation bill approved by the committee contained $162 million for the contract tower program, which is a $3 million increase from the prior year. Following the completion of stage one, there will be an environmental assessment that takes place in phase two, as well as the design stage in phase three. Phase four will be the construction of the new tower. Overall, the project is expected to cost approximately $5 million.
07.18.2017	On Long Island, so much of our economy and way of life are connected to the water around us. Fishing is a treasured part of our identities as Long Islanders. Yet today, the current flaws in the management of our fisheries aren't just raising costs for commercial fishermen and charter boat captains- it also hurts all the small businesses in the coastal economy, including restaurants, bait & tackle shops, hotels, and gas stations. Quite candidly, it is also making this pastime just nowhere near as much fun as it used to be either. As the Representative for New York’s First Congressional District, which is almost entirely surrounded by water, I am committed to supporting our fishermen and ensuring this tradition is preserved for generations to come. The current management of our fisheries has created a web of unnecessary restrictions on our local anglers. For example, just last week, regulators gave final approval to a confusing set of requirements that call for a one inch difference in the size limit for fluke, 18 inches for New Jersey anglers, but 19 inches for New York. There is also a proposed regulation that would create two separate sets of rules for blackfish, one for the North Shore, and one for the South Shore. Current rules in our state also limit anglers to only one striped bass and weakfish per day. A rule like this is very damaging to the fishing industry. Many people just aren’t going to spend all the money it costs to go out on a charter boat if they can only catch and keep one fish. Using flawed, outdated data to justify that bad rule makes even less sense. New York representatives on regional councils have to do much more to fight for our fishermen because we continue to get rolled at the table by other coastal states that take a much more proactive role within these councils, getting better quotas for their states while New York anglers do not get their fair share. Additionally, these decisions on fishing regulations are being made using old, obsolete data, which has not been updated in years. There is no reason that our fishermen should be held back by numbers and figures that may have had relevance in years prior, but simply do not apply in 2017. I have long worked hard to get various victories across the finish line for our fishermen. In 2011, for example, as a member of the New York State Senate, I led the successful effort to repeal the Saltwater Fishing License Fee. My efforts have continued in Congress. In February, I reintroduced my legislation from the 114th Congress, the Local Fishing Access Act (H.R. 1195). This bill will provide Long Island anglers with relief from confusing and burdensome regulations, by reforming the federal law that bans striped bass fishing in the Block Island transit zone, which are federal waters between Montauk, New York, and Block Island, Rhode Island. Striped bass fishing has been banned in these waters since 1990, and yet commercial and recreational fishing is allowed for dozens of other species. Passage of this legislation will allow Long Island’s fishermen to once again enjoy striped bass fishing off the coast of Montauk, both commercially and recreationally, and to make sure that a nice day on the water doesn’t suddenly turn into a federal crime when a vessel drifts from state to federal waters. In addition, H.R. 244, legislation which was recently passed by Congress and signed by the President, includes $72.5 million for the National Sea Grant College Program. This important program works with local oyster growers, fishermen, watermen, and other businesses in the coastal economy to grow and sustain their business models, connecting them to local resources to share best practices, and helping them navigate a complex patchwork of state and federal coastal zone management regulations through technical assistance. Alongside Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-02), I also led a bipartisan group of 95 members of the House in sending a letter which called on the House Appropriations Committee’s Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies to continue their support for Sea Grant. With imported seafood making up 90% of American seafood consumption, this program works to help strengthen the ranks of Long Island’s local fishermen and shellfish farmers. We must also support our shellfish industry, a historic and rapidly growing industry on Long Island. Blue Point oysters, which originated in the Great South Bay, are now a highly sought after, world famous commodity, and the oyster trade has long been a prominent feature of our district’s economy and heritage. That is why, as part of the Congressional Shellfish Caucus, I've joined my bipartisan colleagues in pushing the Food and Drug Administration to end the impasse over European Union and United States trade negotiations over the import and export of oysters. Long Island’s oyster farmers need access to markets and restaurants in Europe to grow their businesses. Improving water quality is also absolutely paramount in this effort as well. Overdevelopment of waterfront properties, pollution, stormwater runoff, nitrogen loading, harmful algae blooms, and lack of adequate flushing of waterways are all contributing factors to reduced water quality that have caused severely negative consequences for the shellfish population over the past few decades. That is why so many environmental efforts like fully funding the National Estuary Program, which I have long supported, are so vital. While all of this will help to advance the interests of our fishermen, there is still so much more than can be done in Congress to aid this effort, such as thoroughly reforming the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act. This is the main law that governs recreational and commercial fishing in our nation; however, while it was first enacted in 1976, it has not been updated in a decade. Our home, and our fishermen, are unique and they should be treated as such. Reforming the Magnuson-Stevens Act also presents the opportunity to fix New York’s issue regarding Fishery Management Councils (FMCs) and allow our anglers to receive the fair share they have long deserved. Also as part of Magnuson reform, there needs to be improvement in the data and science used to create federal fishery management plans, as well as an improved framework that makes quotas and regulations flexible to each region and species. Maintaining healthy fish stocks is incredibly important, and our fishermen understand this; however this horribly flawed data only results in needlessly limited size and catch limits which serve no one. Without addressing this need, America’s fishermen will continue to suffer under a one-size-fits-all approach that hurts our industry and allows other nations to overtake our markets with their cheap, imported seafood. Last year, the commercial bluefish fishery in New York almost shut down mid-season due to a misguided ruling by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) that New York went over its quota for 2015, a decision based off of old data and poor science. While NOAA took a second look at the data that was outdated and wrong and revised their plan, allowing commercial blue fishing to continue, this decision should have never been made in the first place. In addition to these initiatives, there are other efforts required outside of Congress to give Long Island’s fishing industry a much needed boost. As such, it is imperative that all necessary levels of government come together to cut through the red tape and help grow this industry, including implementing improved permit practices for our commercial fishermen. While a thriving and successful fishing industry is just within our grasp, restricted access to needed permits continues to limit this potential. Industry experts have long derided this cumbersome process which is in dire need of reform. The time is right to change the burdensome licensing and permit procedures that put a cap on this industry’s ability to succeed. There remains much more that can be done to reinvigorate fishing and shellfish farming. Saltwater fishing is a cherished part of our heritage, and as members of an island community, it is so important that we never let this important aspect of our culture and economy fade away. A single act of Congress cannot resolve all of these challenges, but progress must be pursued in any available direction. We were raised to enjoy the bounties of these waters, and now, we have the pleasure of raising our families here as well. Tens of thousands of residents on Long Island and in surrounding areas utilize this unique resource and need our help. Congressman Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York, and serves on the House Financial Services and Foreign Affairs Committees.
07.17.2017	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement today urging President Donald Trump to not recertify the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), or Iran Nuclear Deal. As part of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015 (Public Law 114–17), which was passed and signed into law by the President, in order for the deal to be continued, every 90 days, the current administration must recertify that Iran is fully implementing the agreement, and that the suspension of sanctions is both proportionate to the measures taken by Iran to end its illicit nuclear weapons program and vital to protect U.S. national security. The certification is due to Congress today. “Not only is the Iran nuclear agreement not vital to protecting U.S. national security, it actually harms U.S. national security, which has only been further proven by Iranian aggression in the Middle East region since this terribly flawed deal was entered into two years ago. This ‘deal’ negotiated away our leverage without any resolution on Iran’s other bad activities, such as overthrowing foreign governments, sponsoring terrorism, developing InterContinental Ballistic Missiles, blowing up mock U.S. warships, pledging to wipe Israel off the map, and chanting Death to America in their streets on their holidays, all while unjustly imprisoning American citizens. I pressed President Obama to walk away from this unsigned, bad deal giving the Iranians up to $150 billion in sanctions relief, and now, in 2017, I am urging President Trump to stand for our nation’s best interests and not recertify the agreement. Even if Iran doesn’t cheat on the agreement, the JCPOA serves as a pathway and blueprint for the Iranians to obtain a nuclear weapon in just over a decade. It truly is absurd that we would have ever agreed to this arrangement in the first place. A better deal or no deal would have been much alternatives. There is too much at stake to allow the JCPOA to continue.” On March 2, 2017, Congressman Zeldin sent a letter, which was signed by 45 other Members of Congress, to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson regarding the JCPOA, to ask several questions related to the implementation of the agreement. You can read the letter here and response here.
07.14.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement following House passage today of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2017 (H.R. 2810): “The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2017 provides critical resources to strengthen our Armed services and keep our nation safe. This legislation provides a 2.4% pay raise for troops, which represents the largest pay increase in 8 years. The NDAA also includes a much needed strengthening of cyber operations, with $8 billion in funding, an increase of $1.7 billion, to support the Department’s defensive and offensive cyberspace capabilities and strategies. Increases in funding for our troops overseas, and critical operation and maintenance projects will allow our military to remain best prepared for any challenge. House passage is the first step to getting this bill signed into law.”
07.13.2017	Washington, DC - On July 12, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke on the House floor in support of his legislation, House Concurrent Resolution 20, which the Congressman reintroduced in the 115th Congress. The resolution calls for justice following the 1999 executions of NY-1 residents, Ylli, Agron, and Mehmet Bytyqi, who resided in Hampton Bays, New York. You can watch Congressman Zeldin’s floor speech here. In July 1999, the three brothers, Ylli, 25 years old, Agron, 23 years old, and Mehmet Bytyqi, 21 years old, went overseas towards the end of the Kosovo war and were arrested when they accidently crossed into Serbian-controlled territory. The brothers were arrested by Serbian authorities for illegally entering the country, and were brutally executed shortly after. While Serbian authorities have investigated the deaths of the brothers, there have been no charges brought against those responsible for these murders. Since taking office in 2015, Congressman Zeldin has been advocating for the Government of Serbia, and all relevant parties, to hold accountable those responsible for the executions of the Bytyqi brothers. Congressman Zeldin said, “Today, we remember Ylli, Agron, and Mehmet Bytyqi, who were senselessly and brutally murdered 18 years ago. The Bytyqi brothers left the comfort and safety of their homes in the United States to help stop horrific crimes against humanity abroad. After their service in uniform was over, these three brothers chose to embark on a civilian humanitarian mission, where they were arrested after accidentally crossing into Serbian-controlled territory. Two weeks later, they were given a judicial order of release. Instead, the brutal execution of these men followed shortly after, and it was not until 2001, two years later, that their remains were found in a mass grave. While Serbian authorities have investigated the deaths of the brothers, there have been no charges brought against those responsible for these murders. Moreover, the main suspect remains a prominent member of the governing political party. Since taking office, I have been committed to helping the Bytyqi family receive the justice they have long deserved, and have been in contact with them as we work to resolve this situation. It is absolutely reprehensible that, despite many promises by Serbian officials to resolve the case, no individual has ever been found guilty of this horrible crime, nor of any other crimes associated with the deaths of these innocent Americans. It is the responsibility of the Serbian government to resolve this case, and my resolution notes that progress into this investigation should remain a significant factor which determines the further development of U.S.-Serbian relations. Their inaction on finding and prosecuting those responsible is an insult not only to the memory of the Bytyqi brothers and their family, but to every American. The Bytyqi brothers gave their lives to fight injustice; it is now upon us to return this favor and deliver justice for their family.”
07.11.2017	Miller Place, NY – On Monday, July 10, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited Gully Landing in Miller Place to announce the completion of a $1.4-million shoreline stabilization and reconstruction project. This project will strengthen local infrastructure, as well as improve water quality in the area, by restoring the drainage facility at Gully Landing that was severely damaged during Super Storm Sandy. Pictured above, from left to right, are Congressman Zeldin, Brookhaven Town Councilwoman Jane Bonner, Brookhaven Town Superintendent of Highways Daniel Losquadro, and Marc Mazza, Vice President of the Miller Place Park Homeowners Association.
07.10.2017	Mattituck, NY – On Saturday, July 8, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Mattituck Street Fair. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with Staff Sergeant (SSG) Rubenstein, right, a fellow former 82nd Airborne Division paratrooper. SSG Rubenstein currently serves as an active duty Army recruiter at the U.S. Army Recruiting Center in Riverhead.
07.10.2017	Bridgehampton, NY – On Saturday, July 8, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the South Fork Natural History Museum’s 28th Annual Summer Gala in Bridgehampton. Founded in 1988, the Museum is home to several nature exhibits designed to show the South Fork’s unique natural history, and is the only state-of-the-art natural history museum on the South Fork. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with Andrew Sabin, President of the Museum’s Board of Directors, right.
07.09.2017	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement today after the Iraqi military retook Mosul from ISIS: “Today is a very positive day for the Iraqi people. Recapturing Mosul is a key strategic victory not just for Iraq, but also for the security of the free world in the fight against ISIS. Mosul served as a critical node of control for ISIS and being driven out of that city is a massive setback for that terrorist group. There is still much more work ahead to bring peace to the Middle East and rid the world of radical Islamic terrorism, but for now, there is a military strategy in Iraq that is moving in the right direction with a path to long term peace and stability."
07.07.2017	Southampton, NY – On Thursday, July 6, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted Mobile Office Hours at Stony Brook University’s Southampton campus. Dozens of constituents were able to meet with the Congressman at Mobile Office Hours to talk about many important issues, including the environment, health care, veterans affairs, foreign policy, and more. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, following his meeting with NY-1 veterans Dominick Losquadro, center, and Joe Cognitore, right.
07.07.2017	Medford, NY – On Thursday, July 6, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited the DaVita Medford Dialysis Center in Medford. Serving Suffolk County, the Medford Dialysis Center is part of DaVita Kidney Care, a leading provider of kidney care services throughout the United States. During the tour, Congressman Zeldin met with patients and caregivers at the facility. In the first photo, Congressman Zeldin is pictured, center, with caregivers at the Center. In the second photo, Congressman Zeldin is pictured, left, with a patient, center, and a caregiver, right.
07.05.2017	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) led a bipartisan letter from the Long Island Congressional Delegation, including Representatives Peter King (R, NY-2), Thomas Suozzi (D, NY-3), and Kathleen Rice (D, NY-4), to Dr. David Shulkin, Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), to advocate for the removal or repurposing of several buildings located on the Northport VA campus which have been vacant for a prolonged amount of time. The letter also expressed their support for the VA’s announcement of a plan to dispose of or repurpose vacant buildings throughout the VA system. The VA’s announcement can be read here. With Northport VA Buildings 1, 2, 18 and 23 having been unused for an extended period of time, this is one of the most pressing issues at Northport VA, where the need for several maintenance and demolition projects has arisen that requires immediate attention in order to provide the best possible care for Long Island’s veterans. The delegation requested that during the VA’s process of identifying and addressing facilities in need of disposal or repurposing, the VA addresses the needs of Northport. A copy of the letter can be found here. Letter to Secretary Shulkin - June 2017.pdf The text of the letter is below: Dear Secretary Shulkin: We were pleased to review your announcement of a plan to dispose of or repurpose vacant buildings throughout the VA system. Like you, we are concerned over the prevalence of vacant and unused buildings at VA Medical Center facilities and believe that taxpayer funds are best utilized by administering healthcare rather than maintaining empty buildings. We share your desire to address this issue, and we appreciate your dedication to serving our nation’s veterans. As you are aware, the Northport VA Medical Center (Northport VAMC) is a nearly 90 year old medical facility which serves tens of thousands of veterans from across Long Island. While this facility, not unlike others, has faced challenges over the years, the dedicated men and women who work at Northport VAMC strive to provide top notch healthcare to all those who enter their facility. Recently, however, several maintenance and demolitions projects have arisen that require immediate attention in order to provide the best possible care for Long Island’s veterans. Among the issues to be addressed at Northport VAMC, perhaps one of the most pressing issue is the vacant or unused buildings on campus. Buildings 1, 2, 18 and 23 have been unused for an extended period of time, yet they remain on campus. While these buildings are already in a complete state of disrepair, VA acknowledges that these defunct facilities still cost the taxpayers an average of $7 million per year. Both patients and the dedicated staff members at the Northport VAMC would be much better served if these funds were spent on healthcare delivery or other services at Northport. As you are aware, this issue is not unique to Northport; over 350 buildings across the VA system are either vacant or mostly vacant, costing taxpayers millions upon millions of dollars, and diverting necessary resources away from our veterans. As you move through the process of identifying and addressing facilities in need of disposal or repurposing, we urge you to keep the needs of Northport in mind and ensure these projects are addressed in a timely manner. Both Suffolk and Nassau Counties are home to some of the highest veteran populations in the country, and anything less than the best possible care and service is a disservice to these brave men and women. Again, we thank you for your commitment to follow through on your promise to dispose of all vacant buildings within 24 months, and we look forward to working with you in service to our nation’s veterans. This will be a valuable first step in improving the quality of care throughout the VA system.
07.05.2017	Southold, NY – On Tuesday, July 4, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the Southold Fourth of July Parade. Pictured above, from left to right, are Southold Town Assessor Robert Scott, Southold Town Councilman William Ruland, Southold Town Councilman Jim Dinizio, Southold Town Councilman Robert Ghosio, Congressman Zeldin, and Southold Town Supervisor Scott Russell.
07.04.2017	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement in recognition of Independence Day: “241 years ago, our Founding Fathers stood strong in the face of tyranny, the greatest enemy of the common man, when they joined together to sign the Declaration of Independence. One of New York’s four signers became the first representative of New York’s First Congressional District, William Floyd. Not content to allow the burden of oppression to prevail, our Founding Fathers ignited a revolution the likes of which the world had never seen and has yet to be matched to this day. In doing so, they formulated a system of governance which provided its citizens with a revolutionary concept: freedom. On Independence Day, we celebrate the essential virtues of personal liberty, self-reliance, and equality of opportunity. We cherish our freedoms and believe that it is this sustained liberty and leadership in America which makes us so exceptional. Personal autonomy is the lifeblood of our people; a value that without, we lose our identity. Our Founding Fathers pioneered the concept of autonomous government of the people, by the people, and for the people. On this day so many years ago, the Declaration of Independence was signed by men who saw a better future for the great people of this nation, one where they could design their own destiny without intrusion from a central power. As these legendary visionaries wrote, “... all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.” The words written on that sacred document ring true to this very day. Preservation of this liberty is paramount, and generations of Americans have fought to uphold the ideals our nation was created upon. The sacrifices of our military veterans, many of whom paid the ultimate price in defense of our great country and the liberties we hold dear, must never be forgotten. We are forever grateful for the heroic actions of all who have served and continue to serve today to protect us and our families. Our nation’s path to greatness is forever paved with the deeds of these heroes, and to that, we owe a debt which can never fully be repaid. Between the barbeques and fireworks, on Independence Day, we come together to celebrate our great, most exceptional nation.”
06.29.2017	Washington, DC - On Thursday, June 29, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met in his Washington, DC office with Enru Wang of Smithtown Christian School, winner of the 2017 Congressional Art Competition for NY-1, before her tour of the Capitol. The Congressional Art Competition was started in 1982, and is an annual visual art competition for high school students in each Congressional District throughout the United States. The winners’ artwork from each District is displayed in a highly trafficked tunnel beneath the Capitol for one year. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, with Enru, center, and Enru’s mother, left.
06.29.2017	Washington, DC - On Wednesday, June 28, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met in his Washington, DC office with members of the Patient Quality of Life Coalition, one of whom was a NY-1 resident. The Patient Quality of Life Coalition is a group of more than 20 nongovernmental organizations dedicated to improving the quality of care for patients facing serious illnesses. Congressman Zeldin and the Coalition discussed the Palliative Care and Hospice Education and Training Act (H.R. 1676). Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with members of the Coalition.
06.28.2017	Washington, DC - On June 28, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) questioned The Honorable Nikki Haley, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, at a House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing titled “Advancing U.S. Interests at the United Nations”. The Congressman spoke with Ambassador Haley about U.N. Security Council Resolution 2334, which was passed in December 2016. They also discussed the Taylor Force Act (H.R. 1164) to suspend payments to/for the Palestinian Authority until the incitement of violence and financial rewarding of terrorism is stopped. You can view the exchange here, or by clicking the video below. Here are some highlights from the questioning: At 0:06, Congressman Zeldin asked, “U.N. Security Council Resolution 2334 was an anti-Israel, anti-Jewish resolution seeking to ethnically cleanse Judea/Samaria and East Jerusalem. Is it an accurate summary of your observations since taking over as Ambassador that some of the nations that voted for this resolution were resentful, some were apologetic, and it appears to have been U.S. led and U.S. pushed?” At 0:36, Ambassador Haley responded, “I talked to all of the security council members and told them how offended and what a kick in the gut it was for Americans. What I got was some felt very arm twisted by the U.S., others thought it was the right thing to do... The hard part about me talking with 2334 is they keep telling me, well, it's the U.S. that wanted it, it's the U.S. that wanted it. So it's hard for me at this point. I'm just saying there's a new administration, this is not where we want to go.” At 1:11, Congressman Zeldin said, “And your testimony is confirmation that the U.S. was engaging in dangerous, ugly back stabbing of our nation's ally in Israel, and we abstained, and when Ben Rhodes and others were on a conference call, and this is in the White House records quoting verbatim, when asked why we abstained, Ben Rhodes, the taxpayer funded White House fiction writer says, quote, ‘We abstained, as Samantha explained, for a number of reasons. First, the United Nations, we continue to believe, is a flawed venue for this issue, in that it has frequently been used to single out Israel.’ Not only was that effort U.S. led and U.S. pushed, but then publicly we were abstaining and we were abstaining for the reason that I just quoted from Ben Rhodes, and I really appreciate your testimony to help clear the record and the history on that.” At 2:31, Ambassador Haley responded, “...that was one of our lowest points in our country with what happened because the international community, when they saw that we went against an ally, it set off a terrible tone in terms of where we're going to go. And just to let you know how bad it was, when she abstained, the entire security council and the audience got up and applauded, and Israel was sitting there... watching that. Think about what we just did to a friend, what happened. We don't ever applaud in the security council. It never happens, it happened that day.” At 3:28, Congressman Zeldin said, “I do want to ask about the Taylor Force Act, which now has growing bipartisan support in Congress, which would withhold aid to the Palestinian Authority until it stops inciting violence and financially rewarding terrorists, a policy otherwise known as ‘pay to slay’. Have you taken any position you are able to share with regards to what your opinion is on the Taylor Force Act?” At 3:51, Ambassador Haley responded, “So I've met with the Family and yes, I'm very vocal about the fact that the U.S. gives bilateral money to the Palestinian Authority, and we need to have a strong conversation with them on how these martyr payments have to stop. And I think that it's one of those things that by us giving money we are supporting it and we have to make that correlation with them and let them know that that's not something we are going to accept or do going forward.” At 4:17, Congressman Zeldin concluded, “I think it’s great that you did meet with the family of Taylor Force. This isn't an Israeli, it’s an American who graduated from the United States Military Academy, and I appreciate your leadership.”
06.28.2017	Jamesport, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced today that the Jamesport Fire Department has been awarded $104,762 through the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. Funding from this grant will be used to purchase critical communications equipment, including vehicle radios and mobile data terminals. Congressman Zeldin said, “I am proud to announce that this essential funding has been awarded to the Jamesport Fire Department. This grant will be used to purchase much needed communications supplies. It is absolutely essential that our firefighters are able to utilize the best possible equipment; these brave men and women put their lives on the line every day to protect our communities, and they should have access to every resource available. I would like to thank FEMA for their assistance in carrying out this important mission.” “The Jamesport Fire District is pleased to be awarded a Firefighter Grant from FEMA. This very much needed funding will assist the district in updating our antiquated communication system that is now in service. The base station used for dispatching will be replaced as well as communication equipment in our vehicles enabling the fire district to better serve our community without having to tax the residents. We thank Congressman Zeldin and his office staff for all their assistance in applying for and ultimately receiving this firefighters grant!” said Sean M. McCabe, District Manager of the Jamesport Fire Department. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) helps fire departments, emergency medical service organizations, and other first responders receive the necessary equipment, vehicles, training, and other resources needed to ensure public safety.
06.27.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) issued a new policy for complex rehabilitative power wheelchairs and related accessories. This policy change helps ensure that disabled individuals have access to quality and affordable medical devices which they rely upon for day to day living. With enactment of the new CMS rule, individuals who utilize power wheelchairs and related accessories will now be guaranteed fixed prices for the equipment they rely upon. Further action is still required to align complex manual wheelchair pricing with complex power equipment pricing. In Congress, Rep. Zeldin will continue advancing his bipartisan bill (H.R. 1361) to further protect patients who utilize this Complex Rehabilitation Technology (CRT). To read more about the bill, click here. This announcement comes after Congressman Zeldin joined last week with Representatives Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R, WA-5), Dave Loebsack (D, IA-2), and Diana DeGette (D, CO-1), and co-led a bipartisan group of over 150 co-signers in the House of Representatives to express their joint concerns with the CMS policies and regulations related to the Durable Medical Equipment (DME) benefit in the Medicare program. DME is equipment required by patients for medical conditions. Examples include wheelchairs, crutches, ventilators, among much more. Currently, CMS policies and regulations related to DME have resulted in significant reductions in reimbursement, which severely limit access to DME accessories. These policies and regulations also shifted costs to other areas of Medicare. To view a copy of the letter, which was sent to the Honorable Tom Price, Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, and Ms. Seema Verma, Administrator of CMS, click here. Congressman Zeldin said, “I am pleased that the administration has reversed a prior executive branch policy for power wheelchairs and related accessories. This effort ensures that beneficiaries will have affordable access to the equipment and supplies they rely upon for daily living, which is why my legislative proposal has such strong bipartisan support in the House. Protecting patients and ensuring they have access to the care and equipment that they need and deserve must always be a bipartisan priority.” “On behalf of United Spinal Association and the one million individuals living with spinal cord injuries and disorders across the country, we are so appreciative of Congressman Zeldin of New York, along with Congressman Larson of Connecticut, for introducing HR 1361 which requests that CMS permanently exempt complex rehab power and manual wheelchair components from Medicare’s competitive bidding program’s reduced pricing. Late on Friday, days before a June 30 expiring deadline, CMS shared good news with Congress and leading advocates that CMS has now permanently exempted power wheelchair components from its competitive bidding program. Thanks again to Congressman Zeldin and Congressman Larson for their leadership in the House. Power wheelchair users across the country can continue to receive the power wheelchair components that they need from their choice of wheelchair provider. We now turn our attention to exempting manual wheelchair components from Medicare’s competitive bidding program” said James Weisman of Oyster Bay, NY, President and CEO, United Spinal Association. United Spinal is headquartered in New York. Don Clayback, Executive Director of National Coalition for Assistive and Rehab Technology, said, “Congressman Zeldin personally took this issue on in 2015 and has continued to work on it through the introduction of legislation and pursuing administrative relief. His continued leadership and perseverance on behalf of the people with disabilities who rely on specialized complex rehab technology wheelchairs should be applauded. This policy change will make a very positive difference in the lives of people with disabilities.” “The Society applauds the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services for clarifying that power CRT accessories are to be paid at traditional Medicare rates,” says Bari Talente, Executive Vice President of Advocacy for the National MS Society. “This will help ensure that people with progressed MS have access to fundamental components of wheelchairs like tilt-and-recline systems and customized seat cushions that keep them healthy and independent. We also thank Rep. Zeldin for his leadership—bringing attention to the importance of this issue, as we continue to work for protected access to manual CRT accessories and CRT generally.”
06.26.2017	Westhampton, NY - U.S. Senators Chuck Schumer (D, NY) and Kirsten Gillibrand (D, NY), Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), and Suffolk County Executive Steve Bellone announced today that a $150,000 federal grant has been awarded to Francis Gabreski Airport in Westhampton, home of the 106th Rescue Wing of the Air National Guard. The grant, secured through the U.S. Department of Transportation, is being provided to Suffolk County to begin an anti-obstruction project at Gabreski, which is a four-phase effort to improve the safety of aircraft taking off and landing at the airport. This grant will be used to implement the first phase of an important project to remove obstructions that impact safety on runways 1/19, 6/24 and 15/33, and other approach and departure paths. “Keeping our infrastructure in top-notch shape and maintaining safety on the runways at our airports is essential. This important federal investment will enable safer service for our service members at the 106th Rescue Wing of the Air National Guard and all pilots who fly in and out of Gabreski Airport,” said Senator Schumer. “Investing in our airport infrastructure enables safer, more efficient service for the businesses, travelers, and service members from the 106th Rescue Wing of the New York Air National Guard who utilize it every day,” said Senator Gillibrand. “These funds will provide additional resources for the Francis Gabreski Airport to invest in runway safety operations. I will continue to push for resources that enhance efficiency and public safety at airports across New York.” Congressman Zeldin said, “The 106th Rescue Wing of the New York Air National Guard plays a crucial role to protect our national security and New York's emergency response capabilities, which is why keeping Gabreski’s runways in great condition must be a top priority. This federal funding will allow the airport to begin an important project to improve the safety of aircraft utilizing the runway.” “This infrastructure improvement will enhance safety conditions for our armed forces and other emergency personnel who operate at Gabreski National Airport,” said Suffolk County Executive Bellone. “Suffolk County is proud to be a partner in the operation of Gabreski Airport, and I applaud Senators Schumer and Gillibrand, as well as Congressman Zeldin for fighting to secure this federal funding." After the completion of phase one, an environmental assessment will be done in phase two, which will be followed by the design stage in phase three. The final phase will be a construction project to remove obstructions.
06.26.2017	Op-ed Written by Congressman Lee Zeldin (NY-01) On June 14th, a Congressional Baseball Game practice of the Republican team turned into a near massacre at the hands of an individual from Illinois taking political disagreement to an unthinkable level. Opening fire on a nearly defenseless group participating in our nation’s pastime on a baseball diamond, unwavering heroism from Capitol Police saved everyone’s life except for the shooter. Five people, including House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, were badly and unnecessarily injured in this shameful act of violence. It is ok to disagree in our country. That freedom is one of the reasons we are able to live in the greatest nation in the world, but there is a way to disagree, and this cowardly act certainly should never be tolerated or acceptable. I believe strongly that everyone in our nation, spanning the ideological spectrum, can recommit ourselves today to being more unified as Americans first above all else. Congress, like our nation at large, is composed of individuals of many very diverse backgrounds and perspectives on the many challenges facing our country. From the bluest, most liberal leaning districts in America, to the reddest, most conservative leaning districts, our diversity of thought and passion is absolutely something to be embraced. As citizens of the United States, we are also all blessed with the ability to openly discuss and debate conflicting viewpoints with the intention of better understanding each other and the many ideas on potential solutions. Differences are acceptable and debate is healthy, but the norm must include a vigorous pursuit of common ground wherever possible. The founding bedrock of our democracy is the guarantee that not only are diverse voices heard, but are productively, substantively debated amongst our nation’s citizens and leaders alike with the goal of bettering our shared nation. The events that culminated on the morning of June 14 stand in stark contrast to these principles. In the wake of this senseless act of violence, we must stand together as Americans united in our intolerance of intolerance itself. We will never allow ourselves to be intimidated by those who use violence to spread their hateful message. June 14, 2017 should serve as a reminder of what happens when we allow hatred to divide us to the extreme. Throughout our nation’s long and storied history, Americans from all walks of life have consistently joined together to reject injustice wherever it may exist. It is this strength which unifies us as citizens of the greatest country on Earth. We must always hold bipartisanship, unity, and our bond as Americans in the highest regard. I would like to pass along our prayers and best wishes to all of the victims of the Alexandria shooting: House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, Zack Barth, Matt Mika, and a very special thank you to Capitol Police Officers Crystal Griner and David Bailey. I’ve spent time with Steve’s security detail through the years and I can personally vouch for their extraordinary talent and professionalism. All Americans have a perennial obligation to provide our police officers with every ounce of support we have to offer. We are all universally reliant on the ceaseless protection offered by law enforcement, and our support for these brave men and women should never be a partisan issue. Being present at the Congressional Baseball Game and Softball Game for charity was a truly breathtaking experience. The sheer amount of American pride reverberating throughout the crowds could be felt by everyone there, Republican, Democrat, or Independent. This outpouring of support from all corners proves that bipartisanship is not and can not be dead. However, it should never take a horrible tragedy to remind us just how important these virtues are. There are so many challenges that exist, but we must start by reaching across the aisle to find common ground and move our country forward. Like many of my colleagues in Congress, I am willing to work with absolutely anyone to better our community, state and nation. At the end of the day, we are all Americans, and during this time of polarization and political strife, coming together as one nation, one people, is more important than ever before. Not one of the obstacles we face as Americans is insurmountable; however, one party alone cannot overcome every last challenge that exists. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues from across the political spectrum as we strive for a better America. Congressman Lee Zeldin, member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and House Financial Services Committee, represents the First Congressional District of New York.
06.25.2017	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement today after the website for the Town of Brookhaven, located in New York’s First Congressional District, was hacked to display pro-ISIS propaganda. In addition, several websites for the Ohio state government, including the website for Governor John Kasich, were reportedly hacked as well. Congressman Zeldin said, “While we are still waiting on more intel as to this pro-ISIS hack, I have been in touch with Brookhaven Town Deputy Supervisor and Councilman Dan Panico and offered to assist in any way possible with regards to securing necessary support and resources from the federal government. I will continue to do anything in my power to improve cyber security and protect against other threats facing our nation at home and abroad.”
06.23.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced that the bipartisan Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act (S.1094) was signed into law today by President Trump. This bill, which passed the House of Representatives on June 13, 2017, makes commonsense reforms to the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), by ensuring accountability throughout the VA and expanding protections for whistleblowers. The legislation also provides the VA Secretary with the authority to remove a VA employee based on misconduct or poor performance. Congressman Zeldin said, “The Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act, which is now law, will reform and strengthen our VA system. A key part of this reform legislation is to hold poor performing employees accountable by providing VA administration with necessary resources and flexibility. I believe that nearly all VA employees genuinely care about the work they do and want to help veterans, but we must always ensure that the 1% who are not acting in the best interest of veterans are held accountable. Also included in this law is much needed protection for whistleblowers, which will ensure that those who come forward about wrongdoings will be protected. Reforming the VA to improve the quality of care for our nation’s heroes is necessary. This new law is an important step forward to best care for our veterans.”
06.22.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, released a statement today calling for full funding of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (S. 524), or CARA, in Fiscal Year 2018 appropriations legislation. CARA is a new law calling for $8.3 billion in funding over five years to help combat the heroin and opioid epidemic through community treatment, recovery, and education efforts. Some of the significant provisions of this bill include $103 million over the authorization of the bill to establish a community-based competitive grant program to address and treat the challenges associated with heroin and opioid addiction and abuse, as well as $160 million over the same period to expand existing medically assisted treatments, support newly created treatment programs, and allow pregnant women, veterans, and children to receive the specialized treatment programs they need through community based initiatives. Congressman Zeldin said, “It is absolutely critical that CARA is fully funded through the appropriations process for the coming year. Drug addiction is a terrible disease which has devastated our communities, taken countless lives, and torn families apart. As one of the greatest threats facing our nation, we must explore every avenue available to take on this challenge, and I am proud to do my part in Congress. This problem is far too serious to be taken lightly, especially for many of our Long Island communities which have been dealing with the destructive consequences of heroin and opioid abuse for years. While I was proud to cosponsor and help pass this legislation last year, there is still so much more to be done. We must ensure that all of the vital community initiatives in CARA remain fully funded, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to fulfill this essential mission.” The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act was signed into law on July 22, 2016. Congressman Zeldin has been a strong advocate and cosponsor of CARA, hosting two press conferences in July 2015 and May 2016, where he joined with local elected officials, community groups and concerned residents to express their support for the bill.
06.21.2017	Washington, DC - Last night, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) addressed his colleagues in the House of Representatives in support of H.R. 1871, the Property Tax Reduction Act, which was introduced in the House by fellow New York Representatives, Congressman Chris Collins (R, NY-27) and Congressman John Faso (R, NY-19). The Property Tax Reduction Act would shift to the state level the local share of Medicaid costs currently paid by all New York counties outside of New York City. A copy of Congressman Zeldin’s statement is below: “I rise today in support of H.R. 1871, the Property Tax Reduction Act, which is essential legislation to give our counties and taxpayers desperately needed fiscal relief and to help bring New York’s Medicaid costs under control. Under current federal law, states are allowed to impose a portion of their state Medicaid funding responsibility onto local municipalities. My state, New York, chose to take advantage of this in an extreme sense. In 2015, for example, New York transferred more than $7.2 billion of its non-federal Medicaid burden to counties. The burden New York has placed on its counties is greater than any other state in our country. The other 49 states combined only burden their counties with about $2.3 billion in Medicaid costs. This means that New York counties pay three times more for Medicaid than all other counties in the country combined. My home county, Suffolk, pays, on average, approximately a quarter billion dollars per year to the state for Medicaid, with $243,470,248, for example, being spent in 2015. Protecting our most vulnerable population is essential, and ensuring adequate funding for Medicaid programs is vital; however, New York’s program has dangerously exploded. Our county governments around New York are in dire need of the fiscal relief provided through this legislation. There is no reason New York State cannot identify and achieve the $2.3 billion amount of efficiency necessary and available in the state Medicaid system, while at the same time making it clear that this can be achieved without harming any low income residents in need of coverage. If the state needs any advice on how to accomplish this, I am here to help. The state’s conversion to Managed Long Term Care, gross overbilling of Medicaid into the hundreds of millions of dollars by some entities, eight and nine figure at a time handouts to 1199 SEIU to curry political favor, and many other issues result in a major problem that must be immediately confronted head on. Not only does New York State spend more money on Medicaid than Illinois, Texas and Florida combined, but it spends just about the same amount on Medicaid costs that Florida spends on its entire state budget despite having an almost identically sized population. H.R. 1871 would single handily flip Suffolk County's recurring massive nine-figure budget deficits into budget surpluses. For residents of my district, this is a dream scenario that lifts our county out of a very dire annual budget crisis. If this bill became law, you could eliminate Suffolk's $50 million annual property tax levy completely, eliminate Suffolk's $150 million structural deficit, and have $50 million left over for combating the heroin and opioid epidemic, improving infrastructure, public works programs, environmental preservation and coastal erosion programs, upgraded and improved sewering or for some other purpose that county residents deems necessary. Passage of this bill is critical to providing necessary relief not only for Suffolk County, but many counties across New York. I urge all my colleagues to support this important measure, I thank Congressmen Chris Collins and John Faso for this proposal, and I look forward to getting this bill across the finish line. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I yield back.”
06.20.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined with Representatives Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R, WA-5), Dave Loebsack (D, IA-2), and Diana DeGette (D, CO-1), and co-led a bipartisan group of over 150 co-signers in the House of Representatives to express their joint concerns with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) policies and regulations related to the Durable Medical Equipment (DME) benefit in the Medicare program. DME is equipment required by patients for medical conditions. Examples include wheelchairs, crutches, ventilators, among much more. Currently, CMS policies and regulations related to DME have resulted in significant reductions in reimbursement, which severely limit access to DME accessories. These policies and regulations also shifted costs to other areas of Medicare. You can view a copy of the letter, which was sent to the Honorable Tom Price, Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, and Ms. Seema Verma, Administrator of CMS, here: 061417 DME Letter to Price Verma.pdf Congressman Zeldin said, “It is imperative that all of the relevant CMS policies and regulations are reviewed by the new administration to ensure beneficiaries will have access to affordable DME equipment. It must always be a top priority for members on both sides of the aisle to ensure that patients have access to the care and equipment that they need and deserve.” Earlier this year, Congressman Zeldin re-introduced his bipartisan bill to protect people with disabilities, by ensuring they have access to vital equipment (H.R. 1361). The Congressman’s legislation, which clarifies the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act (MIPPA) of 2008, is an important bill to secure the essential specialized power wheelchairs and related accessories relied on by people with disabilities and their families. Read more here.
06.16.2017	Stony Brook, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced today that Stony Brook University was awarded $822,419 from the National Science Foundation (NSF). This funding will be used in the development of hardware and software platforms used for pervasive edge sensing and computing. This technology will revolutionize sensing applications used in many modern devices, including smartphones, while greatly benefiting researchers and educators. Congressman Zeldin said, “I am proud to announce that this $822,419 National Science Foundation grant has been secured for Stony Brook University, which will help the university continue its amazing work in the creation of new platforms to improve many of the devices we use on a daily basis. For over 50 years, Stony Brook has been a world leader in scientific research and a critical component of the science community here on Long Island. It is so important that we continue to provide necessary aid to our scientific institutions.” “At Stony Brook University, our researchers are passionately engaged in the most relevant issues of our time, pursuing ideas that lead to viable solutions,” said Stony Brook University President Samuel L. Stanley. “I look forward to tracking the progress of Professor Ye’s NSF-funded work. I am confident that it will greatly impact current smart application technology, and will very likely change how we are doing things today.” Led by the College of Engineering and Applied Sciences, this $822,419 NSF award will design, create and evaluate a novel hardware and software platform where heterogeneous peripheral modules and modularized FPGA/software computation components can be easily composed electrically and computationally, like interlocking Lego pieces, to create various customized edge sensing and computing devices for "smart" applications. "Our goal is to develop a customizable research platform, whose hardware and software can be reconfigured to support systems for innovations in smart vehicles, mobile computing and Internet-of-Things," said Fan Ye, assistant professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, and the principal investigator on the NSF funded project. Created by the U.S. Congress in 1950, the National Science Foundation (NSF) is an agency which promotes the progress of science, advances national health, prosperity, and welfare, and works to secure our national defense. On April 6, 2017, Congressman Zeldin announced that NSF awarded $998,750 in funding to Stony Brook University to provide scholarship support for students enrolling in a Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) major. Click here to read more about that funding.
06.15.2017	Washington, DC - Reps. Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) and Carolyn B. Maloney (D, NY-12), members of the House Financial Services Committee, announced today that their bipartisan bill, the NFIP Policyholder Protection Act (H.R. 2868), which was introduced earlier this week, passed through the Financial Services Committee as part of Congress’ overall effort to reauthorize and reform the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). The NFIP Policyholder Protection Act would result in a credit to homeowners with NFIP policies who invest in mitigation activities, such as elevating their homes, adding porous foundations, or moving boilers to a higher floor, which would result in lower premiums and help reduce the cost to homeowners. Among other provisions, the bill also requires FEMA to better cover co-op units within NFIP. Congressman Zeldin said, “I am proud to announce that my bipartisan bill to protect homeowners on Long Island and across our state and country has passed through committee. The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), which so many homeowners rely on, currently has a debt of $24.6 billion and must be reformed so that the program will continue to provide homeowners with access to affordable insurance. In NY-1, which is almost completely surrounded by water, we saw firsthand during Super Storm Sandy just how many homeowners rely upon NFIP to protect their property. I’ve heard time and again from homeowners in my district who are frustrated with the process. More can and must be done to protect homeowners’ access to affordable insurance, and improve the way claims are processed so that policyholders aren’t stuck dealing with bureaucracy and red tape after their property is damaged by a flood. We also must shift the focus toward mitigation so that there is an incentive for homeowners and communities to take proactive steps to protect against flood damage. Despite homeowners doing the right thing and elevating or renovating their home to protect their property, many have not seen a return on their investment in the form of lower NFIP premiums. The NFIP Policyholder Protection Act would ensure that preparedness is a critical focus to protect life and property. Passage of this legislation is very important for homeowners on Long Island and across the country. I'm very grateful of the strong leadership and bipartisan support of Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney, Chairman Jeb Hensarling and Chairman Sean Duffy and I look forward to working with all of my colleagues in Congress to get this bill on the House floor and passed.” Congresswoman Maloney said, “The flood insurance program covers all types of communities — from small rural towns, to dense urban areas like New York City, which I’m privileged to represent. The differences between these types of communities are perhaps most important when it comes to mitigation under the flood insurance program. Some mitigation options that are available in smaller communities — such as elevating the house — are simply not an option in New York; you can’t elevate a 50-story apartment building. But that doesn’t mean that there are no mitigation options for New York. This bill recognizes these different circumstances in cities like New York, and would explicitly allow policyholders to receive credit for mitigation techniques that can be deployed on a block or neighborhood scale, ideal for dense urban cities like New York. The bill would also allow policyholders to receive mitigation credit for the elevation of mechanical systems — such as boilers — which, when they’re not elevated, can be a huge source of losses for FEMA as we saw in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy. This is especially important because effective mitigation of flood risks helps both policyholders and taxpayers. It helps policyholders because they can receive lower premiums when they’ve reduced their flood risk through effective mitigation techniques and it helps taxpayers because it reduces the risk that FEMA will have to pay out large claims when there’s a flood. I’m proud to have worked with Rep. Zeldin on this bill.” New York City’s Chief Resilience Officer Dan Zarrilli said, “New York City is pleased to see proposed legislation that emphasizes feasible mitigation options for the types of buildings that are built in dense urban environments. These mitigation options will enable homeowners and businesses to reduce their flood risk in an affordable way, which is necessary to enhance resiliency in cities across the nation." “Super Storm Sandy served as a devastating reminder of how vulnerable Long Islanders are to nature’s fury,” said Brookhaven Town Supervisor Ed Romaine. “Congressman Zeldin’s legislation, which I strongly support, is in the best interest of homeowners who do the right thing by taking steps to protect their homes and property. I urge Congress to follow his lead and move this forward before the next major weather event brings more flooding to our shoreline communities.” Paul Pontieri, Mayor of the Village of Patchogue, said, “As a waterfront community many residents of Patchogue Village, like many others on Long Island, suffered severe damage on their homes. Unfortunately even after the storm passed the suffering continued with the reconstruction of their homes and the prospect of extremely high insurance rates. Congressman Zeldin's legislation offers the needed relief these families need to continue to live their lives in the communities they love.” The NFIP Policyholder Protection Act has received strong bipartisan support from elected officials in New York. The legislation is also supported by 16 organizations, including the National Multifamily Housing Council (NMHC), National Wildlife Federation, and the American Consumer Institute.
06.14.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement on the shooting that took place this morning at the Congressional Baseball game practice in Alexandria, Virginia. "Following this morning's shooting at the Congressional baseball game practice, I would like to send my best wishes to my great colleague from Louisiana, House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, and all others who were injured. I've spent a lot of time interacting with Steve's security detail and they are so talented on so many levels. From all accounts I have heard from colleagues on the field, these Capitol Police officers saved the lives of many Members of Congress this morning and I have the highest respect for everything they do exceptionally this morning and every other day. Praying for a speedy recovery for all who were harmed by this morning's attack." The Congressional Baseball game is an annual fundraising event for charity that was scheduled for tomorrow evening at Nationals Park.
06.13.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced that the Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act (S.1094), bipartisan legislation that passed the House of Representatives today, will be sent to the President to be signed into law. The Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act makes commonsense reforms to the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), by ensuring accountability throughout the VA and expanding protections for whistleblowers. The legislation also provides the Secretary of the VA with the authority to remove a VA employee based on misconduct or poor performance. Congressman Zeldin said, “Today, I voted in support of the Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act, which makes much needed reforms to our VA system and provides the necessary resources and flexibility VA administration needs to hold poor performing employees accountable. While I have always believed that 99% of VA employees genuinely care about the work they do and want to help veterans, we must always ensure that the 1% of those who are not acting in the best interest of veterans are held accountable. The legislation also further protects whistleblowers, ensuring those who come forward about wrongdoings will be protected. With both House and Senate passage of this bipartisan bill, we are now one step closer to this bill being signed into law by the President. Supporting our veterans must always be one of our top priorities. Reforming the VA to improve the quality of care for our nation’s heroes is necessary in that effort.” The Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act (S.1094) passed the Senate on June 6, 2017.
06.13.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Financial Services Committee and Housing and Insurance Subcommittee, announced today that he has introduced the NFIP Policyholder Protection Act (H.R. 2868), as part of Congress’ overall effort to reauthorize and reform the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). The bill is expected to be marked up in committee as early as this week. Congressman Zeldin’s bill would result in a credit to policyholders who invest in mitigation activities, such as elevating their homes, adding porous foundations, or moving boilers to the second floor, to lower premiums and help reduce the cost to homeowners. The legislation also caps the maximum premium that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) can charge a policyholder in a given year at $10,000 per year to protect and expand homeowners’ access to quality insurance so that they are prepared for the next storm. Additionally, the bill requires FEMA to move toward providing coverage for co-op units within the NFIP program. There are more than 9,300 co-op housing units in Suffolk County alone and many of them are within flood hazard zones. By allowing individuals and families access to flood insurance plans to protect their units, residents will have more flexibility to protect their homes. Congressman Zeldin said, “NY-1 is almost completely surrounded by water, which is why, as we saw during Super Storm Sandy, so many homeowners rely upon the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) to protect their property. However, NFIP is in dire need of reform to address the program’s debt of $24.6 billion, protect homeowners’ access to affordable insurance, and improve the way claims are processed so that policyholders aren’t stuck dealing with bureaucracy and red tape after their property is damaged by a flood. That is why, as part of the overall effort to reauthorize and reform NFIP, I have introduced the NFIP Policyholder Protection Act. Making insurance more affordable and providing more access to NFIP policies are key. We also must shift the focus toward mitigation so that there is an incentive for homeowners and communities to take proactive steps to protect against flood damage. A recurring concern that I hear across the district is that homeowners who have done the right thing and elevated or renovated their homes have not seen a corresponding drop in flood insurance premiums. Taxpayers save $3 for every $1 that is spent on mitigation, which is a key reason why preparedness must be a critical focus to protect life and property. Also worth noting, NFIP also has a government monopoly that crowds out private insurers and makes it difficult for them to write and sell these supplemental plans so essential on Long Island. Passage of this bill is critical to protect homeowners on Long Island and across the country. I look forward to getting this bill across the finish line.”
06.12.2017	Op-ed Written by Congressman Lee Zeldin (NY-01) The rise of drug abuse, addiction, and crime related to the heroin and opioid abuse epidemic is a deadly and destructive scourge that must be directly combatted and eradicated. Too many lives have been cut short; too many families ripped apart. No parent should ever have to bury their child for any reason, especially because they were suffering from a drug addiction and could not get the help they desperately needed. This problem is not going away unless something bold and massive is done that squashes this plague at the root of its source. Our communities and families on Long Island have been especially impacted by the rise of prescription drug abuse and the growing heroin epidemic. As such, it is so important that we ensure every available resource is utilized to eradicate drug abuse from our neighborhoods. A key aspect of achieving this objective involves collaborative efforts with local elected officials, law enforcement, health professionals, community groups, parents, concerned residents and those in recovery, to discuss and develop localized community based solutions to tackle this crisis, by increasing treatment, recovery services, and education. To further support our communities as they take on this challenge, I was proud to have cosponsored and helped pass the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (S. 524), or CARA, in the last Congress. This critical legislation provides a total of $8.3 billion in funding over five years to help combat the heroin and opioid abuse epidemic, and funds many initiatives on the local level. This includes $103 million over the five year authorization of the bill to establish a community-based competitive grant program to address and treat the challenges associated with heroin and opioid addiction and abuse, $160 million in funding over the authorization period for newly created treatment programs, the expansion of existing medically assisted treatments, and specialized treatment programs for pregnant women, veterans, and children through community based initiatives, and so much more. Improving access and affordability of healthcare in America is another critical aspect of this fight. Addiction is a disease, and it should be treated as such. Unless we systematically and proactively restructure our existing options in healthcare positively, many Americans suffering from drug addiction will never recover. This includes ensuring access to insurance policies which cover long term treatment for those who desperately need it. Too often, those suffering from drug addiction are unable to receive the continuous coverage required for true recovery, and tragically lose their lives as a result. I have also made it a priority to ensure that our communities are provided with higher supplies of Naloxone, or Narcan, a life saving medication that is safe and easy to administer, and has been proven to reverse an overdose within minutes. In addition to a provision of CARA which gives additional funding for a greater community supply of Narcan, I was a strong cosponsor of the Stop Overdose Stat (SOS) Act (H.R. 2850) in the 114th Congress which would provide an additional $25 million over a 5 year period for production and distribution to make sure that medical professionals and families have it in their possession, and are trained and ready to administer it. However, we must be sure that those who are saved by Narcan do not just return right away to using again and are immediately provided with the help needed to fully recover. Through the Consolidated Appropriations Act (H.R. 244), bipartisan legislation which recently passed the House, $3.6 billion will be provided to aid in the implementation of CARA. The bill funds the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration (SAMHSA) at $130.5 million above the previous Administration’s budget request to aid in these efforts, while maintaining robust funding for the Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Block Grant at $1.8 billion. In addition, $500 million in funding will be authorized through the 21st Century Cures Act (H.R. 34); bipartisan legislation which was passed and signed into law at the end of the last Congress. This provides a total increase of $650 million for initiatives to address the opioid crisis. I also announced last week that, through H.R. 244, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has made available over $70 million in community based grants to combat this threat, which includes $28 million in funding for medication-assisted treatment (MAT) to help treat those suffering. In addition to providing vital funding for treatment and education efforts, it is imperative that we take the necessary steps to secure our borders against those who bring in illicit substances which have wrecked havoc within our communities. It is good news that H.R. 244 also includes $1.5 billion in increased funding for border security to strengthen infrastructure and technology, and improve Border Patrol hiring initiatives. As part of a legislative package to combat drug abuse, several bills to cut the flow of drugs coming into our nation have passed the House. This includes H.R. 3380, a bill to help law enforcement officials identify and target drug traffickers, as well as the Kingpin Designation Improvement Act of 2016 (H.R. 4985) to further combat narcotics trafficking, by allowing for easier prosecution of these criminals. Addiction is a devastating disease that takes lives, tears families apart, and destroys our communities. The heroin and opioid abuse crisis has severely impacted our local community and has become a major issue across the country. It must be stopped. This is an effort that must be addressed at all levels of government. In Congress, I’ll continue working to advance legislation that helps those coping with drug addiction, by increasing treatment and recovery services to stop the tragic loss of life, family, and community as a result of addiction. This problem is far too serious to ignore, fail and not confront head on boldly and massively. I’ve personally been to too many wakes and funerals for young men and women who have lost their lives way too early and sadly. There remains so many lives that can still be saved. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York. The Congressman serves as a member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic in the House of Representatives, which focuses on finding solutions to this crisis, spreading awareness and increasing educational efforts.
06.12.2017	Center Moriches, NY - On Saturday, June 10, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke at the 4th Annual Joseph P. Dwyer Veterans Peer Support Project Day of Wellness in Center Moriches. While serving in the NYS Senate, Congressman Zeldin created the Dwyer Program, a peer-to-peer support program for veterans suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI); named in honor of PFC Joseph Dwyer, a fallen service member from Mt. Sinai. As part of this program, the Day of Wellness is a free event for veterans and their families to enjoy activities and connect with health practitioners. In Congress, Rep. Zeldin has reintroduced his legislation to expand the Dwyer Program to the national level (H.R. 897). Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, center, with Suffolk County Executive Steve Bellone, center right, speaking about the importance of the Dwyer Program and ensuring our veterans have access to the care and resources they need.
06.12.2017	Stony Brook, NY - On Saturday, June 10, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Long Island State Veterans Home Medal Ceremony to honor veterans of the Vietnam War. At the ceremony, hosted by the Long Island Chapter of the Air Force Association, Congressman Zeldin was a featured speaker and had the honor of presenting these heroes with their 50th Anniversary Vietnam War Commemorative Medal. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, presenting a veteran with his medal.
06.12.2017	Farmingville, NY — On Saturday, June 10, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted his annual Service Academy Information Day at Brookhaven Town Hall for this fall’s incoming class of High School juniors and seniors who are considering the possibility of attending a Service Academy after graduation. At the event, interested students and their families were able to speak with representatives from each of the five service academies and learn more about Congressman Zeldin’s nomination application process. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, center, discussing the process for receiving a Service Academy nomination. Members of Congress may nominate candidates for appointment to four of the five U.S. service academies: U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY; U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD; U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO; and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY. The fifth service academy, U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA), New London, CT, does not require a congressional nomination for appointment. For more information about Congressman Zeldin’s application process, please visit https://zeldin.house.gov/services/military-academy-nominations, or call the Congressman’s Patchogue District Office at (631) 289-1097.
06.08.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Financial Services Committee, announced that the House of Representatives just passed the Creating Hope and Opportunity for Investors, Consumers, and Entrepreneurs Act, legislation he cosponsors, otherwise known as the Financial CHOICE Act of 2017 (H.R. 10). The CHOICE Act addresses many of the harmful aspects of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, commonly referred to as “Dodd-Frank,” while imposing stricter accountability, ending “too big to fail” bank bailouts, increasing access to credit and capital for small businesses and individuals, and much more. CHOICE also provides necessary reforms to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), created under Dodd-Frank. CFPB has resulted in increased bank fees, more expensive home loans, reduced access to capital, and other harmful effects. In addition, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) recently reported that CHOICE will reduce the deficit by $24 billion over 10 years. Prior to the vote, Rep. Zeldin spoke on the House floor in favor of this legislation, which can be viewed here. Congressman Zeldin said, “The 2008 housing crash wreaked havoc on our nation and hurt millions of people from all corners of our nation. Government encouraged lenders to offer mortgages beyond the buyer's means. These mortgages were inappropriately given AAA ratings. Financial institutions purchased and held too many of these loans that were not rated correctly. When homeowners started defaulting, the whole system blew up. Enter Dodd-Frank, which has resulted in big banks getting bigger, and small banks becoming fewer, all while perpetuating ‘too big to fail’. As a result of Dodd-Frank, community banks and credit unions have had to lay off employees, sell to a large firm, or just disappear altogether because they cannot afford the compliance costs. This is why JP Morgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon calls Dodd-Frank a ‘moat’ between his large bank and the competition. At a time when some reports show that the U.S. economy is losing one community financial institution per day, reform is needed now more than ever before. “I am proud to have supported and helped pass the CHOICE Act, critical legislation which is so important to grow our economy, roll back many of the harmful regulations seen in Dodd-Frank, and strengthen our community banks and credit unions,” Congressman Zeldin continued. “This legislation will also impose the toughest penalties for financial fraud and deception ever seen before, holding the big banks accountable and putting an end to ‘Too Big To Fail’. CHOICE will also revamp CFPB to serve as an enforcement agency, working to enforce the laws already on the books and help the average American. Consumer protection is immensely important; however, CFPB’s undue influence has actively harmed the very people it purports to help.” “Dodd-Frank showed us that big government regulation and a one size fits all approach to the financial sector does not work for our community banks and credit unions, and it has done nothing but increase costs for both businesses and consumers. Passing CHOICE is a crucial next step to grow the American economy and unleash its full potential, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate to see this bill become law,” Congressman Zeldin concluded.
06.02.2017	Southampton, NY - On Tuesday, May 30, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) toured the Hudson River HealthCare Community Health (HRHCare) facility in Southampton. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, with Anne Kauffman Nolon, left, President and CEO of HRHCare.
06.01.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, released the following statement on the White House’s announcement to delay the move of the U.S. Embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem: Congressman Zeldin said, “Jerusalem is absolutely where our embassy belongs. Jerusalem is the unquestionable capital of Israel and should be fully recognized as such. In addition to all of the most sacred religious sites, Jerusalem is also the location of the Israeli Knesset and offices and residences of the Israeli Prime Minister and President. I strongly urge the President to reconsider this most recent announcement. It was a credit to the President's campaign last year that he knew and was outspoken for moving the U.S. embassy as the correct path forward.”
05.30.2017	East Setauket, NY - On Monday, May 29, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the East Setauket Memorial Day Parade. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, center, speaking with several NY-1 Jewish War Veterans (JWV) following the parade.
05.29.2017	Ronkonkoma, NY - On Sunday, May 28, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Honoring Our Heroes Street Fair in Ronkonkoma, hosted by the Ronkonkoma Chamber of Commerce. Held in honor of Memorial Day, the Honoring Our Heroes Street Fair donates part of its proceeds to local veterans’ organizations. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with several other local elected officials, discussing the importance of commemorating the sacrifices of our fallen servicemembers.
05.29.2017	East Patchogue, NY - On Sunday, May 28, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended a ceremony at VFW Post 8300 in East Patchogue in honor of Sergeant Roger Baker, a survivor of the Bataan Death March. This year is the 75th anniversary of the Bataan Death March, when approximately 75,000 American and Filipino prisoners of war were forcibly marched 65 miles to prison camps, during which thousands perished. At the ceremony, Sergeant Baker’s medals and uniform were dedicated to the Post to be put on display in his honor. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, during the dedication.
05.29.2017	Centereach, NY - On Sunday, May 28, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the Centereach Annual Memorial Day Parade hosted by VFW Post 4927. Pictured above, from left to right, are New York State Assemblyman Al Graf, Congressman Zeldin, Brookhaven Town Councilman Kevin LaValle, and Suffolk County Executive Steve Bellone.
05.29.2017	Today is Memorial Day; a day when we give thanks to those who have bravely fought and sacrificed their lives in defense of our freedoms and liberties. Let us join together in solemn remembrance to honor the tireless guardians who made the ultimate sacrifice. These heroes selflessly safeguarded the eternal values that we too often take for granted as Americans. All good things come with a price, and liberty is no exception. The cost of freedom was paid for by the lives of our fallen soldiers, and their sacrifice must always be held in the highest regard. As a nation, we can never forget the courageous deeds of our servicemembers. Regardless of one’s views on a particular conflict, or their positions on aspects of foreign policy, on Memorial Day, we come together as a nation to honor all who fought for our freedom to possess such dissents. It is the brave soldier who departed our nation, away from the safety of their home and comfort of their family, to whom we owe our highest respect and admiration. The United States is the greatest nation on Earth because of the courageous men and women who stood in the line of fire to protect us. At a time when the world has become vulnerable to the threat of violence, fear, and intimidation, it is so important that we give our service members our unyielding gratitude for all they have done for us. These heroes deserve to know that, after returning home from conflict, they will be greeted with the care and support from a grateful nation; respect which they have so remarkably earned. It is because of their selfless acts that we are able to call ourselves Americans, a distinction which not only expresses what country we are a part of or our sacred bond of national unity, but who we are as a nation that makes us the greatest country in the world. Our nation is nothing without the courageous sacrifices of our military members, and every single one of us should be eager to give our respects to all who came before us and paid the ultimate price, as well as all those who are still serving today. God Bless America and our service members! Congressman Lee Zeldin, an Army veteran who continues to serve today as a Major in the Army Reserves, represents the First Congressional District of New York.
05.25.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced today that a package of 13 bipartisan bills to help end human trafficking and combat child abuse and exploitation passed the House of Representatives this week. Some of the bills include the Targeted Rewards for the Global Eradication of Human Trafficking (H.R. 1625), Put Trafficking Victims First Act (H.R. 2473), Global Child Protection Act (H.R. 1862), Strengthening Children's Safety Act (H.R. 1842), Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act (H.R. 1188), Targeting Child Predators Act (H.R. 883), Child Protection Improvements Act (H.R. 695), and TARGET Act (H.R. 1625). These pieces of legislation will strengthen protections for children and provide law enforcement with the resources needed to prosecute and convict predators. Congressman Zeldin said, “Everyday, young adults and children within our nation are taken advantage of, abused, and neglected. Worse still is how many are trafficked, sold into a modern form of slavery, and utterly deprived of a childhood. It is during these pivotal years of their youth that they are most susceptible to harm, and require guidance and care from loved ones. One child being subjected to these horrors is too many, and as Americans we must do more to defend them. A crucial part of this is to ensure our law enforcement professionals are provided with the tools and information required to take down predators and traffickers. Children are the most vulnerable members of our society, and the thought that they may be exploited or worse is absolutely sickening. “As a father and Member of Congress, I am obligated to do everything possible to ensure that no child faces abuse or neglect, and that those who would commit such horrific crimes are apprehended and convicted. I am proud to have supported and helped pass this legislative package which directly strengthens protections within the United States by reauthorizing child safety programs, expanding safeguards for those minors engaging in foreign travel, authorizing law enforcement to better take down human traffickers, and much more. While no one bill will eradicate child abuse and exploitation, this package will fortify protections for our children and give law enforcement the teeth needed to take on these predators. No human being should ever be a victim to abuse, and I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress, as well as our officials on the state and local levels, as we move towards achieving this critical goal,” Congressman Zeldin concluded.
05.24.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement on the latest Congressional Budget Office (CBO) score of the American Health Care Act (AHCA), H.R. 1628, which passed the House of Representatives on May 4, 2017, to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act (ACA), otherwise known as Obamacare. “Today, the CBO released the latest score of the AHCA, which included amendments made to the bill in the House. Prior to the House vote on the AHCA, the CBO had previously scored almost this entire bill. The latest report states that the bill would reduce the federal deficit by $119 billion over the next 10 years, and lower individual insurance premiums even further than the CBO previously estimated. Furthermore, it’s very important to note that the CBO report is only scoring this one bill, and none of the other administrative and legislative components of the three part GOP plan. This bill will now be forwarded to the Senate as the next step of the legislative process, where further opportunity to debate and amend the legislative text will take place to further strengthen and improve this legislation. There are too many examples of how Obamacare is deeply flawed. Almost everyone agrees that the current system is failing. I voted for and support the American Health Care Act as a better alternative that eliminates nearly all of the ACA’s taxes and mandates, while continuing to protect individuals with pre-existing conditions. There is so much misinformation being circulated on the AHCA and I recently sent out this statement to help clear up some of the many lies. Throughout this entire process, I will continue to follow all developments closely and encourage all of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to be engaged productively with any great, additional legislative solutions they may have to contribute to this very important process.”
05.24.2017	Washington, DC - On Wednesday, May 24, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met outside the U.S. Capitol with 8th grade students from Center Moriches Middle School. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, center left, discussing education policy and answering other questions from the students
05.24.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued a statement today on the passing of William Carney, a former Congressman for New York’s First Congressional District. Mr. Carney served as a Representative for four terms, between 1979 and 1987, and was also a member of the Suffolk County Legislature, prior to his service in Congress. Congressman Zeldin said, “I am deeply saddened to hear about the passing of former Congressman William Carney, a principled, thoughtful, and highly respected leader who served his district with honor and distinction. A registered Conservative Party member in New York, Mr. Carney was a relentless fighter who deeply cared about his constituents, and had a long list of accomplishments during his tenure in Congress. This includes sponsorship of a bill which became law that designated areas of the Fire Island Seashore as wilderness, ensuring its conservation and protection. Always so very proud of America’s service members, having served in the Army himself in the 1960s, Rep. Carney was also a cosponsor of the Korean War Memorial Act, as well as a resolution to recognize the vital role played by members of the National Guard and Reserves in the defense of our nation. Mr. Carney will be remembered for his strength, integrity, and commitment to his district and nation. Our community honors the Carney family during this difficult time and thanks each and every one of them for Bill’s selfless service to Long Island and our country.”
05.23.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced today that his bipartisan legislation (H.R. 1005) to help severely disabled veterans on Long Island and across the country, by expanding access to Adult Day Health Care for disabled veterans who need extra assistance and special attention in their day to day lives, passed the House of Representatives today unanimously with strong bipartisan support. Prior to the House vote, Congressman Zeldin spoke in support of his bill on the House floor, which you can watch here. Service members who are 70% or more disabled from a service connected injury often require significant assistance from others in order to carry out basic everyday tasks. Many times, the burden falls on family members of disabled veterans; some veterans may even need to reside in institutionalized facilities to receive the daily assistance of a trained medical professional. Both of these options can create financial and emotional hardships. One program that is currently available to help disabled veterans is Adult Day Health Care, which can be offered at State Veterans Homes across the United States. However, the expense of the program is oftentimes directly shouldered by the veteran and their family, which significantly limits the number of veterans who can enroll. The program is also only currently offered at three facilities in the United States; one being the Long Island State Veterans Home, which is located in the First Congressional District of New York, in Stony Brook. Congressman Zeldin’s bill would define the Adult Day Health Care program as a reimbursable treatment option through the Department of Veterans Affairs, which would guarantee that all severely disabled veterans, those who are 70% or more service connected disabled, are able to access Adult Day Health Care at no cost to them. The bill would also help expand the program, which could be offered at any of the 153 State Veterans Homes (SVH) across the country. Congressman Zeldin said, “This is an important piece of legislation that provides a valuable and necessary service to our nation’s veterans, and I am pleased to announce that this bill passed the House of Representatives today. By expanding access to Adult Day Health Care programs, we can ensure that all veterans receive the best and most efficient outpatient services that provide each veteran with the assistance and special attention they need, while still allowing them to maintain their independence. With House passage of this bill, we are now one step closer to expanding care for disabled veterans on Long Island and across our country, allowing each veteran to lead a much more fulfilling life, while keeping families together and strong. Expanding Adult Day Health Care for our disabled veterans is a top priority. I encourage the Senate to act quickly and pass this commonsense bill.” Fred Sganga, Director of the Long Island State Veterans Home, said, “We are grateful to Congressman Lee Zeldin for his ongoing efforts to care for veterans both locally and nationally. H.R. 1005 will enable veterans to receive the essential services they deserve, while still being able to reside in their own homes. This legislation helps to restore a veteran's freedom to remain an active member of their community even after succumbing to the perils of military service. Congressman Zeldin never forgets the sacrifice of brave women and men who donned the uniform to protect the freedoms we all enjoy today.” "The dedicated staff and professionals that run the Adult Day Health Care program at the Long Island State Veterans Home at Stony Brook University are making a real difference in the quality of life by providing this important option to Long Island's disabled veterans and their families," said Stony Brook University President Samuel L. Stanley Jr., MD. "I commend Congressman Zeldin for his passionate approach, through this bill, to supporting our veterans in their time of need, by making this program more affordable and available on a national scale." H.R. 1005 has received strong bipartisan support, with 50 cosponsors in the House. The bill has also received support from various Veteran Service Organizations (VSOs), including the American Legion, AMVETS and Disabled American Veterans (DAV).
05.23.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement in response to the deadly terror attack that took place last night in Manchester, England, at an Ariana Grande concert, which killed 22 people and injured at least 59 more. ISIS has claimed responsibility for the attack: “Americans are deeply saddened and are praying for the victims and their families in the wake of the brutal terror attack last night in Manchester, England, which ISIS has claimed responsibility for carrying out. The targeting of innocent children and young adults especially is truly barbaric, and our thoughts are with the parents and families whose lives have been forever changed by this horrific attack. The threat posed by ISIS and other Islamic extremists is not just a threat to the Middle East, and unfortunately, far too often we are reminded that we must all do more to protect the innocent from radical terrorists who threaten peace and democracy all around the world. There must be a renewed focus to rid the world of radical Islamic terrorists as part of a stronger, more effective, and more collaborative foreign policy and terror-fighting policy.”
05.23.2017	Southampton, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced today that $4,743,060 in federal funding from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has been awarded to the Town of Southampton to repair the historic Old Ponquogue Trestle Bridge that was damaged during Super Storms Sandy and Irene. The $4.74 million in federal funding represents 90% of the cost share with the Town of Southampton. Congressman Zeldin said, “The Old Ponquogue Trestle Bridge was severely damaged during Super Storms Sandy and Irene. The storms caused significant damage to the bridge piers, which is why I have been working closely with the Town of Southampton and FEMA to ensure that the Town receives the funding needed to repair the bridge after the town applied for this federal funding in 2014. Funding for this improvement project is so critical to restoring this historic bridge, which was first built as a drawbridge back in 1930. The Old Ponquogue Trestle Bridge was not only a common form of transportation for Southampton residents, but is now used for fishing and wildlife enjoyment as well. I am pleased to announce that this federal funding has been awarded, and repairs of the bridge can now begin.” Southampton Town officials hope to begin the project in Fall of 2017 and conclude the project in the Spring of 2018.
05.23.2017	Washington, DC - On Monday, May 22, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke at a press conference hosted by Congressman Trent Franks (R, AZ-8) outside of the U.S. Capitol in Washington D.C. At the press conference, Congressman Zeldin spoke about the importance of strong U.S.-Israeli relations, the need to relocate the U.S. Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem, and recognizing Jerusalem as the unquestionable capital of Israel. Pictured above, from left to right, are Rep. Franks, Rep. Don Bacon (R, NE-2), Rep. Randy Weber (R, TX-14), Rep. Zeldin, Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R, GA-11), Rep. Matt Gaetz (R, FL-1), and Rep. Gary Palmer (R, AL-6).
05.22.2017	On Sunday, May 21, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke at the opening ceremony for the Wounded Warrior Amputee Softball Team at the Medford Athletic Complex. The Wounded Warrior Amputee Softball Team is made up of U.S. military veterans who were injured in combat and now wear a form of prosthesis. The team is dedicated to raising awareness about the sacrifices made by our veterans and their ability to overcome challenges despite their injuries. In the first photo, Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, center, addressing the crowd about the importance of honoring these heroes. In the second photo, Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, with a NY-1 veteran of the 82nd Airborne Division, left.
05.22.2017	Hauppauge, NY - On Saturday, May 20, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Suffolk County Armed Forces Day Ceremony at the H. Lee Dennison Building in Hauppauge. Celebrated on the third Saturday in May every year, Armed Forces Day was first observed in 1950 to honor those who have served and those who continue to serve in the five branches of the U.S. military. William Rodriguez (pictured above center), a U.S. Navy veteran, was one of the veterans to be honored at the ceremony. Mr. Rodriguez is retiring as a staffer of the Suffolk County Veterans Service Office, and was presented with a proclamation for his years of service. Pictured above, from left to right, are Tom Ronayne, Director of Suffolk County’s Veterans Service Office; Eric Hesse, Executive Director of the NYS Division of Veteran's Affairs; Mr. Rodriguez; Suffolk County Executive Steve Bellone; and Congressman Zeldin.
05.18.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Bipartisan Working Group, was appointed to the Speaker’s Task Force on Intergovernmental Affairs by Speaker Paul Ryan (R, WI-1) and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D, CA-12). The Task Force on Intergovernmental Affairs is a newly created task force that is comprised of 12 bipartisan lawmakers who will be focused on studying the proper balance of power between federal, state, tribal, and local governments. The Task Force on Intergovernmental Affairs will be led by the appointed Chairman, Rep. Rob Bishop (R, UT-1). Congressman Zeldin said, “It is an honor to be appointed to the bipartisan Task Force on Intergovernmental Affairs. In Congress, I have always been willing to work with absolutely anyone to move our country forward. I look forward to working closely with my colleagues from across the aisle to improve our community, state, and nation. Federalism is a vital principle upon which our country was founded. It is also part of what makes the United States such an exceptional nation, and it is a privilege to serve on a task force which works to advance this important cause.” Speaker Ryan said, “Federalism is not a Republican or Democrat principle, but an American principle—and one that is integral to a thriving culture and economy. But in recent years, the principle of federalism has been slowly chipped away at by an overzealous federal government. Congressman Zeldin and the other members of the task force, under Chairman Bishop’s leadership, will study ways to restore the proper balance of power between the federal government and states, tribal, and local governments, and eliminate unnecessary regulatory burdens facing communities across the nation.” Speaker Ryan announced the creation of the Task Force and membership this morning. You can read a copy of the release here.
05.18.2017	Washington, DC - On Thursday, May 18, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met on the steps of the U.S. Capitol with 8th grade students from Pierson Middle-High School in Sag Harbor, just before their tour of the building. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, answering questions from the students and discussing his work in Congress.
05.18.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued a statement in response to the United States Department of Justice’s determination that a Special Counsel be appointed to investigate matters related to “the 2016 presidential election and related matters”. The following statement from Congressman Zeldin was originally posted on Facebook yesterday evening: “The United States Department of Justice has determined that a Special Counsel should be named for the investigation into 'the 2016 presidential election and related matters'. I look forward to reviewing all findings and recommendations as a result of this investigation. This entire process must be entirely about facts. I will not rush to judgment without facts. This is a very wide ranging, multi faceted investigation that I completely support, and it must be thorough, complete, and accurate. This very important process must not be at all about jamming through highly charged, emotional and partisan conclusions. This also must not be an investigation desperately seeking a crime like a witch hunt. This is about facts first above all else wherever those facts may lead.”
05.17.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, issued a statement today in response to news out of the White House that the U.S. Embassy in Israel will not be moved from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. Congressman Zeldin said, “I strongly urge President Trump to keep his campaign promise of moving the U.S. Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem. Jerusalem is the unquestionable capital of Israel and should be fully recognized as such. In addition to all of the most sacred religious sites, Jerusalem is also the location of the Israeli Knesset and offices and residences of the Israeli Prime Minister and President. As Israel celebrates the 50th anniversary of the reunification of Jerusalem, this is an ill timed mistake on the part of the administration to make this decision and announcement. I strongly urge the President to reconsider. Additionally, I would also encourage him to allow Prime Minister Netanyahu to escort him to the Western Wall, which is absolutely also a part of Israel.
05.17.2017	Washington, DC - On Wednesday, May 17, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke at a luncheon in the U.S. Capitol, which commemorated the 50th anniversary of the Reunification of Jerusalem. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, center right, with Martin Oliner, Chairman of the Religious Zionists of America, center left.
05.17.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke on the House floor today to recognize 2017 National Police Week, which began on May 15th and runs through May 21st. You can watch his full speech here, or by clicking the video below.
05.16.2017	Centereach, NY - On Monday, May 15, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) held Mobile Office Hours at the Centereach Fire Department in Centereach. At Mobile Office Hours, Congressman Zeldin met with dozens of NY-1 constituents to discuss many important topics, including healthcare, the VA, foreign affairs, and local issues. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, with Andrew Garay, left, a Holocaust survivor, following their discussion about Medicare.
05.15.2017	There are so many features of our local environment to enjoy on Long Island, between the Pine Barrens, nature rails, or the significant number of state parks and beaches scattered throughout our area. However, as a natural reality of our enjoyment of these treasures, we also have to contend with tick-borne illness, incidents of which skyrocket during the summer months. The most common tickborne infection in the United States is Lyme Disease, which affects tens of thousands of Americans every year. Here in New York, in 2015, we had the third highest rate of Lyme Disease contraction. As someone who has personally contracted this disease, I can tell you that it is a very serious matter which requires our attention. We must do more to advance prevention and recovery efforts for Lyme Disease, which can be fatal if left untreated. May is Lyme Disease Awareness Month, and as members of a community which has an above average rate of contraction, we must each do our part to educate and minimize incidents of occurrence. Early indicators of Lyme Disease include flu-like symptoms, such as fever, muscle aches, and fatigue, as well as rashes, which often times may look like a bullseye. The key to prevention is tick check and removal, especially if you are out enjoying the summer in fields or tall grass. Should you or a member of your family suspect that you may have contracted the disease, it is so important that medical assistance is sought out as soon as possible. I have been honored to be part of the effort to combat Lyme Disease as your Representative. In the last Congress, I cosponsored and helped pass the 21st Century Cures Act (H.R. 34). This new law accelerates the process for scientific advancement, gives researchers access to necessary resources, and helps deliver lifesaving or life improving cures and treatments to Americans suffering from a disease. This critical piece of legislation provides $4.8 billion in new funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH), a part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, which conducts essential medical and public health research on illnesses such as Lyme. I was also a cosponsor of the Tick-Borne Disease Research and Accountability and Transparency Act (H.R. 789), which passed as part of H.R. 34, to further advance research on Lyme and other tick-borne illnesses. In addition, the recently enacted budget provides a $2 billion dollar increase for NIH, including the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, which focuses its efforts on diseases like Lyme. This funding will allow researchers to continue their work in finding new cures and treatments for the most prevalent diseases affecting Americans. The budget also increases funding for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) by $22 million. CDC conducts annual research on the effects of this disease, as well as preventative measures. Long Island is home to one of the most beautiful and unique environments throughout the entire nation, and with this distinction comes the responsibility of ensuring our residents remain protected. This month, we must stay vigilant and prepare ourselves to deal with the spread of Lyme Disease. While I will continue my work in Congress to ensure research for this disease remains funded at the appropriate levels, we must all join together as a community to overcome this challenge. Congressman Lee Zeldin, member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and House Financial Services Committee, represents the First Congressional District of New York.
05.11.2017	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement today regarding the strike at Clare Rose Inc. “Clare Rose has long been a well known, well run part of our local, Long Island economy, with some of the greatest, hard working employees in our entire community. I believe strongly that it is vitally important that both sides return to the negotiating table as soon as possible to reach an agreement that is mutually acceptable. I have had the opportunity to speak at length to Sean and Lisa Rose, as well as Teamsters Local 812 President Ed Weber and other local labor leaders, regarding the strike, the negotiations related to pension plans, and other important issues that all must be addressed in a timely manner. All sides need to come together so that these great employees can get back to work and we can keep the local economy moving.”
05.11.2017	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), co-chair of the Long Island Sound Caucus and a founding member of the bipartisan Congressional Estuary Caucus, announced today that new legislation (H.R. 244), which was recently passed by Congress and signed by the President, includes several key environmental wins for Long Island, such as: $8 million for the Long Island Sound Program, an increase by over $4 million; $26.7 million for the National Estuary Program, which includes two Long Island estuaries of national significance- Long Island Sound and Peconic; $72.5 million for the National Sea Grant College Program; $5.3 billion for the Department of Energy’s Office of Science; and $306 million for ARPA-E, an increase of $15 million. Long Island Sound Program: Funds water quality and wetlands restoration for the Long Island Sound, as well as other local conservation projects to restore local beaches and protect wildlife. National Estuary Program: Funds state and local programs to promote water quality and wetland restoration. This program serves both the Long Island Sound and Peconic Estuary. National Sea Grant College Program: Sea Grant works with local producers to grow and sustain their business models while connecting them to local resources to share best practices. With imported seafood making up 90% of American seafood consumption, this program will work to help grow Long Island’s local seafood economy. Department of Energy’s Office of Science: Funds laboratories throughout the nation to continue essential scientific research. Provides necessary jobs and research for Brookhaven National Laboratory (BNL) and SUNY Stony Brook. ARPA-E: Further funds BNL and SUNY Stony Brook to continue their cutting edge research into energy, healthcare, and other important areas. Congressman Zeldin said, “There are so many victories for Long Island within this legislation, and the funding provided will go a long way to advance environmental protection within our district. Since taking office in 2015, I have been committed to safeguarding our local environment and natural resources. With our valuable treasures on Long Island comes a great responsibility to protect these great assets.” In the 115th Congress, Rep. Zeldin has been working to secure these victories. In March of this year, Congressman Zeldin held a press conference on the North Fork to advocate for full funding for both the Long Island Sound Program and National Estuary Program, which you can read more about here. He also sent a bipartisan letter to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt, urging him to oppose funding cuts to the Long Sound Program, which you can read here. In April, Congressman Zeldin co-led a bipartisan group of 69 signers in the House to send a letter to the House Appropriations Committee, calling on them to support robust and sustained funding for the DOE’s Office of Science. You can read the letter here. In addition, Rep. Zeldin led a bipartisan group of 95 members of the House asking for full support of the Sea Grant program, which you can read about here.
05.08.2017	Washington, DC - As the untruthful misinformation campaign targeting the American Health Care Act (H.R. 1628) continues, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement today to address some of the highest profile lies: “One of my top priorities in Congress has been to improve healthcare in America, which is why I have always supported the repeal and replace of Obamacare. Obamacare has resulted in higher premiums, higher deductibles, lost doctors, and cancelled policies, among many other challenges. Deductibles are so high, many people now feel like they don’t even have insurance anymore. One-third of the counties in our country only have one option left under the exchange. That’s not choice. That’s a monopoly. Almost everyone agrees that our current system is deeply flawed and that healthcare must be improved. Doing nothing is not an option. Under the American Health Care Act, the individual and employer mandates are being removed, Obamacare’s taxes are almost entirely eliminated (over $800 billion in tax relief), and there will be more choices, competition and affordability than under current law, while continuing to protect Americans with pre-existing conditions and allowing children to stay on their parent’s policy as they can under current law. This is one important step of a three step process to ensure a smooth transition to a better reality for health care in our country. There is so much misinformation being circulated on this bill, especially on social media. Here are some specific facts to set the record straight regarding untruthful claims being made over social media and elsewhere: Is it true that under the current plan Members of Congress will be exempt? No. At the same exact time the American Health Care Act was passed in the House of Representatives, the House also passed legislation (H.R. 2192) to make it crystal clear that Members of Congress would not receive any special treatment whatsoever. Is it true that Members of Congress receive special health care insurance coverage not currently available to the general public? No. Is it true that the American Health Care Act changes the definition of pre-existing conditions? No. Is it true that under the American Health Care Act, 310,000 NY-1 residents with pre-existing conditions will lose their health insurance? Not within a million degrees of accurate in any way, shape or form. Is it true that in New York insurers will be able to charge people more if they have a pre-existing condition? No. New Yorkers with pre-existing conditions cannot be denied health insurance coverage for their pre-existing condition and cannot be charged more for their pre-existing condition. But what if New York asks for a waiver? New York is not asking for a waiver, but even if it did, New Yorkers still cannot be denied health insurance coverage for their pre-existing condition and as long as they maintain continuous coverage without a lapse for more than 63 days then they cannot be charged more either. Even if there is a lapse for more than 63 days, states remain required to protect people with pre-existing conditions to ensure they have access to affordable policies, which comes with financial help from the federal government. It is hysteria to claim that people with pre-existing conditions are not protected even if the protection is a little different than in non-waiver states. Is it true that there was no Congressional Budget Office (CBO) score for the American Health Care Act? No. The CBO has already weighed in on almost this entire bill. Is it true that no one actually read the bill? No. Speaking for myself, I sure did. It's only 138 pages long. Three amendments were added last week, and I read those myself before the vote.
05.08.2017	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released a statement today calling on the City University of New York (CUNY) to revoke its invitation to Linda Sarsour to be the commencement speaker at its School of Public Health graduation ceremony on June 1, 2017. Sarsour is a highly controversial individual to invite for this commencement address due to her extensive history of anti-American, anti-Israel, pro-Sharia Law, and pro-terrorist rhetoric and relationships. She has stated that the United States was built upon the values of “genocide”. Sarsour advocates for Sharia Law and calls for violence against those with whom she disagrees. In addition, she has stated that she was “honored and privileged” to share a stage with Rasmea Odeh, a convicted Islamic terrorist, and has associations with an alleged former Hamas operative as well. Sarsour has also made an outrageous and deeply offensive implication that the United States government is complicit in acts of Islamic terror. Furthermore, Sarsour has condemned Israel, America’s greatest ally and a strategic partner in the Middle East, in a number of statements, and is a stronger supporter of the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement against Israel. Congressman Zeldin said, “The invitation for Linda Sarsour to be the CUNY commencement speaker should be revoked immediately. From her association with known terrorists to her hateful rhetoric like calling Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu ‘a waste of a human being’ and promoting Sharia Law, this invite was in extremely poor taste and must be rescinded. Everyone is entitled to their own opinion, and we should always be promoting freedom of speech on college campuses. However, this is not an optional academic speech where students can easily just not attend. College graduation is a special and very hard earned day for the graduating students and their families and to force all of them to listen to someone so controversial and objectionable shows an extreme lack of concern on the part of the university. I am strongly urging CUNY to reconsider its decision to have Linda Sarsour as its commencement speaker.”
05.05.2017	Washington, DC – The Korea Interdiction and Modernization of Sanctions Act (H.R. 1644) passed the House of Representatives yesterday by a vote of 419 to 1. Rep. Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, supported this bipartisan legislation to modify and increase the President’s authority to impose sanctions on persons who violate certain U.N. Security Council resolutions regarding North Korea, limiting the nation’s ability to develop Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles (ICBMs) and nuclear capability and engage in other bad activities. The bill can be viewed here. Congressman Zeldin said, “As North Korea continues to defiantly develop its weapons program, including ICBMs and nuclear warheads, we must keep all options on the table to deal with this potential threat. The Korea Interdiction and Modernization of Sanctions Act will set in place additional sanctions to ramp up economic pressure on the North Koreans and improve the possibility of multilateral diplomatic engagement. Protecting America’s security at both home and abroad is my top priority as a Representative, and I will continue to work in Congress to ensure all Americans remain safe, secure and free.”
05.04.2017	Patchogue, NY - Regarding outer beach access at Smith Point County Park, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released a statement today to clear up some extremely misleading statements now being circulated by two members of the Suffolk County Legislature and a political candidate serving as an aide to one of those County Legislators. Since taking office in 2015, Congressman Zeldin has been in direct contact with U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, including the Secretary of the Interior personally and directly, and Suffolk County officials in an attempt to address this issue. For many years, Smith Point Beach has been subject to restricted access for off road vehicles and closures due to the presence of protected birds. Last summer, county residents who paid for off-road vehicle permits to access Smith Point beach were unable to use them for up to two months and were not given refunds. The related federal and state conservation laws have been in effect as long as 99 years. These laws grant local authorities permits to move protected birds and the option to formulate more flexible plans for beaches and other public access areas. This is the solution to ensure access at Smith Point and is similar to more flexible plans already in place at Cape Cod National Seashore and other beaches nationwide. These essential points, and the need for Suffolk County to take action have been driven home by Congressman Zeldin for nearly two years now, unfortunately with zero action taken by county officials and members of the county legislature to make the formal request. In September 2016, in the midst of limited access and closures at Smith Point, U.S. Fish and Wildlife officials, in response to advocacy from Congressman Zeldin, met with county officials and offered to work with Suffolk County to revise the conservation plan at Smith Point Beach and to also work with them on the permits necessary to relocate protected birds further downshore, away from vehicle traffic and beachgoers. Multiple meetings and conference calls between Suffolk County Parks officials and senior FWS officials were set up by Congressman Zeldin’s office to ensure a solution was reached. Congressman Zeldin also publicly called on County officials to move forward with implementing the solution, which you can read more about here. In October 2016, as a follow up to the September 2016 meeting, U.S. Fish and Wildlife also sent a letter to the Congressman’s office reaffirming their commitment to work with the county on alternative solutions, even proposing several options for consideration. You can view a copy of the letter here. USFWS October 2016 Letter.pdf At the time, and to date, Suffolk County has not filed any of the paperwork necessary, or taken any other steps, to move forward with this process. This February, after 5 additional months of still zero action from local officials, Congressman Zeldin again called upon the county to take the necessary steps and work with U.S. Fish and Wildlife as the high season rapidly approached. You can view a copy of the letter here. County Executive Bellone Piping Plover Letter Feb 2017.pdf That letter was unanswered and outreach from Congressman Zeldin’s office to various county offices still resulted in zero action taken at the local level. Congressman Zeldin and his team continued to push county officials, following up with additional outreach and unanswered letters in April 2017, which you can view here. Legislator Browning Piping Plover Letter April 2017 .pdf County Executive Bellone Piping Plover Letter April 2017.pdf Congressman Zeldin also spoke directly to the new Secretary of the Interior, Ryan Zinke, about this and other local issues on March 24 of this year and secured the Secretary's commitment to help if the County was willing to work toward a solution. On April 5, 2017, Congressman Zeldin again met with Fish and Wildlife Regional Administrator Wendi Webber, also raising this issue directly with her and securing the continued commitment to solve the issues at Smith Point County Park if the County was willing to work with them. It’s unfortunate that the County has still not taken the simple steps necessary to improve the management of Smith Point County Park and resorted to lies and finger pointing at a hastily called press conference today that still results in zero progress for local residents who hope to enjoy this county park this summer season and have paid the county for off road vehicle permits that may be rended useless because county officials have inexcusably dropped the ball. Lack of flexibility in Suffolk County’s management plan at Smith Point beach means that protected birds aren’t moved further down the beach to areas away from vehicle traffic. There remains a standing offer from U.S. Fish and Wildlife to work on more flexibility at the beach. This unfortunate situation must be prevented this high season and that is why it’s essential that the county move forward to improve the management plan at Smith Point Beach. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has been willing to work with county officials but necessary steps still have not been taken at the local level. Congressman Zeldin said, “Growing up in Shirley, one of my fondest memories was accessing the outer beach at Smith Point County Park with friends and family by vehicle. It’s unfortunate that this has become an annual challenge where wildlife protected under federal law are shutting down access to one of Long Island's greatest treasures. I have always supported the immediate opening of this county operated beach. I believe that protecting wildlife is important, but it must be done in a flexible and reasonable way. The long term solution that is available to ensure this never happens again in the future is for Suffolk County to work with the federal Fish and Wildlife Service to formulate a new conservation plan for these birds that is both flexible and sensible. It is unfortunate that the county has not acted on this offer from the Fish and Wildlife Service. It’s disingenuous and unfair that the county continues to sell expensive off road access permits to this beach without taking necessary steps to ensure access. Additionally, contrary to untruthful claims by county officials, no new federal mandates have been imposed at Smith Point. The birds are protected by federal and state conservation laws - some as old as almost 100 years. This request from the county should be initiated as soon as possible so that the beach can be open and this annual challenge never happens again."UPDATE On June 15, 2017, Congressman Zeldin sent additional letters to County Executive Bellone and Legislator Browning regarding this issue. You can read copies of these letters below:County Executive Bellone - Smith Point letter - June 15 2017.pdf Legislator Browning - Smith Point letter - June 15 2017.pdf
05.04.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) just voted YES on the American Health Care Act (H.R. 1628), which passed the House of Representatives, to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act (ACA), otherwise known as Obamacare. After this vote, the Congressman released the following statement: “Over the past several years, I have heard from many constituents who have shared their thoughts and ideas on how to improve healthcare in America. Their perspectives span across the ideological spectrum and vary greatly. I sincerely appreciate each and every person who has taken the time to express their opinions on this very important topic. Almost everyone agrees that our current system is deeply flawed. For example, just yesterday, Iowa’s last major insurer through the ACA, Medica, threatened to remove itself unless something is done to stabilize the markets. Imagine no option at all for an entire state? None! There are too many other examples of how this law is deeply flawed. We all agree healthcare must be improved and that doing nothing is not an option. We are the greatest country in the world and we can and must do better for all citizens. One of my top priorities in Congress has been to improve healthcare in America. I have always supported the repeal and replace of Obamacare and a smooth transition to a better reality that will improve affordability, access, quality of care and options, while continuing to cover Americans with pre-existing conditions and allowing children to stay on their parent's policy. The American Health Care Act provides relief from billions of dollars of crushing taxes and mandates enacted under the ACA. Additionally, the bill repeals the individual and employer mandates, taxes on prescription and over the counter medications, health insurance premiums and medical devices. This bill would help Americans access healthcare in ways they previously could not, by increasing competition in the marketplace and offering plans that will be tailored to individual needs. The bill provides flexible options for coverage, such as increased access to health savings accounts, which would allow individuals to set aside pre-tax dollars to help cover health care costs. The bill also creates a Patient and State Stability Fund, endowed with billions of dollars, to increase access to necessary services and to help keep costs down. I am also strongly supportive of the Collins-Faso Amendment, also known as the Property Tax Reduction Act, the single greatest act of fiscal relief ever provided to the County of Suffolk and its taxpayers. Shifting the local share of Medicaid costs to the state, this amendment was included in the legislation that passed the House today. There are also many other very positive aspects of this bill. There are so many outright lies attacking this legislation, like the social media campaign absurdly claiming that 310,000 NY-1 residents with pre-existing conditions would lose their health care under the AHCA. That's not within a million degrees of accurate. The amount of outright lies about the AHCA that have been manufactured and echoed by individuals and entities have been insane. The bill protects people with pre-existing conditions, and gives states greater flexibility to lower premiums and stabilize the insurance market. The lies about this bill are being perpetuated by the same people who told us if you liked your plan, you could keep your plan, if you liked your doctor, you could keep your doctor, and that premiums under the ACA would decrease by $2,500 per family. Passage of this bill is an important step in a multi pronged effort to improve health care in our country. There is still much more work ahead to improve healthcare for all Americans in addition to the passage of this bill. The next steps of this process include administrative action to further ensure a smooth transition, as well as additional legislative action, which started with the passage of the Small Business Health Fairness Act (H.R. 1101) and the Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act (H.R. 372), to allow the pooling of policies across state lines and reform current law to increase competition in the health insurance market. There are also other necessary reforms to healthcare that can’t be accomplished through the budget reconciliation process that still should get done: lowering drug costs for patients, providing additional flexibility in Medicaid for states to manage their own programs as effectively as possible, and medical legal reforms. A smooth transition during this period is critical. I will continue to follow all developments on this process closely over the coming months.”
05.03.2017	Washington, DC – The House of Representatives just passed the bipartisan Consolidated Appropriations Act (H.R. 244) to fund the federal government for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2017. Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) voted YES on this budget agreement struck between President Donald Trump and Congress. Just some of the very important highlights of this legislation include: $25 billion in increased defense funding for a necessary improvement to military readiness and national defense. Largest pay raise for our military in 6 years. $277 million for the FBI to increase operations to combat terrorism, espionage, and improve cybersecurity efforts. $1.5 billion in increased funding for border security to strengthen infrastructure and technology, and improve Border Patrol hiring initiatives. $10.5 billion for the U.S. Coast Guard, a $344 million increase to protect our maritime border and national security on our coast line. $8 million in funding for the Long Island Sound Program, an increase of $4 million in funding, $26.7 million in funding for the National Estuary Program, and $72.5 million in funding for Sea Grant. Essential funding for the Department of Energy’s Office of Science and ARPA-E program, which will be funded at $5.3 billion and $306 million (a $15 million increase), respectively; this funding provides necessary jobs and research for Brookhaven National Laboratory, SUNY Stony Brook and other scientific research in NY-1. $3.6 billion in funding towards mental health and the implementation of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, or CARA, to increase treatment and recovery services for those suffering. This includes a $150 million increase in funding from last year for prevention and treatment programs for opioid abuse, as well as $500 million in funding authorized by the 21st Century Cures Act, which provides a total increase of $650 million for initiatives to address the opioid crisis. $34 billion in funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH), which is an increase of $2 billion, for the scientific research of diseases. The Maximum Pell Grant award is increased to $5,920, and also contains a provision which restores year round Pell grants. Maintains important caps on government spending to ensure fiscal responsibility. Congressman Zeldin said, “Many important bipartisan priorities have been secured for our community, state and nation. Working with President Trump and my colleagues in Congress, this agreement supports our great military, and strengthens our border security and other homeland defense needs, including the largest increase to border security technologies and improvements in more than a decade. I'm pleased to see that we are no longer tying needs for defense spending with domestic discretionary spending, and that more conservative minded appropriation bills are finally and importantly being passed. In a district surrounded almost completely by water, this budget agreement also means strengthening the Coast Guard and defending our maritime borders. On Long Island, critical environment and scientific programs will receive the funding needed to safeguard our natural treasures and allow our community to remain a leader in the scientific community and provide our district with high-paying research and private sector jobs. Support will also be provided to combat the heroin and opioid abuse epidemic, which is sweeping across Long Island and the rest of our country. There are so many positive wins in this budget agreement, which is why I supported its passage. While the bill would have looked a little differently if I had drafted it all myself, I understand well that legislating is about compromise. Additionally, the current 60 vote threshold still required for now in the United States Senate adds an additional dynamic that cannot be ignored when setting expectations. Advocating for important funding that impacts the First Congressional District will always be a top priority. Protecting our national defense, funding our government, and fulfilling our constitutional responsibilities must always be our highest priority. These votes will probably never be unanimous with defectors on both sides of the aisle, and at times, that will include me, but ultimately supporting this particular legislation’s passage really was a no brainer. I look forward to working with the President and my colleagues in Congress on so many other priorities that must be fulfilled to advocate on behalf of the greatest congressional district in America in the greatest nation in the world.”
05.02.2017	Washington, DC - On Monday, May 1, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) gave students from the State University of New York at Albany, of which Rep. Zeldin is an alumnus, an evening tour of the Capitol building in Washington D.C. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with the students on the Speaker’s Balcony, which overlooks the National Mall, including the Washington Monument.
05.01.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released a statement today in support of President Donald Trump’s recent Executive Order creating an “Office of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection at VA.” This Executive Order will safeguard whistleblowers who report unacceptable practices or unlawful conduct by employees within the VA, while improving accountability within the Department. For years, there have been countless reports of objectionable behavior in several VA facilities. Additionally, barriers have prevented the agency from removing problematic employees and officials, resulting in poor treatment for many veterans. This office will work closely with Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin to identify these barriers, while advising him to investigate, and remove, if necessary, any employee or official within the Department who is underperforming or otherwise acting in a manner that warrants disciplinary action. Further measures will also be introduced to improve the VA, including a task force to conduct an internal review on the waste and fraud which have plagued the Department, which has been preventing the effective and efficient use of resources. Congressman Zeldin said, “Establishing an Office of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection at the VA will help improve veterans’ health care at the VA facility in Northport and all facilities across the country, by increasing accountability within the VA system. With the creation of this new office, employees and patients will have a new outlet to address their concerns with any substandard care. This Executive Order will also help hold poor performing employees accountable. While I believe that 99% of VA employees genuinely care about the work they do and want to help veterans, we must ensure that the other 1% of those who are not acting in the best interest of veterans are held accountable. I support President Trump’s new Executive Order.” Earlier this year, Congressman Zeldin voted for the VA Accountability First Act of 2017 (H.R. 1259), which passed the House on March 16, 2017.
05.01.2017	Washington, DC – On Friday, April 28, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted his third annual art reception at Artspace in Patchogue, where he announced Enru Wang, a high school student at Smithtown Christian School, as the 2017 winner of the Congressional Art Competition for the First Congressional District: “The Artistic Discovery Contest.” In attendance at the event were the fifteen finalists, their art teachers and families, Artspace curator Tracy Todd Hunter, and local artists who served as judges. The House of Representatives hosts a nationwide high school art competition every spring to raise awareness of the importance of art programs in our schools, and to recognize and celebrate the creativity and diversity of our art students. The winning artwork for each congressional district is displayed in the United States Capitol for one year. The fifteen finalists include: Giulliana Lorenzo, Bellport High School, Lynda Hernandez, East Hampton High School, Kathleen McGovern, East Hampton High School, Jonathan Realmuto, East Hampton High School, Janie Oglesby, Longwood High School, Syriah Scott, Longwood High School, Gabriella Hassildine, Mattituck High School, Lori Alouidor, Smithtown Christian School, Donna Cheridor, Smithtown Christian School, Jenna Ciarfello, Smithtown Christian School, Samantha Cubas, Smithtown Christian School, Nadya DaRocha, Smithtown Christian School, Alexandra Pepper, Smithtown Christian School, Austin Sala, Smithtown Christian School, and Enru Wang, Smithtown Christian School. The winner and a guest will receive a flight to Washington, DC to see their artwork on display in the U.S. Capitol building courtesy of Southwest Airlines. Congressman Zeldin said, “Congratulations to Enru Wang, the artist of ‘It’s What’s Inside,’ and first place winner of the 2017 Congressional Art Competition for the First Congressional District. I would also like to thank and congratulate all of the high school students in the First Congressional District and around the country who participated in this year’s art competition. The Congressional Art Competition has been hosted by the House of Representatives since 1982, and nearly one million students have participated in it to date. All of the artwork that was submitted to my office this year was creative and inspiring, and there is no shortage of talent, creativity or enthusiasm in our high school artists’ work. All 15 finalists demonstrated incredible talent, which made choosing this year’s winner a difficult decision for our judges. It was an honor to host a reception to recognize these artists, and I look forward to welcoming Enru Wang and her family to Washington, DC to view her artwork in the United States Capitol.”
05.01.2017	Op-ed Written by Congressman Lee Zeldin (NY-01) One of the greatest privileges of serving in Congress is getting to meet so many amazing constituents remarkably interested in engaging in productive, substantive exchanges of ideas in order to improve the direction of our island, state and nation. I would like to thank everyone who came out to my three recent Town Halls in Riverhead, Farmingville, and Smithtown, as well as Mobile Office Hours in Peconic. These events were important opportunities to meet with many NY-1 constituents and answer their questions. It was an honor to see so many great people from our district not only take time out of their busy Sunday to attend the forums, but also come to these events ready and prepared with inquiries on the issues they were most passionate about. Whether it was specific concerns regarding veterans’ care at the Northport VA, or the importance of Department of Energy funding to carry out important science missions in our district, so many attended with a commitment to engage in productive, substantive dialogue. In addition to these recent events, I have also participated in many other great outreach efforts in 2017, including a Facebook Live Session, a Telephone Town Hall, and another Mobile Office Hours at the Hagerman Fire Department. My days have been filled with so many other excellent one on one and small group meetings with constituents, and these are only the beginning of the events we have planned for this year. As your Congressman, one of my absolute top priorities is ensuring that your voice is heard in Washington. You have placed your trust in me to represent you in front of the nation, and with that honor comes the responsibility of taking every single opinion into consideration. Before casting a vote, signing onto a bill, advocating for funding for a specific program, or whatever it may be, I always take into consideration the concerns that have been passed on to me to ensure that I can work in the absolute best interest of our district. I want to know your views on the critical topics we face as Americans because it is the best way to represent you. I cannot promise that I am always going to see eye to eye with every constituent. Like every American, I possess my own personal views on what I think are the best ways to advance our community, state, and nation. No single person within our district is going to always agree with me on every single issue, and it should never be that way. One of the truly amazing things about our nation is not only that we are granted the freedom to dissent, but the fact that healthy, productive, substantive debate is encouraged. What I can promise is that I will never stop working to best serve this district, and that I am willing to work with absolutely anyone from across the ideological spectrum on any issue, whether it’s small and local or large scale. At the end of the day, we are all members of NY-1, the greatest Congressional District in America, and our ultimate goal is to move our interests forward and tackle the shared obstacles we face. Democrat or Republican, liberal or conservative, there are so many areas where we can find common ground. While there may not always be an easy solution to these challenges, I truly believe that when we work as one, we’re unbeatable. Congressman Lee Zeldin, member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and House Financial Services Committee, represents the First Congressional District of New York.
04.28.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, co-led a letter with House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (R, CA-39), House Foreign Affairs Committee Ranking Member Eliot Engel (D, NY-16), House Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee Chair Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R, FL-27) and House Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee Ranking Member Ted Deutch (D, FL-22), to Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan to the United States of America, Her Excellency Dina Kawar, regarding the case of Ahlam Ahmad Al-Tamimi, a Jordanian citizen involved in terrorist acts. The full text of Congressman Zeldin’s letter is below and available online here: Rep. Zeldin Co-Leads Letter to Ambassador of Jordan Re Ahlam Ahmad Al-Tamimi.pdf April 28, 2017 Her Excellency Dina Kawar Ambassador of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan to the United States of America Embassy of Jordan 3504 International Drive, Northwest Washington, D.C. 20008 Dear Ambassador Kawar, We write today to respectfully request a meeting at your earliest convenience regarding the case of Ahlam Ahmad Al-Tamimi, a Jordanian citizen well-known to the United States Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). As you are likely aware, Al Tamimi was a primary accomplice in the August 9, 2001 suicide bomb attack at a Sbarro pizza restaurant in Jerusalem that killed 15 people, including two United States nationals. Al-Tamimi pled guilty in an Israeli court in 2003 to multiple counts of murder arising from the attack and was sentenced to 16 life terms of incarceration. Al-Tamimi served only eight years of the sentence before being released on or about October 28, 2011, as part of a prisoner exchange between the government of Israel and Hamas. On March 14, 2017, the United States Department of Justice unsealed a criminal complaint charging Al-Tamimi with conspiring to use a weapon of mass destruction against U.S. nationals outside the U.S., resulting in death. Al-Tamimi was also added to the FBI’s Most Wanted Terrorist list, and since the United States and Jordan do not have an extradition treaty in force, we would like to discuss how we can assist in resolving the case. Jordan is a key contributor to the U.S.-led coalition to counter the Islamic State and a valued friend. We appreciate the relationship between our two nations and look forward to our continued work together. Sincerely, Lee Zeldin, Member of Congress Ed Royce, Member of Congress Eliot Engel, Member of Congress Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Member of Congress Ted Deutch, Member of Congress
04.28.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Terrorism and Illicit Finance Subcommittee, just released the following statement on United States Attorney General Jeff Session’s visit to Central Islip today: “I thank Attorney General Sessions for coming to Long Island today to address firsthand the rise in gang violence in our community. Just a few weeks ago, four men, two of whom were from the First Congressional District, were senselessly and tragically murdered by MS-13, using machetes. We must address the rise of gang violence on Long Island and throughout our country that is ruining lives, causing irreparable harm to families, and devastating our local communities. It is perfectly acceptable to have differences; everyone is entitled to their own opinion. However, as one community, we should all be coming together and providing a warm welcome to AG Sessions, instead of lining the streets to oppose this visit, especially for this visit's purpose. AG Sessions is visiting our community, because he wants to help us eliminate the threats posed by MS-13 and other gang activity. Failure is not an option. We need an all hands on deck approach from the federal, state and local government, as well as from organizations and groups within the local community, involving all who care to play a much needed leadership role to combat this crisis.” Yesterday, Congressman Zeldin attended a subcommittee hearing entitled “Safeguarding the Financial System from Terrorist Financing,” where Mr. Jamal El-Hindi testified, the Acting Director of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) at the U.S. Department of the Treasury. During the hearing, Congressman Zeldin called on FinCEN to get more directly involved combating the rise in gang violence in Suffolk County, including the rise of brutal acts of violence from groups like MS-13 and other Central American gangs. You can read more here.
04.27.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Terrorism and Illicit Finance Subcommittee, attended a subcommittee hearing today entitled “Safeguarding the Financial System from Terrorist Financing,” where Mr. Jamal El-Hindi testified, the Acting Director of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) at the U.S. Department of the Treasury. During the hearing, Congressman Zeldin called on FinCEN to get more directly involved combating the rise in gang violence in Suffolk County, including the rise of brutal acts of violence from groups like MS-13 and other Central American gangs. You can view Congressman Zeldin’s exchange with Mr. El-Hindi here. Congressman Zeldin said, “The issue of illicit financing and money laundering is hitting home in the most personal and tragic way in Suffolk County where we’ve seen ongoing violence perpetrated by MS-13 and other Central American gangs taking innocent lives and threatening the safety of our schools. Money laundering is a key tool for these violent criminal organizations that are tearing apart peaceful communities on Long Island and nationwide. It allows them to hide their drug trafficking revenue and transfer it illicitly across the border. It is how they buy weapons and fuels the growth of their dangerous criminal enterprises. Earlier this month, we saw the senseless and tragic murders of four young men, which only further cemented our need to solve the gang violence crisis on Long Island and nationwide. Two of the victims of these murders perpetrated by MS-13, Justin Llivicura and Jorge Tigre, were residents of New York’s First Congressional District. Now more than ever, we need coordination on all fronts so that our local law enforcement on the front lines can respond to this grave threat, working with other state and federal agencies. We must fight this battle on all fronts, including finances. I look forward to working with the U.S. Treasury Department and others at all levels of government to solve this crisis once and for all.”
04.27.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) and Rep. Grace Meng (D, NY-6) introduced a bipartisan resolution in the House of Representatives this week, to recognize Israeli-American heritage and the contributions of the Israeli American community. Introduction of this resolution is in anticipation of Jewish American Heritage Month, which is celebrated each May, and Israeli Independence Day, which will be celebrated on May 2nd this year. A copy of the resolution can be viewed here. Rep. Zeldin said, “I am proud to introduce this bipartisan resolution in the House with Rep. Meng. There are currently up to 800,000 Israeli-Americans in the United States who have a critical role in our society, specifically our country’s economy, culture and national security. Israeli Americans contribute in many ways that create jobs and help grow our economy, while strengthening our nation’s national security to protect America’s interests at home and abroad. I encourage all of my House colleagues to support this resolution.” Rep. Meng said, “Israeli Americans have made outstanding and lasting contributions to many facets of American society. From creating technological advancements that we use every day, to starting businesses that employ tens of thousands of Americans, the Israeli American community continues to thrive, thereby strengthening our economy. As the representative of many hardworking Israeli Americans, I'm proud to help introduce this important resolution." “The Israeli-American Coalition for Action is grateful to Reps. Zeldin and Meng for leading this important effort in Congress to recognize the Israeli-American Community’s unique and wide-ranging contributions to the United States,” Israeli-American Council CEO Shoham Nicolet said. "From high-tech to Hollywood, from agriculture to clean energy, Israeli-Americans are making their mark in the U.S. to strengthen our country’s security, economy, and future."
04.27.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced today that he has just reintroduced his bipartisan bill in the House of Representatives to prevent the sale of Plum Island by the federal government to the highest bidder: The Plum Island Preservation Act (H.R. 2182). Congressman Zeldin’s bill will commission the Government Accountability Office, in consultation with the Department of Homeland Security, which currently owns the island, to formulate a comprehensive plan for the future of the island. This legislation requires the plan focus on conservation, education, and research and include alternative uses for the island including a transfer of ownership to another federal agency, the state or local government, a nonprofit, or a combination thereof. Allowing for continued research, public access and permanent preservation of the island, Congressman Zeldin’s bill, H.R. 2182, will suspend laws passed in 2008 and 2011 that mandated the public sale of Plum Island by the federal government to the highest bidder. Congressman Zeldin said, “In Congress, one of my highest local priorities has been to protect Plum Island, one of our greatest local treasures in the First Congressional District. Plum Island is beloved by our local community because it is a critical cultural, historical, and natural resource. With 90% of the land on Plum Island sheltered from development, Plum Island offers Long Island a diverse wildlife and ecosystem and a critical habitat for migratory birds, marine mammals, and rare plants. Plum Island is also an essential cultural and historical resource as well, with recorded history dating back to the 1700s. The current law, which mandates the sale of the island to the highest bidder, is the wrong path forward, because it does not provide for public access and permanent preservation of the island, or the continued use of the research infrastructure. The state of the art research facility at Plum Island must not go to waste—and preserving this island’s natural beauty while maintaining a research mission will continue to provide important economic and environmental benefits to Long Island. I am proud to reintroduce legislation to protect Plum Island, the Plum Island Preservation Act.” In the 114th Congress, Congressman Zeldin’s bipartisan bill to protect Plum Island (H.R. 1887) passed the House of Representatives on May 16, 2016. Congressman Zeldin’s amendment to the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act of 2017 (H.R. 5485), which would prohibit any of the funding within the appropriations bill to be used to market or sell Plum Island, also passed the House of Representatives on July 7, 2016.
04.27.2017	Washington, DC - On Wednesday, April 26, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with the Long Island Sound Citizens Advisory Committee in Washington D.C. The Long Island Sound Citizens Advisory Committee is a group of over 35 organizations, business interests, and representatives from local governments which are dedicated to protecting the Long Island Sound. During the meeting, Congressman Zeldin discussed his work to safeguard the Sound as co-chair of the bipartisan Long Island Sound Caucus, alongside fellow co-chair Rep. Rosa DeLauro (D, CT-3) and Rep. Tom Suozzi (D, NY-3). Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, center left, with members of the committee and Reps. DeLauro, center, and Suozzi, center right.
04.26.2017	Smithtown, NY - On Tuesday, April 25, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke to a group of second through fifth grade students at the Smithtown Christian School, in Smithtown, NY. During the visit, Congressman Zeldin discussed his work in Congress and the legislative process, and was able to answer many questions from the students. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, greeting the students.
04.25.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, released the following statement in response to a new Politico Investigative report with disturbing new details about the Obama administration's prisoner exchange with Iran: “Once again we are reminded of how brutally incompetent President Obama's foreign policy was, especially as it related to Iran. I can't say that I am surprised in the least by these most recent findings of secrecy, lacking transparency, and utter incompetency. The Obama administration sought to appease the Iranians at any and all cost. From a terribly weak kneed response to the Green Revolution of 2009, to a horribly flawed Iran Nuclear Deal, poorly decided ransom payment, and embarrassing handling of the disgraceful detention of 10 U.S. Navy Sailors, the legacy of the Obama administration's Iran policy is one that is riddled with lessons learned for future Presidents of a path that should never be repeated. The United States is a nation that is not even close to equals with Iran. We are the greatest nation in the world and we must reposition our posture from one of weakness to one of strength. That is all that this adversary respects. As Iran continues to grow into a regional powerhouse due to a terribly flawed approach on our part in recent years, the best way to prevent war, protect our national security and that of our allies, and push back against all of Iran's many other bad activities, is to reestablish our leverage with sanctions and other tools that would force the Iranians back to the table. We are propping up the wrong regime right now and the consequences we face and those of our allies are grave, but fortunately can be avoided.”
04.24.2017	Mt. Sinai, NY - On Saturday, April 22, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Hope Walk for Addiction at Cedar Beach in Mt. Sinai, NY. The Hope Walk for Addiction is a rally to spread awareness about the heroin and opioid epidemic, and was founded by Bill Reitzig and his family in honor of their son, Billy, who passed away from a drug overdose. Pictured above, from left to right, are Mr. Reitzig; his mother, Carole; Congressman Zeldin; Jay Oliver of LI News Radio; Karandeep Singh, Long Island Council on Alcoholism & Drug Dependence (LICADD) student intern, Steve Chassman, LICADD Executive Director; and Michael McGarry, LICADD student intern.
04.24.2017	Riverhead, NY - On Saturday, April 22, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Kiwanis Club of Greater Riverhead’s Breakfast of Stars at the Birchwood of Polish Town in Riverhead, NY. The Breakfast of Stars is an annual event which celebrates heroes within the community. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, center, with NYPD Officers Peter Cybulski, left, and Hameed Armani, right. These two officers were appropriately hailed as heroes last year when, after a suspected explosive was thrown into their car, they selflessly drove the vehicle away from the public in Times Square as opposed to vacating their vehicle in place.
04.23.2017	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) participated in three Town Hall events across the First Congressional District. The first Community Forum was hosted by Suffolk County Community College at their Riverhead Campus, and moderated by Suffolk County Comptroller John Kennedy. The second Community Forum was hosted by LI News Radio and the Portuguese American Center, held at the Portuguese American Center in Farmingville, and moderated by Jay Oliver from LI News Radio. The third Town Hall was hosted by Catholics for Freedom of Religion and held at St. Patrick’s Church in Smithtown. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above at the Riverhead event Congressman Zeldin is pictured above at the Farmingville event Congressman Zeldin is pictured above at the Smithtown event Congressman Zeldin said, “It was such a pleasure to meet with so many great constituents at today’s Town Halls to hear concerns and answer questions. At the Community Forums, we were able to cover a breadth of very important issues, including healthcare, the environment, foreign policy, economic growth, several local issues, and so much more. My days have been filled with great meetings with so many constituents who have requested meetings, which have spanned the ideological spectrum. I am willing to work with absolutely anyone to move our country forward, no matter what your ideological background is, and I welcome any opportunity to engage in substantive, productive dialogue. If we are to move our nation forward, it is so important that we unite to find common ground.” Congressman Zeldin’s days are nearly always completely packed with one on one and small group meetings with constituents, including many with individuals who have participated in protests. Some of his 2017 outreach activities have also included Mobile Office Hours, TeleTown Halls, a Facebook Live session, and much more. Just this past Friday, Congressman Zeldin hosted Mobile Office hours in Peconic where he met with several dozen more constituents.
04.22.2017	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced that $1,580,000 in federal funding has been awarded to the Town of Brookhaven for the construction of new sidewalks and curbs along Old Town Road, in Port Jefferson Station and Coram, including bicycle and pedestrian access, and Americans with Disabilities Act regulated sidewalks, among other projects. The $1.58 million in federal funding represents 80% of the total cost of the project. Congressman Zeldin said, “This is key funding to improve walkability and bicycle access in the Town of Brookhaven. The $1,580,000 will go a long way in improving the sidewalks and bridges along Old Town Road in Port Jefferson Station and Coram, which are in desperate need of repair. Last Congress, I proudly helped lead the bipartisan effort to pass the highway bill, which secured funding for the Surface Transportation Block Grant (STBG). Our transportation and infrastructure are essential to the Long Island economy, way of life and safety, and I will continue working to ensure that states and local governments have the flexibility and resources necessary to strengthen our infrastructure and improve transportation safety, job creation, and our overall economy and quality of life.” New York State Senator Ken LaValle said, “It’s critically important that we continue to invest in infrastructure to maintain the quality of life in our Towns. With the new construction of over a mile of curbing and over 2 miles of sidewalks, pedestrians, bicyclists and the disabled will have safer routes to travel. I am pleased that by working together, the federal and state governments are continuing to improve Brookhaven’s infrastructure.” New York State Senator Tom Croci said, “These vital funds will not only help to improve the deteriorating infrastructure around the Town of Brookhaven, making it safer for vehicular and pedestrian traffic, but will also strengthen the economy and support job creation. I would like to commend Congressman Zeldin for fighting for this much needed funding for Brookhaven. It is leadership and collaboration like this that helps our communities thrive and keeps our neighborhoods safe.” Assemblyman Steve Englebright said, "Old Town Road connects the communities of Port Jefferson Station and Coram and both hamlets will soon become more pedestrian and bike friendly with the construction of new sidewalks as well as bicycle access along this route. With funding secured by Congressman Zeldin, the Town of Brookhaven will build walkability and bicycle lanes into our local community and encourage healthy and carbon-free transportation alternatives to driving around town." Brookhaven Town Supervisor Ed Romaine said, “I want to thank Congressman Zeldin for his commitment to Brookhaven Town and his leadership in securing the funding to make our roads safer and more accessible to everyone. Infrastructure keeps the Town moving forward and upgrading it improves our quality of life and creates jobs that drive the local economy. Congressman Zeldin has always been a strong advocate for the people of the First District, and I look forward to working with him to help find more ways to make Brookhaven a better place to live and work.” Brookhaven Superintendent of Highways Daniel P. Losquadro said, “I’d like to thank our leaders on all levels of government, local, state, and federal, for awarding the Brookhaven Highway Department $1,580,000 for the construction of new sidewalks and curbs along Old Town Road from Route 347 in Port Jefferson Station to Route 112 in Coram, especially Congressman Zeldin and Governor Cuomo. As we work to improve our infrastructure, the construction of bicycle paths and ADA-compliant, accessible sidewalks is crucial in ensuring the safety of our roadways for motorists and pedestrians.”
04.21.2017	Peconic, NY - On Friday, April 21, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted Mobile Office Hours at the Peconic Lane Community Center in Peconic, NY. 72 NY-1 residents were able to meet with the Congressman or a staff member during the Mobile Office Hours to discuss a variety of concerns on important issues, including the environment, immigration, foreign affairs, and much more. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, discussing a disability claim with a NY-1 veteran.
04.21.2017	Riverhead, NY - On Friday, April 21, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited Jedediah Hawkins Inn in Riverhead, NY. The Inn was originally built by Captain Jedediah Hawkins as a home in 1863, and is now a hotel. During the visit, Congressman Zeldin discussed the history of the location and the hotel’s operations with the hotel’s owner, Lia Polities. Pictured above, from left to right, are Ms. Polities, Congressman Zeldin, and Steve Malito, in front of a portrait of Captain Hawkins.
04.20.2017	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement today following two funeral services that just took place for victims of last weekend’s murder of four young men by the MS-13 gang. Two of the victims, Justin Llivicura (East Patchogue, New York) and Jorge Tigre (Bellport, New York), were residents of the First Congressional District. Congressman Zeldin said, “Last weekend’s senseless and tragic murders only further cement our need to address the rise of gang violence on Long Island and throughout our country. The rise of gang activity is ruining lives, causing irreparable harm to families, and devastating our local communities. Recruitment is starting at shockingly early ages and driving young children down a very dangerous path in life. Our schools, churches, community groups, law enforcement, and more all play a critical role in further helping to tackle this massive challenge. Failure is not an option. From the enforcement of our immigration laws, international efforts to combat various related criminal activity, and the need to educate and rehabilitate as necessary and appropriate, this must be an all hands on deck mission involving all who care to play a much needed leadership role. I would like to thank all of the brave men and women who have already stepped up for this cause to try to make our neighborhoods safer and improve our quality of life.”
04.17.2017	We need to send a powerful message to the world that there are lines which can never be crossed. On the night of April 6, 2017, the Syrian government used chemical weapons in a barbaric attack against its own people, resulting in the murder of dozens of Syrian men, women, and children. A violation of international law and a grievous crime against humanity, we as a nation cannot stand idly by witnessing such horrific acts of cruelty against civilians who want nothing but a peaceful life. These chemical weapons should have already been destroyed, and Syrian President Bashar al-Assad must be held responsible and accountable. I strongly applaud the decision of the Trump Administration to launch a missile strike in response to these horrible crimes. This strike, which targeted infrastructure and not people, sends a forceful message that the United States has no tolerance for such actions. In the past, complacency and inaction have proven to be very costly, and we must be smarter and more effective with our efforts. An essential aspect of this is broadening our coalition of support; only then can we turn the tide in a country that is sadly in complete chaos, culminating in inhumane chemical warfare against innocent lives. The Syrian people deserve a new chapter which promises to change direction in favor of stability and peace. Assad’s use of chemical weapons against his own people was a cowardly and shameful tactic which only reinforces the reality that the Syrian people will never know peace unless something is done to eliminate this threat. President Trump’s decision to launch this missile strike was a demonstration to foreign governments that sponsoring horrific acts of terror, such as the April 6th chemical attack in Syria, comes with consequences. However, we must be smart about the kind of military strategy we employ. We are blessed to have the finest men and women in uniform serving the most amazing and talented military this world has ever seen. As such, when they are sent into harm’s way, they must be sent with a clear strategy to win or not be sent at all. I am not currently aware of any request for additional troops in Syria; however, if this is the direction the administration chooses to take, it is so important that any request receive careful examination which takes all factors into consideration to ensure it is the wisest possible option. There is a big difference between a request for a small amount of our best of the best of the best, such as our Navy Seals, Delta Force, Green Berets, Army Rangers, or Marines, to carry out an important mission that requires a very limited amount of personnel for a high value target, whether it’s individuals, equipment, or intelligence. On the other hand, sending tens of thousands of American troops in to occupy Syrian territory would definitely not be the right answer. I have long believed that protecting America’s security at home and abroad and keeping our nation safe from any threat must always be our first priority. A destabilized Syria has directly contributed to the rise of ISIS and other regional and global threats; helping secure stability for their nation is an integral part of establishing peace for ours. We must pursue a stronger, more consistent foreign policy which strengthens our relationships with our allies and treats our adversaries as our adversaries. Eradicating the threat of terror wherever it may arise around the world is essential in securing the United States and rest of the free world. We must always do all in our power to keep our people safe, secure, and free. Congressman Lee Zeldin, member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, represents the First Congressional District of New York.
04.14.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) sent a follow-up letter to Dr. David Shulkin, Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), regarding the replacement of Northport VAMC’s Director, Mr. Phil Moschitta, who retired effective April 1, 2017. Last month, on March 6, 2017, Congressman Zeldin sent a letter to Dr. Shulkin calling for a speedy replacement of Mr. Moschitta. Congressman Zeldin requested that the VA recruit a new facility director from outside the Northport VAMC system. For more information, click here. On March 22, 2017, the VA responded to the Congressman in writing, which can be viewed here. 03.22.17_Response letter re Medical Center Director vacancy at the Northport VAMC.pdf The full text of Congressman Zeldin’s follow up letter is below and available online here. Northport Letter.pdf The Honorable Dr. David Shulkin Secretary U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20420 Dear Secretary Shulkin, Thank you for your response of March 22, 2017. However, I believe it does not go far enough in addressing the most pressing issues that I brought up in my initial letter. I promised the veterans of my congressional district that I would make their needs a priority and they are holding me to that promise by demanding accountability for our VA medical center. Throughout the years, I have heard high praise from many veterans across Long Island who have had nothing but a very positive experience at the Northport VAMC; however, there have been specific and very serious allegations that have been made to my office, which cannot be ignored. Since we began hearing from patients and employees in 2015, we have seen very little effort to actually address and fix the recurring issues at Northport VAMC. The facility infrastructure problems are apparent. House Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Phil Roe expressed wide ranging concerns about management of the facilities in his April 6, 2017 letter, and I am committed to continuing to work with him to investigate the root causes of these problems. Disappointingly, when those facility issues affect patient care and employee welfare, communication from the VA has not been timely. As of today, my office has received no update to a March 1, 2017 e-mail detailing the failure of two cooling towers on February 24, 2017 that provided chilled-air to critical areas. This delay and subsequent lack of follow-up causes me to be concerned about a growing lack of transparency between the medical center, patients, staff and local congressional offices. My office receives ongoing reports of substandard working conditions, from environmental hazards to disrespectful treatment by supervisors and service heads. We continually hear allegations of poor air quality which, reportedly, resulted in employees becoming sick or leaving Northport altogether to protect their health. Verbal abuse, disparaging remarks about race, sexual identity and disability and retaliation, including threats and damage to property, have also been documented by my office. These continue to be the types of issues my office fields on a regular basis. My hope would be that the new Northport VAMC administration would come with fresh ideas about how best to deal with these pervasive problems. The "minimum qualifications" are simply not good enough to address the myriad needs there. You mentioned in your letter that one nominee would be selected for each medical center from the best-qualified candidates interviewed. Would you please provide more details about the selection process for a Director-level role? Is there a minimum required time of service in a similar managerial-type role? Who ultimately is responsible for selecting the final candidate? While experience is certainly an important characteristic for the next medical center administration, transparency, accountability and communication are very much as well. I would hope that the next Director of Northport VAMC would have the willingness to make an honest assessment of the center’s deficiencies and be given the flexibility to take corrective action including terminating problem employees and putting an end to the alleged culture of intimidation and retaliation. To that end, I would suggest that the very subjects in this letter are brought up at some point before a final selection is made to ensure that we are getting an administrator who is ready to take on these challenges and who is equipped with information and support from all stakeholders in order to be successful from day one. If there are any additional questions regarding this matter, please contact my aide, Cleveland Johnson, at (631) 289-1097 or Cleveland.Johnson@mail.house.gov. Sincerely, Lee Zeldin Member of Congress
04.13.2017	Shoreham, NY - On Thursday, April 13, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) toured the Tesla Science Center in Shoreham, NY. This property was once used by inventor and scientist Nikola Tesla to conduct groundbreaking experiments, and is now in the process of becoming a science museum. During the visit, Congressman Zeldin toured the facilities and was presented with the Center’s plan for the future. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, center, discussing these plans with Marc Alessi, left, and Jane Alcorn, right.
04.13.2017	East Hampton, NY - On Wednesday, April 12, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended a community roundtable to address the growing drug crisis on the East End of Long Island. The roundtable was hosted by Vida Abundante New York congregation in East Hampton, and was attended by several religious and community leaders, including East Hampton Town Councilwoman Sylvia Overby. At the roundtable, Congressman Zeldin discussed his work in Congress to combat heroin and opioid abuse, including his support of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, or CARA, which will provide billions of dollars in federal funding for treatment, enforcement, and education. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, discussing these concerns during the roundtable.
04.11.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) today announced that the Stony Brook University WTC Wellness Program has received $60 Million in federal funding from the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The funding will be used to improve operations within the program, which offers essential screening services and treatment for 9/11 first responders. Congressman Zeldin said, “I am proud to announce that this vital Stony Brook program has received $60 million in federal funding. This five year federal grant will go a long way in ensuring our 9/11 first responders receive the essential care and services they need and rightly deserve. We can never do enough to support these American heroes, who selflessly risked their lives at such an important time in our nation's history. This grant is an essential way to remember and honor the brave sacrifices made in the aftermath of the attack on our nation." “This award is a remarkable commitment by NIOSH that enables us to help 911 responders who have multiple healthcare needs at every level, from their physical and mental health problems to monitoring the long-term effects yet to surface from exposures at ground zero,” said Dr. Benjamin Luft, MD, Director and Principal Investigator of the WTC Wellness Program. “I appreciate the confidence that the federal agencies and legislators have in our program, and that they continue to support our work to care for these patients who selflessly gave of themselves at the time of the 911 attacks and aftermath.” “Stony Brook’s WTC Wellness Program has helped turn the tragedy of 911 for our courageous responders into a beacon of hope with healthcare experts and resources that make a real difference in their lives and well-being,” said Samuel L. Stanley Jr., MD, President of Stony Brook University. “This transformational grant will help to expand services for this important patient population and is a testament to the program’s long-term commitment and impact in caring for them.” “Stony Brook Medicine is built on the principle that a collaborative and multidisciplinary approach provides the best healthcare, which enables us to deliver care for our patients at the highest level of quality, and to make the greatest possible impact on our region,” said Kenneth Kaushansky, MD, Senior Vice President for the Health Sciences, and Dean of the School of Medicine. “The WTC Wellness Program is a shining example of just how important the collaborative and innovative work of our healthcare specialists can be, and this grant will help them reach higher levels in caring for 911 responders.”
04.10.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released a new House Veterans Affairs Committee letter from Committee Chairman Phil Roe (R, TN-1), to the Interim Director of the Northport VA Medical Center (VAMC), Vincent Immiti, regarding the troubling state of affairs at the Northport facility. You can view a copy of the letter here: DPR letter to Immiti re Northport Facility Deterioration.pdf Congressman Zeldin said, “I have heard high praise from many veterans across Long Island over the years, who have had nothing but a very positive experience at the Northport VAMC. However, I cannot ignore the rise in specific and very serious allegations that have been made to my office in recent years. As Chairman Roe mentioned in his letter to the Northport VA, the deteriorating facilities are very concerning and alarming. The Chairman outlines specific issues regarding capital improvement, budgets, and maintenance needs. My office has made repeated attempts to engage Northport in moving their priorities up on the Department’s list, but the projects Northport VA have identified barely address the overall construction and maintenance issues that currently exist, and the fact remains that several of the ongoing requests have seen little to no progress from the Department. Northport VA has been critically important to meet the healthcare needs of many in our veteran community. Significant action must be taken to ensure Northport VA is only providing the highest quality of care for Long Island veterans. I thank the Chairman and the committee for their continued work to improve veterans’ care at Northport VA and VA facilities across the country.” Last year, after the media first reported that the Northport VA closed operating rooms due to a faulty HVAC system, Congressman Zeldin was contacted by several Long Islanders, including veterans, whistleblowers and other stakeholders, regarding very specific and serious allegations that have been made with regard to the Northport VA. The Congressman shared the information with the House Veterans Affairs Committee. Upon review of the allegations, the committee initiated an investigation that has included a field hearing on September 20, 2016, at the Northport VA entitled, “An Assessment of Deficiencies at the Northport VA Medical Center,” which you can read more about here.
04.06.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement tonight in response to the United States missile strike against Syria: “Bashar al-Assad’s barbaric decision to again use chemical weapons against his own civilian populace resulted in the murder of dozens of innocent men, women, and children. The rest of the world must not sit idly by witnessing such horrific acts of cruelty against innocent civilians. Not only should these chemical weapons have already been destroyed, but the deployment of these illegal weapons are clearly a direct violation of international law. A destabilized Syria has contributed to the rise of ISIS and other regional and global threats. Most recently, it contributed to children being senselessly and tragically murdered. Tonight’s decisive action by the Trump administration sends a powerful message that this particular red line can never be crossed without consequences. It is important to note that the U.S. missile strike in Syria targeted infrastructure, not people. Complacency and inaction has proven to be very costly in the past and we must be smarter and more effective with our efforts, which must include broadening our coalition of support to turn the tide in a country that is sadly in complete chaos, culminating in inhumane chemical warfare against innocent lives. The next chapter for Syria should be one that changes direction in favor of stability and peace. I’d be remiss if I didn’t note tonight how in the United States this evening, Americans are reminded yet again of how very blessed we are to have the finest men and women in uniform serving the most amazing and talented military this world has ever seen.”
04.06.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) today announced $998,750 in funding has been granted to Stony Brook University from the National Science Foundation (NSF). The funding will provide scholarship support for students with an Associate's degree who enroll in a Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) major at SUNY Stony Brook. The funding will also be used to boost STEM programs in schools and secure a network for students through advisement and other academic support structures. Congressman Zeldin said, “I am pleased to announce that Stony Brook University has been awarded $998,750 in funding from the National Science Foundation. This funding will help provide much needed financial support for college students, while boosting participation in the STEM field. The study of STEM is the future and expanding access to STEM programs is vitally important.” “Students transferring to Stony Brook are very well-prepared to succeed at a major public research University, and this NSF award is an incredible resource that will provide opportunities that may not have existed before,” said Samuel L. Stanley Jr. MD, President of Stony Brook University. “By providing more STEM educated students an academic experience that includes undergraduate research and career preparation, more doors will open to them to pursue their goals and the big ideas that ultimately will have a transformative impact on our world.” The National Science Foundation (NSF) was created by the U.S. Congress in 1950 to promote the progress of science, advance national health, prosperity, and welfare, and secure our national defense. Congressman Zeldin supported the Consolidated Appropriations Act, which was signed into law on December 18, 2015. This law provided $7.463 billion in funding for NSF in FY 2016, which was $119 million more than the year before.
04.06.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined with Reps. Randy Hultgren (R, IL-14), Ben Ray Lujan (D, NM-3), and Bill Foster (D, IL-11), and co-led a bipartisan group of 69 signers in the House to call on the House Appropriations Committee to support robust and sustained funding for the Department of Energy (DOE) Office of Science. You can view a copy of the letter here: FY18 DOE Office of Science Approps Request.pdf Congressman Zeldin said, “Providing robust and sustained funding for the Department of Energy, which funds cutting-edge energy research at Brookhaven National Lab (BNL) and SUNY Stony Brook on Long Island, is critically important. Scientific research is the foundation for innovative solutions to overcome our nation’s greatest obstacles, not just to help reduce our electric bills and dependence on foreign sources of energy, but also to lead to advanced treatments for diseases such as cancer, among other challenges. This funding must be a top priority this year, and I’ll continue working with my colleagues in the House on this effort.”
04.04.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Financial Services Committee, spoke on the House floor today in support of the Encouraging Employee Ownership Act of 2017 (H.R. 1343), introduced by Congressman Randy Hultgren (R, IL-14). This legislation would reform the outdated Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) Rule 701, which imposes a slew of complicated regulations on small businesses, especially newly formed start-ups. Reform of this rule would encourage small businesses to grow and expand, creating jobs and growing the economy, and give employees the opportunity for ownership through equity in the businesses they are working for. The Encouraging Employee Ownership Act passed the House today by a vote of 331 to 87. SEC Rule 701 exempts companies below a $5 million threshold to offer securities as part of employees’ compensation without having to comply with federal securities registration requirements. Companies over the threshold must provide additional disclosure, creating a significant obstacle for companies that want to compensate their employees through equity or other securities such as stocks. However, this rule has not been adjusted since 1999. If the disclosure threshold had been adjusted for inflation, it would be almost $7.5 million today. By raising the threshold, more small businesses would be able to offer these incentives to their employees, and more employees would have an increased investment in the business that they work for. Congressman Zeldin said, “The Encouraging Employee Ownership Act of 2017 is bipartisan legislation that will help small businesses grow and expand, encouraging job creation and economic growth, by allowing companies to retain their employees through incentives. By reforming the outdated rule, we can remove outdated barriers to capital formation and job creation imposed on small businesses and start-ups that are driving America’s innovation economy. On Long Island and nationwide, entrepreneurs who have the next great invention or idea are struggling to gain access to capital. By regulating small start-up ventures as if they are large publically traded companies, the SEC is imposing an unnecessary mound of paperwork on start-ups. Start-up ventures can reward hardworking employees by giving them direct ownership while the business continues to grow by offering their employees a stake in the company through equity and other forms of deferred compensation. The Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) rule governing these compensation plans haven’t been updated since 1999. Instead of keeping in place burdensome compliance and reporting requirements, we should be encouraging businesses and entrepreneurs to expand and create more good paying private sector jobs. We see the insidious effect of this ‘compliance tax’ placing a drain on our economy because it diverts the resources and human capital of entrepreneurs away from expansion and job creation. This Congress, we have an opportunity through bipartisan reforms like this legislation to reverse that troubling trend, by removing the regulatory burdens that harm the economy, consumers, and prospects for job growth." To watch Congressman Zeldin’s full speech, click here.
04.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. —Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (NY-01) and Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-02) led a bipartisan group of 95 members of the House of Representatives in calling on the House Appropriations Committee’s Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies to continue their support for the National Sea Grant College Program. The members highlighted the Sea Grant program’s role in cultivating our nation’s aquaculture economy. “With imported seafood making up 90% of American seafood consumption, our nation should be focusing on programs to expand and improve our domestic aquaculture industry,” wrote the members. “Sea Grant is a program that does just that- helping fishermen and shellfish farmers navigate a complex patchwork of state and federal coastal zone management regulations through technical assistance. Sea Grant works with local producers to grow and sustain their business models while connecting them to local resources to share best practices.” The full letter text is below and available online here: Sea Grant Final.pdf Chairman John Culberson Ranking Member José Serrano Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Science, and Related Agencies Committee on Appropriations Committee on Appropriations U.S. House of Representatives U.S. House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Culberson and Ranking Member Serrano: As you develop the Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies appropriations bill, we urge your support for the National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) National Sea Grant College Program—a program critically important to shoreline states throughout the country. Across the nation, thirty-three universities participate in the National Sea Grant Program—a federal-state partnership which provides critical services to a wide range of constituents in every coastal and Great Lakes state, and U.S. territories. Sea Grant contributes to making coastal communities more resilient while also aiding our aquaculture industries in navigating federal and state regulations. In this sense, Sea Grant serves as the coastal, marine-based equivalent of Agriculture Extension programs. With imported seafood making up 90% of American seafood consumption, our nation should be focusing on programs to expand and improve our domestic aquaculture industry. Sea Grant is a program that does just that—helping fishermen and shellfish farmers navigate a complex patchwork of state and federal coastal zone management regulations through technical assistance. Sea Grant works with local producers to grow and sustain their business models while connecting them to local resources to share best practices. The economic impact of the Sea Grant Program highlights the benefit of this federal investment. According to the 2016 performance metrics of the program, Sea Grant contributed to creating and sustaining 20,770 jobs and 2,903 businesses. On top of business and job creation, Sea Grant logged a staggering 265,602 volunteer hours in 2016. Further, the program contributed to $575 million in economic impact—nearly half of our nation’s $1.2 billion aquaculture economy. The National Sea Grant Program is a known job creator that is highly leveraged to maximize the effectiveness of federal investment. This program serves as the primary resource for our coastal small businesses and fishing communities. We urge you to continue your support for this important program. Sincerely, REP. JOE COURTNEY REP. LEE ZELDIN REP. ALMA S. ADAMS REP. GUS M. BILIRAKIS REP. EARL BLUMENAUER REP. LISA BLUNT ROCHESTER REP. MADELEINE Z. BORDALLO REP. ANTHONY G. BROWN REP. JULIA BROWNLEY REP. G. K. BUTTERFIELD REP. SALUD O. CARBAJAL REP. EARL L. "BUDDY" CARTER REP. KATHY CASTOR REP. DAVID N. CICILLINE REP. J. LUIS CORREA REP. CHARLIE CRIST REP. ELIJAH E. CUMMINGS REP. CARLOS CURBELO REP. SUSAN A. DAVIS REP. PETER A. DEFAZIO REP. JOHN K. DELANEY REP. ROSA L. DELAURO REP. SUZAN K. DELBENE REP. MARK DESAULNIER REP. TED DEUTCH REP. DEBBIE DINGELL REP. NEAL P. DUNN REP. ELIOT L. ENGEL REP. ANNA H. ESHOO REP. ADRIANO ESPAILLAT REP. MARCIA L. FUDGE REP. MIKE GALLAGHER REP. LOUIE GOHMERT REP. JENNIFFER GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN REP. GENE GREEN REP. COLLEEN HANABUSA REP. ALCEE L. HASTINGS REP. DENNY HECK REP. BRIAN HIGGINS REP. JAMES A. HIMES REP. JARED HUFFMAN REP. PRAMILA JAYAPAL REP. WALTER B. JONES REP. JOHN KATKO REP. WILLIAM R. KEATING REP. JOSEPH P. KENNEDY III REP. RO KHANNA REP. RON KIND REP. PETER T. KING REP. LEONARD LANCE REP. JOHN B. LARSON REP. BRENDA L. LAWRENCE REP. SANDER M. LEVIN REP. TED W. LIEU REP. FRANK A. LOBIONDO REP. ZOE LOFGREN REP. ALAN LOWENTHAL REP. TOM MARINO REP. A. DONALD MCEACHIN REP. PATRICK MEEHAN REP. GWEN MOORE REP. SETH MOULTON REP. STEPHANIE MURPHY REP. RICHARD M. NOLAN REP. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON REP. FRANK PALLONE, JR. REP. BILL PASCRELL, JR. REP. DONALD M. PAYNE, JR. REP. SCOTT H. PETERS REP. CHELLIE PINGREE REP. MARK POCAN REP. BRUCE POLIQUIN REP. BILL POSEY REP. JAMIE RASKIN REP. KATHLEEN M. RICE REP. DAVID ROUZER REP. JOHN P. SARBANES REP. ROBERT C. "BOBBY" SCOTT REP. CAROL SHEA-PORTER REP. ALBIO SIRES REP. LOUISE MCINTOSH SLAUGHTER REP. ADAM SMITH REP. DARREN SOTO REP. JACKIE SPEIER REP. STEVE STIVERS REP. THOMAS R. SUOZZI REP. MIKE THOMPSON REP. PAUL D. TONKO REP. JUAN VARGAS REP. DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ REP. PETER WELCH REP. FREDERICA S. WILSON REP. ROBERT J. WITTMAN REP. TED S. YOHO REP. DON YOUNG
04.03.2017	Ronkonkoma, NY - On Friday, March 31, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited the Children's Community Head Start Birth-to-Five Program at their center in Ronkonkoma, NY. This program is a federally funded comprehensive early childhood education program serving families across central Suffolk County. During the visit, Congressman Zeldin was able to discuss federal grant funding with the center’s administration. He also read a book with the center’s children. In the first photo, Congressman Zeldin is pictured, left, reading a book to the children. In the second photo, Congressman Zeldin is pictured, center, with the program’s administration.
04.03.2017	The United States tax code is broken and desperately in need of repair to work better for the American worker. Our tax code is complicated, with seven brackets and countless rules, resulting in an overcomplicated and confusing maze. Our tax code is uncompetitive globally with companies, jobs and liquidity moving abroad. There is absolutely no better time than the present for bold, pro growth reform that improves our business climate, and creates more good paying, private sector jobs. America is the greatest nation in the world because we give our citizens the opportunity to work hard and succeed on one’s own merit. However, a burdensome and confusing tax code strips away this opportunity, and it will only get worse unless we take action to fix it. The solution is simple: a tax code that is flatter, fairer, and spurs investment and job creation in the United States instead of overseas. With a new President and Congress, we have the opportunity to reform and simplify our broken tax code so that more Americans can do their taxes on a form as simple as a postcard. We have a once in a generation opportunity to build a tax code that focuses on simplicity and fairness for individuals and families, and growth and job creation for the businesses that keep our nation’s economy moving. President Ronald Reagan’s words decades ago about our nation’s tax code still ring true today. He described the code as full of “loopholes designed for those with the power and influence to hire high-priced legal and tax advisers” and he was right. Anyone who has ever filled out a tax form knows that the entire system is a convoluted mess that needs to be simplified. On top of this, the structure allows for special interest breaks while the average American family struggles to make ends meet. The obvious solution is to reduce the reliance on an endless list of complicated deductions and credits that benefit one special interest over another and confuse the average taxpayer. The goal should be for more hardworking families to actually see the fruits of their labor. A higher standard deduction is being proposed as part of the solution. This would mean less paperwork and time wasted for taxpayers. A higher standard deduction results in a smarter, simpler way to deliver tax savings that doesn’t pick winners and losers. Important deductions that hard working families rely on like the mortgage interest deduction, charitable contribution deduction, and credits for childcare and education will be strengthened by a fairer and clearer tax code. For example, there are currently 15 various provisions in the tax code covering higher education, instead of one clear and simple credit that will help families afford their most important investment. Reforming confusing deductions and closing loopholes will translate into lower tax rates for all Americans. Navigating the confusing tax code is a drain on the growth, investment, and job creation opportunities that business owners want to inject into our local economy. In theory, the current code rewards a business owner when he or she invests in new equipment, facilities, or research and development, allowing them to write-off those expenses over time through depreciation. The system of depreciation schedules, however, is a confusing mess. Our economy can advance further by doing away with depreciation schedules altogether and replacing it with a zero tax rate on all new business investment. This presents a historic opportunity for job creation and growth for American businesses and the American economy. We also need to make our tax code more competitive globally. The United States is the world’s leading economy, and yet we have the highest corporate tax rate in the industrialized world at 35%. Furthermore, our tax code currently pushes jobs overseas, hurting our businesses and driving out good paying private sector jobs. We must reform the code to allow our manufacturers to compete abroad and create more “Made in America” products. Our broken tax code incentivizes the import of cheap foreign products but doesn’t do enough to help our manufacturers or farmers export their products. The solution is simple: we have to lower the corporate rate to make America competitive on the global market again. Also, when our code is reformed to be globally competitive, we’ll see billions in assets that are currently “stranded” overseas come home to create jobs and help grow the economy. We may also be able to use some of those repatriated funds to repair our nation’s infrastructure as well. The tax code should be globally competitive and pro-growth, first and foremost. We must have a tax code that rewards hard work, investment, and innovation. Reforming the tax code so it works in favor of, not in opposition to, the American worker is one of my top priorities for the new term in Congress. While there is much work ahead to make necessary improvements, I am optimistic of what we can accomplish in the coming months and years. We must always put the needs of our nation first, and I will continue to pursue solutions which simplify our tax code and strengthen our economy. Congressman Lee Zeldin, member of the House Financial Services Committee, represents the First Congressional District of New York.
03.30.2017	Washington, DC - On Wednesday, March 29, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with several NY-1 students in his Washington D.C. office as part of the “SUNY Students on the Hill”, a two-day event where students from various SUNY universities come to Washington D.C. to learn about public service and federal advocacy. At the meeting, they discussed funding for the National Institutes of Health and federal student work programs. Pictured above, from left to right, are Kayla Gogarty of Stony Brook University, Lyl Tomlinson of Stony Brook University, Congressman Zeldin, and Evan Rufrano of SUNY Old Westbury.
03.29.2017	Washington, DC - On Wednesday, March 29, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke to the United Spinal Association at their Corporate Advisory Council Congressional Briefing in Washington D.C. The United Spinal Association is an organization dedicated to improving the quality of life for those suffering from spinal cord injuries and disorders. At the briefing, Congressman Zeldin discussed the need to pass his legislation, H.R. 1361, to protect people with such disabilities, by ensuring they have access to vital equipment such as wheelchairs and related accessories. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, center, addressing the crowd.
03.27.2017	Washington, DC - This morning, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released a new online legislative survey where constituents are able to express their views on a number of important topics, including healthcare, national security, and veterans’ affairs. A link to the survey was sent out as an email and posted on the Congressman’s Facebook and Twitter pages. The survey can be accessed here. Congressman Zeldin said, “In Congress, I have always been willing to work with absolutely anyone to move our community, state and nation forward, and I am always interested in receiving feedback from my constituents on the important issues we face. I encourage all of my constituents to take this survey and let me know your positions on the issues which matter most. While I have sent out legislative surveys in the past, this survey is more in depth and covers a breadth of issues ranging from positions on how to grow our economy, ways to combat the heroin and opioid epidemic, and what needs to be done to protect the environment. I look forward to reviewing the results of this survey as we work to secure more victories for New York’s First Congressional District.”
03.27.2017	Jamesport, NY - On Saturday, March 25, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the Jamesport St. Patrick’s Day Parade. Pictured above, from left to right, are Riverhead Town Supervisor Sean Walter, Congressman Zeldin, and Riverhead Town Councilman John Dunleavy.
03.23.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) today continued to set the record straight after New York State Governor Andrew Cuomo released several remarkably dishonest press statements regarding hospital cuts that he was mistakenly trying to claim as originating from the American Health Care Act (AHCA), currently before Congress, which includes the Collins-Faso Amendment to shift the county share of Medicaid costs to New York State. "It is an absolutely undeniable fact that the Disproportionate Share Hospital (DSH) payment cut is actually part of the current federal law that was included in the Affordable Care Act (ACA), otherwise known as Obamacare," Congressman Zeldin said. "In other words, if Congress did absolutely nothing to change federal law, the DSH cuts that are being referenced by Governor Cuomo and hospital CEOs would still kick in. To put it another way, there is nothing in the American Health Care Act, including the Collins-Faso Amendment, that is creating these DSH cuts. Ironically, it is already in the very law, the ACA, that Governor Cuomo is saying and doing absolutely anything at all in order to defend. His claims are not just ironic and hypocritical. They are an outright lie. It is even more disturbing and unfortunate that hospital CEOs have chosen to also advance this same blatant falsehood. As a result of President Obama’s signature healthcare law, and not the American Health Care Act, hospitals stand to lose incredibly high sums of reimbursable expenses by October 1, 2017. This is a black and white fact currently written into federal statute as part of the ACA. The best path forward for Governor Cuomo would be to approach Congressional Republicans to genuinely work with them as opposed to continuing to pound his chest with tall tales about reality. His entire approach insists on avoiding bipartisan at any cost."
03.23.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer (D-NY), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), and Chris Murphy (D-CT) and U.S. Representatives Rosa DeLauro (CT-3) and Lee Zeldin (NY-1) today introduced legislation to support the restoration of Long Island Sound through 2020. The Long Island Sound Restoration and Stewardship Act combines two complementary water quality and shore restoration program authorizations at their previous authorization levels of $40 million and $25 million per year, respectively. The legislation provides for additional focus, oversight and coordination of federal activities related to the restoration of Long Island Sound. “The Long Island Sound is a natural treasure and an economic engine for the whole region that draws families, boaters, tourists and anglers to our shores. This legislation will make sure we have the federal funds necessary to help restore and protect the beaches and waters in and around the Long Island Sound for current and future generations,” said Senator Schumer. “The Long Island Sound is one of our most important natural treasures, and a vital economic anchor that supports thousands of local jobs,” said Senator Gillibrand, a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. “Maintaining these authorization levels would help protect the long-term health of the Sound and help promote economic development in the area. I will continue to work with my colleagues to build on the ongoing efforts to restore the Sound for generations to come.” “This important measure helps protect and preserve one of our nation's most precious and important natural treasures – the Long Island Sound – which provides immense environmental and economic benefits to Connecticut and the country. Not only is the Sound home to a diverse array of wildlife, it is also a foundation for hundreds of jobs in the tourism, shellfish, manufacturing, and maritime industries. I will continue working with my colleagues to ensure that the Long Island Sound remains one of Connecticut’s most treasured and valuable resources for years to come,” said Senator Blumenthal. “Long Island Sound is a job creator for Connecticut. It generates billions of dollars from tourism, fishing, and shipping for our state each year, and keeping it clean is simply the right thing to do for the environment and our economy,” said Senator Murphy. “This bill could be a game-changer for Long Island Sound. I won’t stop fighting until it is signed into law.” “Today, I am proud to introduce the Long Island Sound Restoration and Stewardship Act, which will help ensure the restoration and long-term health of one of our greatest natural treasures—the Long Island Sound. This legislation will bring critical investments to our regional economy, our environment, and our communities throughout Connecticut and New York,” said Congresswoman DeLauro. “This legislation is essential to future restoration efforts, especially in light of the Trump Administration’s plan to eliminate EPA funding for the Sound. I will work with my colleagues both in the House and in the Senate to pass this legislation and ensure that the Long Island Sound will continue to be a valuable resource for generations to come.” Congressman Zeldin said, “I am honored to help introduce this critical legislation to preserve and protect the Long Island Sound. An essential part of our local recreation and tourism industries, the Sound is relied upon by thousands of Long Islanders as a means of living, and is home to more than 9 million people living in the surrounding coastal communities. We must do everything we can to protect this natural treasure which is a precious feature of our life, culture and economy here in the First Congressional District of New York.” In 1985, the EPA, in agreement with New York and Connecticut, created the Long Island Sound Study (LISS), an office under the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) charged with advancing efforts to restore the sound and address low oxygen levels and nitrogen levels that have depleted fish and shellfish populations as well as hurt shoreline wetlands. In 1990, the Long Island Sound Improvement Act passed providing federal dollars to advance Sound cleanup projects, including wastewater treatment improvements. In 2006, identifying the need for increased stakeholder participation and the need to focus on coastal restoration and improved public access and education, Congress passed the Long Island Sound Stewardship Act, which provided federal dollars for projects to restore the coastal habitat to help revitalize the wildlife population and coastal wetlands and plant life. Since then, for every $1 appropriated, the LISS has leveraged $87 from other Federal, state, local and private funding sources, totaling more than $3.8 billion. This funding has enabled programs to significantly reduce the amount of nitrogen entering the Long Island Sound from sewage treatment plants by 42,000,000 lbs. per year as of 2015 compared to the 1990s, restored at least 1,548 acres and protected 2,580 acres of habitat land. The Sound borders New York and Connecticut, with 9 million people living on the coast and 24 million people living within 50 miles. Although decades of high levels of development, pollution, dumping of dredged materials, and releases of untreated sewage have severely hurt the water quality, the Sound’s economic contribution, including from sport and commercial fishing, boating, recreation and tourism, is estimated to be between $17 billion and $37 billion annually. The legislation would allow the LISS to maintain the important gains that have been made, and build on those achievements to further protect and restore the sound and watershed for future generations.
03.22.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement today after Governor Andrew Cuomo released several press statements riddled with lies regarding the impacts of the Collins-Faso Amendment and American Health Care Act on hospitals in congressional districts around New York with Republican Members of Congress: “It's quite disappointing that Governor Cuomo has resorted to these disgusting and willfully untruthful tactics. The Collins-Faso amendment doesn't even include any cuts to hospitals whatsoever. The amendment is a proposal to shift to the state the local share of Medicaid from the counties outside of New York City, including Suffolk County. It does not propose a $2.3 billion cut. Governor Cuomo is choosing on his own to react to the amendment, by threatening a cut to scare people. Let’s call this for exactly what it is. Furthermore, Governor Cuomo is completely lying about the Disproportionate Share Hospital (DSH) payment cut after I specifically explained this to him in detail on a 30 minute one on one phone call yesterday. The DSH cuts are part of federal law under the Affordable Care Act (ACA). If Congress does absolutely nothing, hospitals would still receive those DSH cuts, not because of the American Health Care Act, but because those cuts are already part of federal law under the ACA. It’s also crazy that he would be using the tactics in this press release when he has short changed these hospitals out of so much more money owed to them throughout the years. Governor Cuomo's own father knew that the Collins-Faso amendment should be implemented in New York State when he proposed it 23 years ago while Mario Cuomo was Governor (https://www.nytimes.com/1994/02/18/opinion/mr-cuomo-s-medicaid-cure.html). Does the Governor believe that Mario Cuomo was a "radical conservative" as Governor as well? Of course not. Between the Governor's scams associated with his conversion to managed long term care in New York, his private contracts with 1199 SEIU, his failed Health Republic experiment, and his mishandling of Medicaid issues related to Visiting Nurse Services, he really should be looking in the mirror and deciding whether his $60 billion a year Medicaid budget has $2.3 billion in efficiencies to be pursued that he knows wouldn’t hurt any low income New Yorkers. If he needs any advice on how to get there, I'd be happy to help point him in the right direction. These scare tactics and lies about the Collins-Faso amendment are shameful and disgusting. It is like he has checked out on doing the tough work as Governor to make New York State operate like a well-oiled machine again. Our county governments around the state desperately need this mandate relief. This amendment to the American Health Care Act is the single greatest act of fiscal relief ever provided to the County of Suffolk and its taxpayers. This legislation single handily flips Suffolk County's recurring massive nine figure budget deficits into budget surpluses. Taxpayers in Suffolk County are hitting the jackpot of mandate relief as a result of this proposal. For the County, and most importantly, Suffolk County residents, this is a dream scenario that lifts our county out of a very dire annual budget crisis. According to the Suffolk County Comptroller’s Office, this would save Suffolk County $4.6 million per week. New York State absolutely can and should identify and achieve the $2.3 billion amount of efficiency necessary and available in the state Medicaid system and make it clear that this can be achieved without harming any low income New Yorkers in need of coverage. If the state needs any ideas, I stand more than happy to assist. The Governor's statements and press releases always fail to state absolutely any acknowledgment whatsoever that the Affordable Care Act, otherwise known as Obamacare, is flawed. Nothing at all is ever included about any of the lost doctors, cancelled policies, higher premiums or higher deductibles that New Yorkers are now facing. There is never any acknowledgment whatsoever that New York's Health Exchange had just one co-op, Health Republic of New York, that collapsed, because the state picked an entity to run it, the Freelancers Union, which had no idea how to create a health care plan so they rented a health plan’s network. They didn't know how to sell the policies so they marked them down and when they realized that their math didn't add up and went to New York State regulators asking for permission to raise their rates, New York told them to make it work, which resulted in (just in time for the 2015 holiday season) a collapse that left over 200,000 New Yorkers without health insurance and providers on the hook with six, seven and eight figures worth of money still owed to them. Many of those impacted New Yorkers who switched policies received the 2016 version of this disaster of a holiday gift repeat as they were notified that their providers were no longer going to honor their new policies. There is never any acknowledgment whatsoever of the cost of the Governor's debacle trying to convert New Yorkers to Managed Long Term Care. In 2011, when a Wall Street Journal article revealed that the New York State Office of the Medicaid Inspector General (OMIG) was investigating Visiting Nurse Services (VNS) for overbilling New York taxpayers by $224 million in illegal Medicaid claims in 2004-2005, the Governor actually fired the Inspector General at OMIG of all people, while also choosing to promote the CEO of VNS, Carol Raphael, to become his new co-chair of his new Medicaid Redesign Team. Then, with the assumption that all for-profits are evil without exception and all not for profits are doing heroic work without exception, the Medicaid Redesign Team started pushing New Yorkers into Managed Long Term Care and only offered medallions for these services to not for profits. Then, when the New York Times exposed the abuse of this new cronyism as VNS was targeting and signing up healthy people in order to milk the system, the Governor didn't just suspend VNS to cover himself, he suspended the entire signup system so that when the suspension was lifted, VNS would still have enough healthy people left to sign up to game the system, albeit more discreetly. New York State spends more money on Medicaid than Illinois, Texas and Florida combined. New York has the same population as Florida, but spends more money on Medicaid costs than Florida spends on its entire state budget. As I have stated previously, the Governor really needs to dedicate way more of his time getting his own house in order, because it's a house of cards right now that is filling Albany's swamp rather than draining it.”
03.22.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement today in support of the Collins-Faso Amendment, which was introduced by Congressmen Chris Collins (R, NY-27) and John Faso (R, NY-19) in the House this week. The amendment was included in the Managers Amendment to the American Health Care Act (AHCA), H.R. 1628. Each year, New York spends $60 billion on Medicaid, which is the second highest spending level in the United States. New York State currently raises $7 billion from the counties outside of New York City to fund a $27 billion Medicaid liability. This amendment, which would shift the local share of Medicaid costs from Suffolk County to New York State, would provide counties with the flexibility to prioritize taxpayer dollars and reduce property taxes for residents. Congressman Zeldin said, “This amendment to the American Health Care Act is the single greatest act of fiscal relief ever provided to the County of Suffolk and its taxpayers. This legislation single handily flips Suffolk County's recurring massive nine figure budget deficits into budget surpluses. Taxpayers in Suffolk County are hitting the jackpot of mandate relief as a result of this proposal. For the County, and most importantly, Suffolk County residents, this is a dream scenario that lifts our county out of a very dire annual budget crisis. According to the Suffolk County Comptroller’s Office, this would save Suffolk County $4.6 million per week. New York State absolutely can and should identify and achieve the $2.3 billion amount of efficiency necessary and available in the state Medicaid system and make it clear that this can be achieved without harming any low income New Yorkers in need of coverage. If the state needs any ideas, I stand more than happy to assist.”
03.21.2017	Mastic Beach, NY - On Monday, March 20, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke to an AP World History & Participation in Government class at William Floyd High School in Mastic Beach, NY, where Congressman Zeldin also went to high school. Congressman Zeldin, pictured above center, discussed the legislative process and answered questions from the students.
03.20.2017	Hampton Bays, NY - On Saturday, March 18, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the Hampton Bays Hibernians St. Patrick’s Day Parade. Pictured above, from left to right, are Southampton Town Trustee Scott Horowitz, Southampton Town Councilman Stan Glinka, Southampton Town Councilwoman Christine Scalera, Congressman Zeldin, and Southampton Town Supervisor Jay Schneiderman.
03.20.2017	The Long Island Sound and Peconic Estuary are precious features of our life, culture and economy here in the First Congressional District of New York. We are blessed to be surrounded by water on three sides; however, with this blessing comes the responsibility of ensuring our waters are supported and protected. Pollution, overdevelopment, and other negative impacts have caused the Long Island Sound and Peconic Estuary to suffer over the years. These two waterways have even been recognized by the Environmental Protection Agency to be two of the 28 estuaries of “national significance” due to their threatened status from pollution and overdevelopment. The Long Island Sound and Peconic Estuary are key natural and economic resources, and we must do everything we can to protect these natural treasures. An essential part of our local recreation and tourism industries, the Sound is relied upon by thousands of Long Islanders as a means of living, and is home to more than 9 million people living in the surrounding coastal communities. It also provides a diverse ecosystem with more than 170 species of fish, over 1,200 invertebrates and many different species of migratory birds. The Peconic Estuary is juxtaposed between the North and South Forks of Long Island, with a watershed which begins in the heart of our district at Brookhaven National Laboratory. Waters from this estuary flow into the Peconic Bay, which then leads into the Block Island Sound. Our coastal communities on both forks rely on this estuary; we can and must do more to ensure its preservation. I recently held a press conference in Mattituck where I requested full funding for two essential environmental protection programs. The first of these is the Long Island Sound Program, a vital initiative dedicated to protecting water quality, restoring wetlands and local beaches, and supporting various local conservation projects. It also addresses the urgent and challenging issues, such as nitrogen, harmful algae blooms, and flooding or wetland loss, that threaten the ecological and economic well-being of coastal areas. Last July, the House of Representatives passed a bill that contained $10 million for the Long Island Sound Program; unfortunately, the bill received no action in the Senate. It is so important that we secure this funding, and I’ve pressed House leadership directly on how essential $10 million or more for this program would be for our region’s environment and economy. Additionally, I recently joined with U.S. Senators Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Chris Murphy (D-CT) and U.S. Representative Rosa DeLauro (CT-3) in sending a letter to EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt urging him to oppose cuts to the Long Island Sound program. In the letter, we illustrate how any cuts to this program would have a detrimental impact on ongoing efforts to restore and protect the Sound’s water quality and harm the quality of life for the millions of our constituents who live, work and recreate on or near the Sound. The second of these programs is the National Estuary Program. An important EPA wetlands protection program, the National Estuary Program was established by the Clean Water Act and grants funding to state and local programs which promote water quality and wetland restoration. This critical program supports both the Peconic Bay and Long Island Sound; as such, ensuring they receive proper funding is a top priority. In the last Congress, I helped lead the bipartisan effort to successfully reauthorize the National Estuary Program which resulted in a $26.5 million appropriation of funding. As a founding member of the bipartisan Congressional Estuary Caucus, I am calling on Congress to protect this funding so it can be used to the protect the Sound and support so many other waterways in the United States. In addition, last Congress, alongside former Congressman Steve Israel, I introduced the Long Island Sound Restoration and Stewardship Act (H.R 2930) to reauthorize essential water quality funding for the Sound. This legislation, which I plan on reintroducing in this new Congress, would propose tens of millions of dollars in annual funding for water quality, shore restoration, and additional focus, oversight and coordination of federal activities related to the restoration of the Sound. As co-chair of the Long Island Sound Caucus and a member of the Coastal Communities Caucus, I’m calling on my colleagues to help ensure that both the Long Island Sound Program and National Estuary Program are fully supported and funded in the upcoming appropriations process; and certainly not eliminated. While we have made great efforts to protect the Long Island Sound and Peconic Estuary so far, there is still so much more we can do to ensure these natural treasures are safeguarded for generations to come. We must now redouble our efforts to protect the quality of our waterways, which are depended upon by millions of people. I am committed to making sure they remain funded, supported and preserved; there is so much more we can do to support the Long Island Sound and Peconic Bay, and I will continue working in Congress to ensure our waterways remain protected. Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) is a co-chair of the Long Island Sound Caucus and a founding member of the bipartisan Congressional Estuary Caucus.
03.17.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) invited Aram V. Terchunian of Westhampton Beach, New York, President of First Coastal Corporation, to testify as a witness yesterday at a Housing and Insurance Subcommittee hearing entitled, “Flood Insurance Reform: A Community Perspective.” Another Long Island resident, Melissa Luckman, Director of Disaster Law at Touro Law School, in Central Islip, New York, also participated in the hearing. Congressman Zeldin said, “The Housing and Insurance Subcommittee is currently considering the best path forward for the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) and how to improve it to protect the solvency of the program and affordability for Long Island taxpayers. In Congress, I have heard from many Long Island homeowners who face difficulties navigating the complicated process and cutting through bureaucratic red tape when seeking an improvement in their premiums after an investment has been made to elevate a home or take other steps to protect a property. I invited Aram Terchunian of Westhampton Beach to share his personal experiences with the NFIP. With over 30 years of experience in storm mitigation and coastal restoration work, dealing directly with the NFIP on a daily basis, Mr. Terchunian’s firsthand experiences made him a valuable panelist for yesterday's hearing. Melissa Luckman shared the challenges she has encountered dealing with NFIP when helping guide families through the claims process. I'm looking forward to continuing my work with the committee to ensure a stable, solvent future for NFIP and sound, affordable policies for homeowners.” Congressman Duffy, Chairman of the Housing and Insurance Subcommittee, said, “After getting FEMA’s perspective on flood insurance reform last week, this week’s hearing was an opportunity to hear a perspective from those whose community depend on the National Flood Insurance Program. Especially after Superstorm Sandy, it’s important to learn from FEMA’s claims review process, how to prepare against flood damage through better mitigation, and to better understand the barriers to entry for private flood insurance providers who may be able to offer consumers better costs and services, including claims handling.” Aram Terchuniam said, "I was honored to be invited by Congressman Zeldin to testify before Congress on the importance of the National Flood Insurance Program to Long Island residents. Flood mitigation projects, such as the Fire Island to Montauk Point (FIMP) project are critical to the protection of Long Islanders and lowering flood insurance risk.” Melissa Luckman said, “I was honored to be asked to testify before the House Subcommittee on Flood Insurance Reform. Immediately after Superstorm Sandy, the widespread fraud and systemic underpayments of flood insurance were discovered. With the NFIP set to expire in September 2017, it is imperative that Congress take in account the reforms suggested by myself, as well as the other witnesses, to ensure that what happened to Sandy survivors never happens to policyholders again.” The Subcommittee's full hearing can be viewed here.
03.17.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced that he reintroduced the Student Testing Improvement and Accountability Act (H.R. 1601) in the 115th Congress. This bipartisan bill, which Congressman Zeldin introduced with Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema (D, AZ-9), would roll back the excessive amount of federally mandated testing in our schools, reducing testing to pre-No Child Left Behind levels. Congressman Zeldin said, “I am proud to reintroduce the Student Testing Improvement and Accountability Act to roll back federally mandated testing to pre-No Child Left Behind levels. We must pass this commonsense legislation if we are to put our children’s education and well-being first, not excessive federally mandated testing. I believe in challenging our students and holding them to higher standards, but we also must do everything in our power to set them up to succeed, not fail. The Student Testing Improvement and Accountability Act is an important next step in shifting the focus in our classrooms from testing to teaching and ensuring our children never lose their love of learning. I look forward to passing this legislation which prioritizes first our children’s education and well-being.” “To grow a global workforce, we must ensure students have the skills and knowledge they need for the jobs of the future,” said Congresswoman Sinema. “Students should master the material, not memorize content for an upcoming test. This commonsense solution allows teachers to focus on learning, creativity, and critical thinking – the skills students need to succeed.” In the 114th Congress, the Student Testing Improvement and Accountability Act (H.R. 452), which Congressman Zeldin cosponsored, was introduced by former Congressman Chris Gibson. The legislation was referred to the House Education and the Workforce Subcommittee on Early Childhood, Elementary, and Secondary Education.
03.17.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement today regarding President Trump’s proposed budget cuts that would negatively impact Brookhaven National Laboratory and the State University of New York at Stony Brook: Congressman Zeldin said, “There are many positive proposals under President Trump’s budget request, including a proposed increase in funding for national security and defense, counterterrorism efforts, veterans care at VA facilities, mental health care support and services, and infrastructure improvements, just to list a few. These are efforts that I have been continuously supportive of throughout my time in Congress and I’ll continue to push for this funding to ensure that it is granted. However, I strongly oppose the proposed cuts to Brookhaven National Lab (BNL), SUNY Stony Brook (SBU) and other sources of scientific research in the First Congressional District. Throughout the years, we have seen some of the world's greatest science research conducted at these facilities.” “Regardless of who is in the White House, the Constitution puts government funding strictly under Congress to initiate through the appropriations process,” Congressman Zeldin continued. “The President’s budget request is just that: a request. It has no force of law or legislation.” “Advocating for important funding that impacts the First Congressional District is one of my top priorities and as Congress takes up funding bills this spring and summer, I will continue advocating for the proper funding for the First Congressional District and all of Long Island,” Congressman Zeldin concluded. Earlier this week, Congressman Zeldin joined with U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer (D-NY), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), and Chris Murphy (D-CT) and U.S. Representative Rosa DeLauro (CT-3) to urge Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator, Scott Pruitt, to oppose cuts to the EPA’s Long Island Sound geographic program. You can read more here. This week, Congressman Zeldin also hosted a press conference, where he was joined by local elected officials and environmental advocates, calling for full support of the Long Island Sound Program and National Estuary Program to ensure both are fully supported and funded in the upcoming appropriations process; and not eliminated. Read more here.
03.16.2017	Washington, DC - On Wednesday, March 15, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with 17 year old Emily Peterson of St. James, New York, in his Washington D.C. office, where they discussed the Regeneron Science Talent Search (Regeneron STS). Emily was named a finalist in Regeneron STS, the nation’s oldest and most prestigious science competition for high school seniors, which was founded and produced by the Society for Science & the Public. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, with Emily, left.
03.15.2017	Commercial Fishing, Tourism, Sporting Industries from Long Island Sound Contribute $17-$37 Billion to the Economy Annually Members: Cuts to Geographic Program would Have Detrimental Effect on Ongoing Efforts to Restore and Protect Long Island Sound’s Water Quality Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer (D-NY), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), and Chris Murphy (D-CT) and U.S. Representatives Lee Zeldin (NY-1) and Rosa DeLauro (CT-3) today led a bipartisan letter to the Environmental Protection Agency urging Administrator Scott Pruitt to oppose cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency’s Long Island Sound geographic program for Fiscal Year 2018. The members cited ongoing efforts to restore and protect Long Island Sound’s water quality for residents who live, work, and participate in recreational activities on or near the Sound. “Any cuts to this program would have a detrimental impact on ongoing efforts to restore and protect Long Island Sound’s water quality and harm the quality of life for the millions of our constituents who live, work and recreate on or near the Sound,” the members wrote in the letter. “Federal funding to continue the Environmental Protection Agency’s program for Long Island Sound is critical to our regional economies and the quality of our environment. Continuing to fund the Long Island Sound Restoration and Stewardship Acts will allow the EPA to continue to work collaboratively with local stakeholders to address water quality and invest in new strategies to reduce pollution and improve the environmental quality of the region.” In 1985, the EPA, in an agreement with New York and Connecticut, created the Long Island Sound Study (LISS), an office under the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) charged with advancing efforts to restore the sound and address low oxygen levels and nitrogen levels that have depleted fish and shellfish populations and have also hurt shoreline wetlands. In 1990, the Long Island Sound Improvement Act was signed into law, providing federal dollars to advance Sound cleanup projects, including wastewater treatment improvements. In 2006, identifying the need for increased stakeholder participation and the need to focus on coastal restoration and improved public access and education, Congress passed the Long Island Sound Stewardship Act, which provided federal dollars for projects to restore the coastal habitat to help revitalize the wildlife population, coastal wetlands, and plant life. Since then, for every $1 appropriated, the LISS has leveraged $87 from other Federal, state, local, and private funding sources, totaling more than $3.8 billion. This funding has enabled programs to significantly reduce the amount of nitrogen entering the Long Island Sound from sewage treatment plants by 35,000,000 lbs. per year as of 2013, compared to the 1990s. It has also restored at least 1,548 acres and protected 2,580 acres of habitat land. Schumer, Gillibrand, Blumenthal, Murphy, Zeldin and DeLauro were joined by Elizabeth Esty (CT-5), John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Eliot Engel (NY-16), Thomas Suozzi (NY-3), Jim Himes (CT-4), Grace Meng (NY-6), Joe Crowley (NY-14), Pete King (NY-2), Nita Lowey (NY-17), Daniel Donovan (NY-11), Hakeem Jefferies (NY-8), Kathleen Rice (NY-4) and Jerrold Nadler (NY-10). The full text of the joint letter is included below: Dear Administrator Pruitt, We are writing to strongly oppose any cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency’s Long Island Sound geographic program in the President’s FY2018 budget request to Congress. Any cuts to this program would have a detrimental impact on ongoing efforts to restore and protect Long Island Sound’s water quality and harm the quality of life for the millions of our constituents who live, work and recreate on or near the Sound. Federal funding to continue the Environmental Protection Agency’s program for Long Island Sound is critical to our regional economies and the quality of our environment. The Long Island Sound is one of 28 estuaries included in the National Estuary Program, and with more than 23 million people living within 50 miles of the Sound, it is a major contributor of economic development and a source of recreation for residents and visitors alike. According to the Long Island Sound Study, the annual economic value of the sound is between $17 billion and $37 billion each year. The Sound is home to more than 120 species of fish, which contribute to our states’ vibrant commercial and recreational fishing industries. In 2000 and 2006, respectively, Congress enacted the Long Island Sound Restoration Act and the Long Island Sound Stewardship Act, which together authorized critical funding for projects that improve water quality, restore and protect habitats, and increase public awareness to the issues affecting the Long Island Sound and its watershed. This funding has allowed the federal government, working with state and local partners, as well as with the private sector, to make significant progress in improving the Sound. For example, as of 2015, the amount of nitrogen entering the Sound from sewage treatment plants has decreased by 42 million lbs. per year as a result of EPA funding. Continuing to fund the Long Island Sound Restoration and Stewardship Acts will allow the EPA to continue to work collaboratively with local stakeholders to address water quality and invest in new strategies to reduce pollution and improve the environmental quality of the region. Important Environmental Protection Agency funding for the Long Island Sound Study area has been very effective in leveraging additional resources from state, local and private partners. According to the Long Island Sound Study Office, since 2006, for every $1 in EPA funding, $87 was leveraged from other sources. Thank you for your attention to this request, and we urge you to work with us to ensure that this critical funding is retained for Fiscal Year 2018.
03.15.2017	Washington, DC - On Wednesday, March 15, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with eighth grade students from the Montauk Public School following their tour of the Capitol. At the meeting, Congressman Zeldin was able to answer questions from the students regarding the legislative process. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, with the students in front of the Statue of Freedom in the Capitol Visitors Center.
03.13.2017	Mattituck, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Co-Chair of the Long Island Sound Caucus and a founding member of the bipartisan Congressional Estuary Caucus, joined by local elected officials and environmental advocates, hosted a press conference today calling for full support of the Long Island Sound Program and National Estuary Program to ensure both are fully supported and funded in the upcoming appropriations process; and not eliminated. Congressman Zeldin said, “One of our natural treasures, the Long Island Sound, is a precious feature of our life, culture and economy. It is also essential to our local recreation and tourism industries, as well as the livelihood of thousands of Long Islanders. As such, a key natural and economic resource, we must continue to protect this critical waterway. Over the years, water quality around Long Island has suffered from pollution, overdevelopment and other negative impacts. The Long Island Sound Program is dedicated to water quality and wetlands restoration, as well as other local conservation projects to restore local beaches and protect wildlife. Funding is prioritized to address urgent and challenging issues that threaten the ecological and economic well-being of coastal areas including nitrogen, harmful algae blooms, and flooding or wetland loss. The National Estuary Program is an important Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) wetlands protection program for 28 estuaries in the United States that the EPA has recognized to be of “national significance” due to their threatened status from pollution and overdevelopment. There are two here on the East End: the Long Island Sound and Peconic Bay. The National Estuary Program was established by the Clean Water Act and makes important grants to state and local programs to promote water quality and wetland restoration. The National Estuary Program is the primary funding source for the Peconic Estuary Program." "As co-chair of the Long Island Sound Caucus," Congressman Zeldin continued, "I’m calling on my colleagues to help ensure that the Long Island Sound Program and National Estuary Program are fully supported and funded in the upcoming appropriations process; and certainly not eliminated. Last Congress, working across the aisle, I helped reverse President Obama’s proposed 22% cut in funding for the Long Island Sound. Working on a bipartisan basis, I also helped lead the effort to successfully reauthorize the National Estuary Program, which authorized the $26.5 million in funding that was approved for the National Estuary Program. We must now redouble our efforts. Regardless of who is in the White House, the Constitution puts government funding strictly under the control of Congress through the appropriations process. We expect this week to see at least initial public drafts of the Administration’s budget request - and that's all it is, a request. It has no force of law or legislation. Just like the bipartisan coalition that stopped President Obama’s proposed cut to the LI Sound program, I will continue to work alongside Democrats and Republicans in our region to secure this important environmental funding." Congressman Zeldin concluded, "Today, I am requesting full funding for two EPA programs essential for our local environment and at levels already approved last Congress with bipartisan support- $10 million approved by the House for the Long Island Sound Program and $26.5 million approved by the House and Senate for the National Estuary Program. At the moment, we appear to have two important appropriations deadlines this year - at the end of April we have to fund the government for the second half of FY 2017, and by September 30 we have to fund the government for FY 2018. Last July, the House passed an Interior & Environment appropriations bill that contained $10 million for the LI Sound Program, which was secured on a bipartisan basis. This bill unfortunately received no action in the Senate. I've pressed House leadership directly on how essential $10 million or more for the Long Island Sound program would be for our region's environment and economy. Also, as a founding member of the bipartisan Congressional Estuary Caucus, which was formed last month to advocate for funding through the National Estuary Program, I am calling on Congress to protect the $26.5 million secured for the National Estuary Program last year. Lastly, and on a related point, I am advocating for bipartisan support and passage for the Long Island Sound Restoration and Stewardship Act, which would reauthorize essential water quality funding for the Long Island Sound. I introduced this bill in the last Congress with former Congressman Steve Israel, and I plan on re-introducing this bill again this Congress. The Long Island Sound Restoration and Stewardship Act would propose tens of millions of dollars in funding per year through 2020 for a water quality and shore restoration program and additional focus, oversight and coordination of federal activities related to the restoration of the Sound. So just to recap, what we are asking for is: (1) At least $10 million for the Long Island Sound Program; (2) $26.5 million for the National Estuary Program; and (3) passage of the LI Sound Restoration and Stewardship Act. There is much we can do to improve water quality in the Long Island Sound and Peconic Estuary, and I will continue working in Congress to ensure our waterways are preserved for generations to come.” New York State Senator Ken LaValle said, “Protecting our land, air and water are crucial priorities for Long Island. Federal funding of the National Estuary Program and the Long Island Sound Program are critically important. I look forward to our continued partnership as we further our efforts to protect and restore our water resources for future generations.” Southold Councilman William P. Ruland, Deputy Supervisor of Southold Town, said, “I am pleased to support Congressman Zeldin in moving forward with this endeavor. There is a great need for the Long Island Sound study as it is an important issue for the residents of the Town of Southold.” Southold Town Councilman Bob Ghosio Jr. said, “The LI Sound and estuaries are such a vital natural resource that is not only an economic driver for tourism, food production, and recreational outlets, but is also a habitat for so much of the wildlife and natural beauty that makes our quality of life in Southold Town so special. I am pleased to know that Congressman Zeldin will be our advocate in Washington to bring much needed funding to ensure the LI Sound gets the attention it deserves to keep it biologically productive for generations to come.” Dr. Alison Branco, Director of the Peconic Estuary Program, said, "We are extremely grateful for the consistent support of Congressman Zeldin. National Estuary Programs, like PEP, are non-regulatory and consensus-driven, building diverse partnerships to achieve on-the-ground results. Federal investment in our estuaries of national significance supports thousands of jobs, strengthens America’s economy, and helps ensure the future of our coastal communities." “Save the Sound applauds Congressman Zeldin for standing up to fund a clean and vibrant Long Island Sound – our nation’s great urban estuary,” commented Curt Johnson, Executive Director of Save the Sound. “This funding is essential to heal our waters, allow fish to survive and make every beach safe for our children to enjoy swimming. Congressman Zeldin’s leadership demonstrates that clean, safe and vibrant bays, harbors and estuaries is not a Republican or Democratic issue. It’s an issue for every American who has ever enjoyed a day at the beach.” George Hoffman, Trustee of Setauket Harbor Task Force, said, “With Congressman Zeldin's strong advocacy and leadership, the Long Island Sound Study, a consortium of federal, state and environmental organizations has turned the corner on cleaning up the water in LI Sound and its harbors and bays. Continued federal funding is critical to survival of this important and productive estuary.”
03.13.2017	Smithtown, NY - On Saturday, March 11, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended a Cub Scout Blue and Gold Ceremony for Pack 589 of Smithtown, NY. The Blue and Gold Ceremony is an annual event where Scouts receive the awards and rank badges they worked for throughout the year. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, center left, with a Scout Master and several Scouts who received the Arrow of Light, the highest award in Cub Scouts that a Scout can receive. The Scouts receiving the Arrow of Light, from left to right, are William Burns, Anthony Russo, Jordan Conter, Gabriel Dano, and Jason Ruland Jr.
03.13.2017	Rocky Point, NY - On Sunday, March 12, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the Friends of St. Patrick Annual Rocky Point St. Patrick’s Day Parade. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with several other elected officials from the community.
03.13.2017	Patchogue, NY - On Sunday, March 12, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) presented a Congressional Record to Linda Nuszen at the Look Up and Rock Concert for the Look Up For Adam Foundation in Patchogue, NY. The Look Up For Adam Foundation is a non-profit organization dedicated to helping families with a member who struggles with drug addiction. The foundation was formed by Linda Nuszen in memory of her son, Adam, who passed away from a drug overdose. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, center right, with Linda Nuszen, center left.
03.11.2017	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) just issued a statement in response to a Newsday article today attacking the military service of United States Navy combat veteran and Naval Reserve Commander Tom Croci: Congressman Zeldin said, "Absolutely disgusting Newsday hit job today on U.S. Navy combat veteran Tom Croci. Embarrassed for whoever was involved in the decision to attack a military veteran for deploying to a war zone to defend Newsday's rights to print this garbage. They should learn a lesson from the mistreatment of our nation's veterans who returned home from Vietnam and were spat on. They should just retract their whole story and issue a correction that says ‘Thank you Tom for your service to our country’.”
03.10.2017	Washington, DC - On Friday, March 10, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with medical student representatives from the American Medical Association. These students, three of whom are NY-1 residents, were visiting Washington, DC as part of an annual trip for Medical Student Advocacy Day. Topics of discussion at the meeting included Graduate Medical Education funding, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, and the American Health Care Act. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with the medical students on the Speaker’s Balcony.
03.10.2017	Washington, DC - On Thursday, March 9, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with actress Edie Falco in the U.S. Capitol to discuss animal welfare policy issues. Arguably most famous for her role in The Sopranos, Edie Falco has appeared in over 50 films and television shows, and is a New York resident with a home in NY-1. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with Ms. Falco, right, on the Speaker’s Balcony.
03.08.2017	Washington, DC - On Tuesday, March 7, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke to the YMCA Youth and Government program in the Library of Congress. The YMCA Youth and Government is a nationwide program designed to introduce and educate our students on the inner workings of government. Congressman Zeldin was a member of this great program as a student at William Floyd High School in Mastic Beach, New York. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, speaking to members of the program, including several from New York.
03.08.2017	Washington, DC – Tonight, March 7, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted his first Facebook Live session from Washington, DC. You can view the recording of the Facebook Live session through Congressman Zeldin’s Facebook page here. There were over 14,000 interactions (Comments/Likes/Shares) during the FB Live session. During the Facebook Live session, Congressman Zeldin provided an update from our nation's Capitol on his work in Congress and answered questions from constituents from the comfort of their own homes. NY-1 constituents were able to comment throughout the Facebook Live session and ask the Congressman questions. Congressman Zeldin has had two straight years of public forums, telephone town halls, and mobile office hours, including the most recent mobile office event that took place this past Friday, March 3rd. Congressman Zeldin also continues to attend countless public forums, including a public forum on March 3rd that was hosted by the Long Island Metro Business Alliance (LIMBA), where he answered questions posed by the moderator and audience. Congressman Zeldin's days have also been filled with great individual and small group meetings with constituents spanning the ideological spectrum. On Thursday, February 23rd, Congressman Zeldin also hosted a TeleTown Hall event, where approximately 100,000 homes were called. During the call, there were 9,116 people on the phone listening. There were also an additional 1,015 listening online. The Congressman has been doing these for years, approximately quarterly since he was in the State Senate. Congressman Zeldin is in favor of engaging with constituents in any substantive, productive setting. Congressman Zeldin also meets regularly with his constituents of all backgrounds individually and in small groups, which take more time, but have proven to be substantive, informative and productive.
03.07.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) re-introduced his bipartisan bill to protect people with disabilities, by ensuring they have access to vital equipment (H.R. 1361). The Congressman’s legislation, which clarifies the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act (MIPPA) of 2008, is an important bill to secure the essential specialized power wheelchairs and related accessories relied on by people with disabilities and their families. You can view a copy of the bill text here: ZELDIN_010_xml.pdf Under MIPPA of 2008, complex rehabilitation technology devices would be excluded from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Competitive Bidding Program. Excluded devices include power wheelchairs and the related accessories, which are the fundamental parts of the products that make them useful and beneficial to people with progressed disabilities—such as recline/tilt systems, specialty controls and seat/back cushions. In November 2014, CMS issued a ruling contrary to MIPPA, which stated that starting in January 2016, accessories that are used on complex rehabilitative wheelchairs will no longer be part of the fixed fee schedule, but would be subject to competitive bidding pricing, which unfortunately has the practical effect of decreasing access to the individually configured wheelchairs and accessories relied on by adults and children with disabilities. In December 2016, the 21st Century Cures Act (H.R. 34), which Congressman Zeldin cosponsored in the House, was signed into law, providing a six month delay in the application of Medicare competitive bid pricing for complex rehab power wheelchairs and accessories. Now, Congress must act to ensure that a more permanent fix is granted. Congressman Zeldin said, “I am proud to re-introduce my bill to ensure those with disabilities can access the complex rehabilitative equipment they require to meet their medical needs and function at the highest level possible. My legislation will provide a commonsense clarification to existing law to ensure that those in the Medicare program do not have to go through the difficulty of adjusting to new rules and pricing arbitrarily reached by CMS to receive equipment that they need. Providing support for those who need it the most has been a principle Americans have stood by for generations. I will continue working to get this bill passed in both the House and Senate to protect Americans dealing with the challenges from disabilities such as ALS, Cerebral Palsy, Multiple Sclerosis, Spinal Cord Injury, and many other debilitating illnesses. Americans with disabilities must always have access to the resources they need to live independently and happily.” In the 114th Congress, Congressman Zeldin’s bill (H.R. 3229), which had 146 bipartisan cosponsors, as well as a Senate companion bill (S. 2196), was referred to the House Subcommittee on Health. The legislation was fully supported by the ALS Association, Muscular Dystrophy Association, National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Paralyzed Veterans of America, VetsFirst and United Spinal Association. Last year, Congressman Zeldin testified in support of his bill at a House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee hearing on June 8, 2016. You can watch the testimony here.
03.06.2017	Washington, DC – On March 6, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) sent a letter to Dr. David Shulkin, Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), calling for a speedy replacement of Northport VAMC’s Director, Mr. Phil Moschitta, who will retire effective April 1, 2017. Congressman Zeldin requested that the VA recruit a new facility director from outside the Northport VAMC system. Congressman Zeldin said, “Over the years, I have always heard high praise from veterans across Long Island who have had nothing but a very positive experience at the Northport VA; however, there have been specific and very serious allegations that have been made to my office, which cannot be ignored. Northport VAMC’s Director Phil Moschitta will retire at the end of this month. In light of any pending investigatory matters, I respectfully submit that the most prudent course of action to replace Mr. Moschitta would be to recruit a new facility director from outside the Northport VAMC system. Northport VAMC serves the largest concentration of veterans in New York State and is critical to meeting the current healthcare needs of many in our veteran community. New, strong leadership is needed to right this ship and restore the trust that has been damaged by past events. In addition to the troubling, but not insurmountable personnel allegations that exist at Northport VAMC, they are further in need of critical infrastructure and maintenance projects, which have not been addressed by the Department. We must create a leadership system, both at Northport and throughout the entire VA system, which allows VA employees to serve veterans to the best of their abilities while holding accountable those who are not acting in the best interest of our nation’s veterans. We cannot continue to perpetuate the same mistakes that have plagued the VA for years on end. Ensuring our veterans have only the highest quality of care is one of my highest priorities in Congress.” You can view a copy of the letter here: 3_6_17_Rep. Zeldin letter to VA Secretary Shulkin.pdf
03.06.2017	Washington, DC - On Wednesday, March 1, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met in the U.S. Capitol with NY-1 members of Transport Workers Union (TWU) Local 252, located in Islandia, New York. Founded in 1934, TWU Local 252 represents over 3,700 member transit operators, school bus drivers, van drivers, matrons, paratransit operators and mechanics throughout Long Island. Pictured above on the Speaker’s Balcony, from left to right, are Theresa Hind, Denise Fleming, Debra Hagan, President of the Union; Congressman Zeldin, and Debra Randazzo.
03.06.2017	The recent threats and property crimes targeting institutions and symbols of Jewish faith demonstrate that the rising tide of anti-Semitism in the United States and globally must be combatted forcefully and decisively. While the tragedy of the Holocaust happened decades ago, we still feel the effects of its hatred and intolerance. Anti-Semitism, terror, and racism must be fought and vanquished in every form; we can never do enough to put an end to prejudice, both within our nation and around the globe. Our First Amendment protects Freedom of Religion and is one of our most precious liberties. When Americans are threatened with violence because of their free expression it is not only reprehensible, but unconstitutional as well. This liberty is a cornerstone of our freedom as Americans. Recently, a number of Jewish Community Centers (JCCs) nationally have been targeted with anonymous bomb threats made by telephone and email. These threats targeted a Long Island JCC as recently as this past week. These centers are meant to be havens where families can come to enjoy social, recreational, and educational activities, while continuing to develop their Jewish faith with members of the community in a safe and comfortable environment. Many Jewish children receive schooling in these facilities; as a parent, the thought that any child may be threatened with violence because of their faith is absolutely sickening. Additionally, there have been a number of incidents in the United States and abroad in recent weeks, months and years where sacred religious symbols have been destroyed with the intention of intimidating Jewish Americans. Jewish cemeteries, for example, in the United States and in other countries around the world are being desecrated. I recently sent a letter to Secretary of Homeland Security John Kelly, Attorney General Jeff Sessions, and FBI Director James Comey, regarding the increasing number of anti-Semitic acts, which you can read here. In the letter, I asked that, in light of these shameful attacks, the Department of Homeland Security and Department of Justice update Congress as to which specific steps are being taken to identify and prosecute those who would perpetrate these crimes against the American Jewish community. Anti-Semitism is rearing it’s ugly head on college campuses with the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) Movement, and in foreign countries and companies trying to harm the Israeli economy today. Anti-Semitism is rising at the United Nations as well where the Security Council recently passed a resolution seeking to ethnically cleanse Judea and Samaria and East Jerusalem. For the first time ever, the United Nations formally declared it a violation of international law for Jews to live in this area, which is the same land that the Macabees lived on, prayed, and fought for freedom. It is that fight celebrated on Hanukkah, which started just one day after the United Nations Security Council passed their anti-Jewish, anti-Israel resolution. Israel, our greatest friend and ally, is surrounded by terrorist groups like Hamas, Hezbollah, Al Qaeda and ISIS that would like nothing more than to wipe Israel off the map. Israel is a beacon of liberty and freedom in a very dark region of the world, and we as a nation must do everything we can to protect our ally and the Israeli people from these disparaging, divisive and dangerous tactics that threaten both their national security and ours. There must be zero tolerance for anti-Semitism in any form at home or abroad. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York. In Congress, Rep. Zeldin serves as a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus. He is one of only two Jewish Republicans in Congress.
03.04.2017	Ronkonkoma, NY - On Friday, March 3, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended a breakfast hosted by Campolo, Middleton & McCormick, LLP and the Long Island Metro Business Action as its guest speaker. At the breakfast, Congressman Zeldin answered questions on several policy areas, including healthcare, foreign policy and infrastructure. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, top center, with moderator Joe Campolo, top right, addressing the crowd.
03.03.2017	East Patchogue, NY - On Friday, March 3, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted Mobile Office Hours at the Hagerman Fire Department in East Patchogue. At the Mobile Office Hours, hundreds of NY-1 constituents were able to meet with Congressman Zeldin or a staff member to discuss any issue, including foreign affairs, healthcare, veterans’ affairs and much more. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with several NY-1 constituents following a meeting. Mobile Office Hours were originally scheduled from 10am-1pm, but Congressman Zeldin met with constituents continuously until the last NY-1 residents left after 6pm.
03.02.2017	Washington, DC - On Wednesday, March 1, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with representatives from the New York Farm Bureau (NYFB) in his Washington D.C. office to discuss high priority issues pertaining to the agriculture industry. NYFB is an organization committed to solving economic and public policy issues facing farmers within New York. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, with representatives from NYFB and NY-1 resident Robert Dolan of Deer Run Farms in Brookhaven.
03.02.2017	45 Members of Congress Also Sign Congressman Zeldin’s Letter Washington, DC - On Thursday, March 2, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, sent a letter to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, regarding the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), or Iran Nuclear Deal, to ask several questions related to the implementation of the agreement. Also signing onto Congressman Zeldin’s letter were 45 members of Congress: Rep. Trent Franks (R, AZ-2), Rep. John Faso (R, NY-19), Rep. Ann Wagner (R, MO-2), Rep. Evan Jenkins (R, WV-3), Rep. Jim Banks (R, IN-3), Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (R, PA-8), Rep. Walter Jones (R, NC-3), Rep. Jackie Walorski (R, IN-3), Rep. Ron Desantis (R, FL-6), Rep. Doug Lamborn (R, CO-5), Rep. Rodney Davis (R, Il-13), Rep. Frank LoBiondo (R, NJ-2), Rep. Dennis Ross (R, FL-15), Rep. Louie Gohmert (R, TX-1), Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R, CA-48), Rep. Lamar Smith (R, TX-21), Rep. Claudia Tenney (R, NY-22), Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R, IL-16), Rep. Brian Mast (R, FL-18), Rep. Kevin Yoder (R, KS-3), Rep. Mia Love (R, UT-4), Rep. Peter King (R, NY-2), Rep. Martha McSally (R, AZ-2), Rep. David Rouzer (R, NC-7), Rep. Andy Barr (R, KY-6), Rep. Ted Yoho (R, FL-3), Rep. Pete Sessions (R, TX-32), Rep. French Hill (R, AK-2), Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R, FL-26), Rep. Dan Donovan (R, NY-11), Rep. Steve Knight (R, CA-25), Rep. Austin Scott (R, GA-13), Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R, TX-5), Rep. Glenn Grothman (R, WI-6), Rep. Tom Emmer (R, MN-6), Rep. Elise Stefanik (R, NY-21), Rep. Lou Barletta (R, PA-11), Rep. Mimi Walters (R, CA-45), Rep. Dave Brat (R, VA-7), Rep. David Kustoff (R, TN-8), Rep. Ryan Costello (PA-6), Rep. Paul Cook (R, CA-8), Rep. Peter Roskam (R, Il-6), Rep. Susan Brooks (R, IN-5) and Rep. Leonard Lance (R, NJ-7). A copy of the letter can be viewed here: 03.01.2017 JCPOA letter to SecTillerson.pdf
03.02.2017	Washington, DC - On Wednesday, March 1, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was a guest speaker at a meeting with over 300 members of the Garden Club of America in the U.S. Capitol. Founded in 1913, Garden Club of America is a non-profit organization which has over 200 chapters throughout the nation and is dedicated to promoting environmental protection and horticulture. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with members of the Garden Club, many of whom are NY-1 residents, including Linda Fraser of Southampton and Beverly Kazickas of East Hampton.
03.01.2017	Washington DC - On Tuesday, February 28, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended President Donald Trump’s address to Congress with his gallery guest, Andrew Bongiorno, a World War II veteran and Marine from Hauppauge, New York. In the first photo, Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, with Mr. Bongiorno, left. In the second photo, Mr. Bongiorno is pictured speaking with Secretary of Health and Human Services Tom Price prior to the address, with Ambassador Nikki Haley in the background. In the third photo, Congressman Zeldin, right, is seen shaking hands and greeting President Trump, left.
02.28.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement after President Donald Trump’s address tonight in front of a Joint Session of Congress: “Tonight, President Trump, during his first Presidential address before a Joint Session of Congress, discussed many of his legislative priorities for the months and years ahead. There are many challenges facing our nation, but there are so many great ways to lift up our country by growing our economy and expanding opportunities for all Americans, all while protecting our security, which is the primary function constitutionally of our federal government. President Trump was elected last November and deserves our support to succeed, understanding that his success will be our success as Americans. I had the similar belief entering the New York State Senate in 2011 with a new Governor in our state, Andrew Cuomo, who may have been the opposite political party, but my same view applied and I spoke about it publicly then as I do now. It is ok to agree or disagree with our President, but where there is common ground that can be found, we should work together whenever, wherever possible. There is too much at stake from health care to tax reform, strengthening our military and supporting our veterans. Speaking of our veterans, it was my highest honor to have as my guest World War II veteran Andrew Bongiorno of Hauppauge. He is currently battling Stage IV cancer, but clearly has a huge heart of gold, unyielding passion for our freedoms and liberties, and the will to tackle any challenge in front of him. President Trump delivered important words tonight and I am looking forward to working with him to secure our country, grow our economy, and continue fighting for the greatest nation in the world.” You can read more about Congressman Zeldin's guest, Andrew Bongiorno, here.
02.28.2017	Washington D.C. - On Tuesday, February 28, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke at a press conference to announce the reintroduction of the Taylor Force Act (H.R. 1164). This legislation would withhold economic assistance to the Palestinian Authority until it publicly condemns acts of violence against American and Israeli citizens, and has terminated payments to any individual who has been imprisoned for acts of terrorism, as well as to any individual who died committing such acts of terrorism, including to a family member of such individuals. Congressman Zeldin was an original cosponsor of this legislation, which was named after Taylor Force, a U.S. Army veteran who was brutally murdered by a Palestinian terrorist during an educational tour in Israel in March of 2016. Pictured above, from left to right, are Senator Lindsay Graham (R, SC), Senator Roy Blunt (R, MO), the Force parents, Congressman Zeldin, Senator Tom Cotton (R, AR), and Representative Doug Lamborn (R, CO-5).
02.27.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, released the following statement today in response to reported threats that were received at Jewish Community Centers (JCCs) in Plainview, New York, and Staten Island, New York: Congressman Zeldin said, “There has been an alarming rise in anonymous bomb threats made by telephone and email targeting Jewish Community Centers across our nation, including most recently on Long Island and in other parts of New York today. These crimes must be immediately and fully investigated and all perpetrators must be prosecuted. There must be zero tolerance of any kind for this rising tide of anti-Semitism in the United States and abroad.” Last week, on February 22, 2017, Congressman Zeldin sent a letter to Secretary of Homeland Security John Kelly, Attorney General Jeff Sessions, and FBI Director James Comey, regarding the increasing number of anti-Semitic acts, including the targeting of dozens of JCCs across the country that have received bomb threats from anonymous callers, as well as property damage of Jewish cemeteries. Read more here.
02.26.2017	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced that he has selected Andrew Bongiorno of Hauppauge, New York, a WWII veteran, to be his guest at the President’s Address at a joint session of Congress this upcoming Tuesday, February, 28, 2017. Mr. Bongiorno joined the Marine Corps at the age of 17. He served from 1945 – 1949, during the last year of WWII and the following three years in the Pacific, where he was stationed in China, Guam, Philippines and Pearl Harbor. Throughout his time in service, Mr. Bongiorno served in the infantry and rose to the rank of Sergeant. After returning home to New York, Mr. Bongiorno joined the Marine Reserve Air Wing in Brooklyn, NY, where he served for four more years. Unfortunately, last summer, Mr. Bongiorno was diagnosed with Stage IV Stomach cancer. He has been undergoing cancer treatment at Georgetown University Lombardi Cancer Center. Congressman Zeldin said, “I am honored to invite Mr. Bongiorno to attend President Trump’s Address as my special guest. Mr. Bongiorno is a true patriot and fighter, and he can never be thanked enough for his service to our country as a member of our greatest generation. I look forward to the President’s Address next week as he outlines his agenda over the next four years.”
02.24.2017	Patchogue, NY – On February 23, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted a Telephone Town Hall, which is a modern way to bring a town hall directly to the constituents’ home and the Congressman has been doing these for years approximately quarterly since he was in the State Senate. Telephone Town Halls allow the Congressman to productively reach the maximum amount of constituents who are interested in constructive dialogue. Approximately 100,000 homes were called and constituents on the call were able to ask the questions. 9,116 constituents participated in the call. You can listen to the audio file here.
02.23.2017	Hauppauge, NY - On Wednesday, February 22, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) toured Mini Graphics, Inc. Established in 1982, Mini Graphics, Inc. is an industry leader in the printing of pharmaceutical literature. Throughout the tour, Congressman Zeldin was able to view their operation and see the quality controls which go into the printing of this literature. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above reviewing pharmaceutical literature with James DeLise, Chief Financial Officer of Mini Graphics, Inc.
02.23.2017	Riverhead, NY - On Wednesday, February 22, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with members of the League of Women Voters of the Hamptons in his Riverhead office to discuss various topics. Pictured above, from left to right, are Glorian Berk, Co-President of the chapter; Judi Roth, Chair of the Education Committee; Congressman Zeldin; Carol Mellor, Co-Chair of Voter Services; and Martha Potter; Member of the Board of Directors.
02.23.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-Chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, sent a letter on February 22, 2017 to Secretary of Homeland Security John Kelly, Attorney General Jeff Sessions, and FBI Director James Comey, regarding the latest rise of anti-semitic acts, including the targeting of dozens of Jewish Community Centers (JCCs) across the country that have received bomb threats from anonymous callers. You can view a copy of the letter here: JCC threat letter.pdfCongressman Zeldin said, “Today, decades after the Holocaust, there remains a rising tide of anti-Semitism across our country and world. There has been an alarming rise in the number of reprehensible acts against the American Jewish community, specifically the anonymous bomb threats made by telephone and email against Jewish Community Centers across our nation. Additionally, there have been many reported incidents of property crimes carried out with the intent to desecrate or destroy sacred religious symbols, which ultimately attempt to intimidate Jewish Americans. As key leaders responsible for our national security, the Department of Homeland Security and Department of Justice must work to stop these acts of violence and hatred based on religion or race. These departments should also update Congress as to which specific steps are being taken to identify and prosecute the perpetrators for violations against the American Jewish community. None of us can say or do enough until terror, anti-Semitism, prejudice, hatred and racism is eliminated in every form.”
02.21.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) re-introduced his bill to protect Long Island fishermen as the Local Fishing Access Act (H.R. 1195). Last Congress, this bill passed the House with unanimous bipartisan support as H.R. 3070, the EEZ Clarification Act. The Local Fishing Access Act would reform the federal law that bans striped bass fishing in the Block Island transit zone, which are federal waters between Montauk, New York, and Block Island, Rhode Island. The Local Fishing Access Act will provide Long Island anglers with relief from confusing regulations. It will also allow Long Island’s fishermen to once again enjoy commercial and recreational striped bass fishing in these local waters just like they do in adjacent state controlled waters. Between the New York State maritime boundary, which ends three miles off of Montauk Point and Rhode Island state waters, which begin three miles off of Block Island, there is a small area of federally controlled water that is considered part of the “Exclusive Economic Zone,” or EEZ. The EEZ, which extends up to 200 miles from the coast, are waters patrolled by the Coast Guard, where the United States has exclusive jurisdiction over fisheries and other natural resources. The unique geography of the region creates this small patch of EEZ between two areas of state controlled water. Striped bass fishing has been banned in the EEZ since 1990. Meanwhile, commercial and recreational fishing for dozens of species are permitted in the EEZ, further adding to the confusion of local anglers. Congressman Zeldin said, “One of the top legislative priorities of Long Island fishermen is the need to clarify the federal regulations regarding striped bass fishing in the small area of federally controlled waters between Montauk Point and Block Island. The Local Fishing Access Act would eliminate the regulatory confusion hurting the hardworking, responsible men and women of the region’s struggling fishing communities, while freeing up Coast Guard and other law enforcement resources that are diverted from more critical missions, such as national security and vessel safety. Fishing is an important industry and way of life on Long Island, and Congress should do everything possible to ensure business owners can survive. I will continue working to get this bill passed and signed into law to provide common sense relief for our local fishermen.” The Local Fishing Access Act (H.R. 1195) has been referred to the House Natural Resources Committee. In December 2015, the Chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee, Congressman Rob Bishop (R, UT-1), co-hosted a hearing with Congressman Zeldin in Riverhead, NY where he was able to hear first-hand the concerns of Long Island fishermen including access to striped bass fishing.
02.20.2017	Washington, DC - On Friday, February 17, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with members of the Port Authority Police Benevolent Association (PBA) in his Washington D.C. office. Topics of discussion included recent security issues at local airports and the Checkpoint Safety Act (H.R. 550), legislation which Congressman Zeldin cosponsors to improve security at airport checkpoints. Pictured above, from left to right, are Steve Ekizian, Treasurer of the Port Authority PBA; Congressman Zeldin; and Frank Conti, the First Vice President of the Port Authority PBA.
02.20.2017	In the first part of this two part op-ed, I discussed my local efforts to improve security, the economy, and support for our veterans and law enforcement in the First Congressional District. While these are some of my highest priorities in 2017, there are still a number of other important areas where we can advance the direction of our district in the coming years. In this second part of my two part op-ed, I will focus on the education, infrastructure, healthcare, and environmental priorities facing our district. There are so many ways we can improve the quality of education for Long Island’s students. This Congress, I am reintroducing the Student Testing Improvement and Accountability Act to reduce testing to pre-No Child Left Behind levels and shift the focus from testing to teaching in our Long Island classrooms. I also remain committed to advancing legislation to boost Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) programs to prepare students in our communities for jobs in the 21st Century. We are so fortunate to have a vibrant science community on Long Island with centers such as Brookhaven National Laboratory and Stony Brook University. In response to the student debt crisis, I will reintroduce the Earnings Contingent Education Loans (ExCEL) Act to replace the current broken student loan system with an individualized loan repayment program tailored to our students’ needs. I will also be working hard to expand Pell Grants for higher education. A recent study has shown that the average graduate in New York has over $32,000 in student debt; this crisis must be swiftly addressed. Long Island’s infrastructure is in critical need of continued support. Last Congress, I got my Safe Bridges Act signed into law as part of a five year, fully funded highway bill. Under the Safe Bridges Act, over 80 bridges and overpasses across the First Congressional District are eligible once again for federal funding. I will continue to drive funding from this bill to local infrastructure projects, such as Hospital Road Bridge. We must also modernize and stabilize the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) to better help Long Islanders threatened by storms and floods, as well as to encourage mitigation and improve transparency within the NFIP. Air travel is very important to many Long Islanders, and my office and I will be working with local airports like MacArthur and Gabreski to improve travel options within the district, but we also must mitigate aircraft noise over the East End, especially for residents of the North Fork. We must also improve health care on Long Island as a top priority. Obamacare has been nothing short of a disaster for countless hardworking families and our economy. This flawed law has resulted in higher deductibles, higher premiums, cancelled policies, less choices and lost doctors, among many other challenges. We must repeal and replace Obamacare with a new reality that will work better and make healthcare more affordable for Long Islanders, while continuing to cover those with pre-existing conditions and allowing children to stay on their parent's policy. I will also be working to ensure facilities such as Stony Brook University and Brookhaven National Laboratory have the funding necessary to continue to advance life saving research and technologies. Additionally, here in Suffolk County, our communities and families have been severely impacted by the rise of prescription drug abuse and the growing heroin crisis. Last year, Congress passed the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, or CARA, which was signed into law, to help combat the heroin and opioid epidemic through community-based education, prevention, treatment and recovery programs. I will continue working with local elected officials, law enforcement, health professionals, community groups, parents, concerned residents and those in recovery, to discuss and develop a more localized solution to address this crisis by increasing treatment and recovery services, education, and stopping the influx of illegal substances. Our environment and natural resources are so important to our life, culture, and economy here on Long Island. All Americans should have access to clean air and water, which is why I have been working tirelessly over the past two years to protect our natural treasures. I am a member of several environmental congressional caucuses, including the Climate Solutions Caucus that explores policy options to address our changing climate. It is critical that we continue to protect Long Island’s waterways through efforts to reduce nitrogen pollution, improve local wastewater treatment infrastructure, and utilize new septic technology, with the goal of clean water for all. One of my highest priorities in Congress is to pursue a better direction for Plum Island. This island is cherished by the local community for its abundance in cultural, historical, ecological, and natural resources. I will continue working to advance my bill, that passed the House last Congress, to ensure continued research, public access and permanent preservation for Plum Island. Working with the Army Corps of Engineers, we will also advance essential dredging and shoreline projects, including the Fire Island to Montauk Point (FIMP) Project. We have made some great progress in the past few years advancing local priorities, but there remains important work still ahead. I look forward to taking on these challenges in the coming months and years. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York. In Congress, Rep. Zeldin serves on two House Committees: Financial Services and Foreign Affairs.
02.17.2017	Washington, DC - On Wednesday, February 15, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with leadership from the Long Island State Veterans’ Home in his Washington D.C. office to discuss veterans’ legislation. Located in Stony Brook, the Long Island State Veterans’ Home provides high quality care and support services for veterans, including rehabilitation and adult day healthcare. Pictured above, from left to right, are Jean Brand, Director of Adult Day Healthcare; Fred Sganga, Executive Director; Congressman Zeldin; Jonathan Spier, Deputy Executive Director; Ojeaga Russel; and Paul Maguire, Associate Executive Director for Support Services.
02.17.2017	Washington, DC - On Tuesday, February 14, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke on the House floor in honor of the 70th anniversary of Brookhaven National Laboratory (BNL). Congressman Zeldin discussed several of Brookhaven’s most important projects, such as the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider (RHIC), National Synchrotron Light Source II (NSLS II), and Brookhaven Linac Isotope Producer (BLIP), as well as how this scientific research aggressively pursues cures to illnesses, protects national security, and increases energy independence in the United States. You can watch Congressman Zeldin’s floor speech here.
02.16.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), along with Democrat Co-Lead Congresswoman Kathleen Rice (D, NY-4), re-introduced bipartisan legislation (H.R. 1005) to help severely disabled veterans on Long Island and across the country, by expanding access to Adult Day Health Care for disabled veterans who need extra assistance and special attention in their day to day lives. Service members who are 70% or more disabled from a service connected injury often require significant assistance from others in order to carry out basic everyday tasks. Many times, the burden falls on family members of disabled veterans; some veterans may even need to reside in institutionalized facilities to receive the daily assistance of a trained medical professional. Both of these options can create financial and emotional hardships. One program that is currently available to help disabled veterans is Adult Day Health Care, which can be offered at State Veterans Homes across the United States. However, the expense of the program is often times directly shouldered by the veteran and their family, which significantly limits the number of veterans who can enroll. The program is also only currently offered at three facilities in the United States; one being the Long Island State Veterans Home, which is located in the First Congressional District of New York, in Stony Brook. Congressman Zeldin’s bill would define the Adult Day Health Care program as a reimbursable treatment option through the Department of Veterans Affairs, which would guarantee that all severely disabled veterans, those who are 70% or more service connected disabled, are able to access Adult Day Health Care at no cost to them. The bill would also help expand the program, which could be offered at any of the 153 State Veterans Homes (SVH) across the country. Congressman Zeldin said, “Passing this bill is an important way that we can help expand care for disabled veterans on Long Island and across our country. By providing disabled veterans with access to Adult Day Health Care, we can ensure that all veterans receive the best and most efficient outpatient services to provide them with the assistance and special attention that they need in their day to day lives, while still allowing them to maintain their independence. Adult Day Health Care programs allow veterans to lead a much more fulfilling life, and also helps keep families together and strong, while simultaneously reducing overall healthcare costs for the veteran. I will continue the fight in Congress to expand Adult Day Health Care for our disabled veterans to ensure that all veterans receive the proper treatment and care they deserve after fighting for our country.” “Disabled veterans have sacrificed and suffered for our country, and we have a duty to ensure they have the care and support they need to overcome the challenges they live with every day as a result of their service,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “Expanding access to high-quality, individualized day-to-day care will give disabled veterans more independence, reduce health care costs, and significantly ease the burden on family caregivers. I’m proud to support this bipartisan bill and will keep working to get it passed.” Last year, Congressman Zeldin’s bill (H.R. 2460) received strong bipartisan support in Congress, with over 50 cosponsors, including the entire Long Island Congressional Delegation. The bill passed the House unanimously with strong bipartisan support. The bill also received support from various Veteran Service Organizations (VSOs), including the American Legion, AMVETS and Disabled American Veterans (DAV).
02.16.2017	Washington, DC - On Monday, February 13, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met in the U.S. Capitol with Montauk and Stony Brook Residents who are members of the Parent Project for Muscular Dystrophy. This nonprofit organization is dedicated to finding a cure for Duchenne muscular dystrophy, a genetic disorder diagnosed in childhood which causes a progressive loss in strength and is fatal in most cases. Pictured above, from left to right, are Anastasia Portnoy and Harry Merzin of Stony Brook, Congressman Zeldin, and Elizabeth McCarron, Julia Stavola, and Grace Lightcap of Montauk.
02.15.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement today on the Russian spy ship that was spotted off the coast of Long Island: “Reports have stated that a Russian spy ship was spotted just south of Montauk and that this latest activity is reportedly consistent with, but further north than, the ship's past activity. My office has requested more information from officials. I will continue to monitor the situation closely and I will share updates as we can. Russia’s increased aggression is a direct threat. Vladimir Putin aspires to be Vladimir the Great and probably would love to put the U.S.S.R. back together again if he could. Russia is our adversary, meddling in ways globally that are putting American service members and the security of the free world at risk.”
02.14.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, released the following statement today regarding the upcoming meeting taking place tomorrow between President Donald Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Congressman Zeldin met yesterday with Vice President Mike Pence in the U.S. Capitol to discuss this important topic: “There is no greater friend and reliable ally to the United States than Israel. It’s essential that we remain committed to building a stronger relationship with Israel, especially with the turmoil and unrest we see in the Middle East and around the world. Though the bond between our two countries will always remain strong, there is still so much room for growth in this relationship, especially under new American leadership. Improvements in policy should include moving the U.S. embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem and formally recognizing Jerusalem as the unquestionable capital of Israel. The United States should pledge to veto any future anti-Israel, anti-Jewish U.N. resolutions, like the Security Council resolution that passed at the end of this past December. Without doubt, the United States should stand shoulder to shoulder with innocent Israelis when they are targeted by Palestinian terrorists. We must hold the Palestinians accountable for inciting violence and financial rewarding terrorism, including the withholding of U.S. taxpayer funds to the Palestinians while this illicit activity continues. When it comes to protecting our interests at home and abroad, the United States must pursue a better and more consistent foreign policy: one that strengthens our relationships with our allies and treats our adversaries as our adversaries. The United States' position towards Iran should be repostured from a position of weakness to a position of strength in order to prevent this challenge from growing. We also must move in a better direction to try to help stabilize Syria. President Trump has already indicated a willingness to do so. As for discussion on a two-state solution, a viable two state solution includes not only Israel's willingness to recognize the Palestinians' right to exist, but also the Palestinians recognizing Israel's right to exist. If an election was held today among the Palestinians, Hamas would win. More and more of the Palestinian leadership is being influenced by elements that will not rest until Israel is wiped off the map. I believe Israel is willing to negotiate away large swaths of land to achieve long term peace. Unfortunately, when I met with Prime Minister Hamdallah in Ramallah in 2015, he said in no uncertain terms that it is non-negotiable that they would ever recognize Israel as a Jewish state. I believe that President Trump and Prime Minister Netanyahu would prefer a two state solution and hopefully they will be candid about the present day viability of that pursuit. Some other areas of common concern that must be addressed are the Iran Nuclear Deal, outreach to Muslim nations in the Middle East that share concern about Iran's bad activities, settlement activity, U.S.' continued financial support towards Israel's missile defense program and other important causes, possible bilateral trade negotiations, the rising BDS movement in the United States and globally, plans to work together to defeat terror, and lessons learned regarding energy development, technology, intelligence sharing, and advancements in homeland security capabilities.”
02.14.2017	Washington, DC - On Monday, February 13, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, met with Vice President Mike Pence in the U.S. Capitol. Congressman Zeldin and Vice President Pence discussed the United States’ relationship with Israel, in anticipation of the meeting taking place this week between President Donald Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, center, just prior to the discussion with Vice President Pence, left.
02.10.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, was appointed by House Speaker Paul Ryan (R, WI-1) to serve on the United States Holocaust Memorial Council, which was established by Congress in 1980 to lead the nation in commemorating the Holocaust. The United States Holocaust Memorial Council consists of 55 members appointed by the President, five members from the U.S. House of Representatives, five members from the U.S. Senate, and three members from the Departments of Education, Interior, and State. Congressman Zeldin said, “We must forever remember the millions of innocent people who were senselessly and tragically murdered during the Holocaust, which was one of the darkest periods in human history, and stands as a solemn reminder of the dangers of hatred, ignorance, and racism in every form. During the Holocaust, Nazis targeted the entire Jewish race for extermination and murdered several million innocent Jews as well as millions of other innocent people. We must continue to share the stories of those who survived the Holocaust and those who did not. Their lives must be honored and memorialized, and never again can we allow history to repeat itself. “The Holocaust was one of the darkest times in our world's history. Millions of innocent lives were taken, including millions of innocent Jews targeted for who they were. Lee is someone who has consistently shown his commitment to ensuring history never repeats itself—and I am honored to appoint him to the United States Holocaust Memorial Council. As one of two Jewish Republicans in Congress, Lee’s leadership will be an important addition to this group,” said Speaker Paul Ryan.
02.09.2017	Part 1 of a 2 Part Op-ed Written by Congressman Lee Zeldin (NY-01) The First Congressional District of New York is certainly one of the very best Congressional Districts in America. While a new president and new Congress debate legislation and other policy with a national and international focus, there are also some local priorities that are very important to us all as well here on the east end of Long Island. In this first of a two part op-ed, I will highlight some security, economic, veterans and law enforcement priorities impacting NY-1. A top priority must always be to secure our communities from threats posed by dangerous individuals and illegal and abused narcotics. We have very real, ongoing homeland security threats within our own borders and we, as a community, must remain ever vigilant. Additionally, from a security perspective, curbing the drug epidemic in Suffolk County includes targeted enforcement to stop the flow of illegal narcotics into our country to keep drugs out of our communities and off of our streets. Much more can be done to keep our district safe, and we must ensure law enforcement personnel have every tool necessary to protect us. We must also address the serious risks posed to Long Island by the rising threat of cyber attacks. Many aspects of life have become computerized and without a substantial boost to cybersecurity capabilities, our local businesses, individuals, and government infrastructure are left vulnerable. We must also continue to pursue solutions that help grow our middle class and improve the business climate within our district. The high cost of living on Long Island is one of the most commonly shared challenges we face. We must especially do everything possible to make Long Island more affordable for our seniors and young families. This can be assisted through tax relief and efforts to shut-down job killing red tape, such as the Regulations From the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act, which has recently passed the House. When businesses grow and stay local, they will create more good paying, private sector jobs, expand the middle class, and improve liquidity throughout our local economy. This includes supporting our local farmers. The agriculture industry is such an important part of our life and culture here on Long Island that has been negatively impacted by red tape, which is why I’ve supported legislation, such as the Young Farmers Success Act. This bipartisan bill would add farmers to the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program, which would help our local family farms and the young farmers in our district where the next generation has to choose between taking over the family business or paying their student loans. I’ve also been outspoken about the need to repeal the death tax, which causes one-third of all family-owned small businesses to liquidate after the death of the owner. It is also critical that we improve the management of our fisheries by making necessary reforms to our current fishing laws. We must reinvigorate Long Island’s tradition of saltwater fishing by clarifying federal regulations and reducing unneeded restrictions. Additionally, the local science community, including Brookhaven National Laboratory, Stony Brook University, and other facilities, is an important economic factor and serves as some of the largest employers within our district. Efforts to secure funding to continue their great research also serves as a boost to our local economy. Fighting for our veterans and first responders is also a priority for our district. Suffolk County has the highest population of veterans by county in New York State, as well as one of the highest in the entire country. These brave men and women deserve nothing but the highest quality of life and care. Veterans across New York are now able to receive assistance coping with PTSD and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) through the PFC Joseph P. Dwyer Veterans Peer Support Program, a peer-to-peer support program for veterans I established while serving in the State Senate. We must also do more to ensure every veteran has a roof over their head. No veteran should ever be left homeless. There are also various issues at the VA facility in Northport that need to be addressed. Reforms at the VA from the national level to local level will help ensure no veteran is ever underserved. The VA must be held accountable to Congress, the media and American public, but most importantly, to our veterans. I will also be working closely with my colleagues to ensure 9/11 first responders, many of whom live in our district, receive timely and proper delivery of health care for illnesses caused as a result of their selfless efforts at Ground Zero in the weeks and months that followed the attacks. Our security, economy, veterans and law enforcement are some of the highest priorities to focus our local efforts on in 2017 and beyond. While there has been great past progress to write about, what is most important is to identify and tackle the many ways to do even more with each day and opportunity ahead. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York. In Congress, Rep. Zeldin serves on two House Committees: Financial Services and Foreign Affairs.
02.09.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced that he re-introduced three of his bills to help veterans, including legislation to expand the PFC Joseph P. Dwyer Veteran Peer Support Program to the national level (H.R. 897), the Flexible VA Loan Guarantee Act (H.R. 815), which would eliminate the loan limit or the “maximum guarantee amount” of a loan that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) can guarantee for a veteran, and the Veterans Estate Transfer to Survivors Act, or VETS Act (H.R. 814), which would require the VA to pay accrued benefits to the estate of a deceased veteran. Congressman Zeldin re-introduced H.R. 897, to expand nationally the PFC Joseph P. Dwyer Veteran Peer Support Program, or “Dwyer Program,” a peer-to-peer support program for veterans suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI). The Dwyer Program was created in honor of PFC Joseph Dwyer, a Iraq War veteran from Mount Sinai, NY who sadly lost his battle with PTSD. Congressman Zeldin said, “Expanding nationally the Dwyer Program, which is currently operating in both Nassau and Suffolk counties, eventually to all counties in the U.S., will ensure that every veteran can have access to a peer-to-peer support group. With the VA reporting that an estimated 22 veterans a day commit suicide, this national expansion is long overdue. This bipartisan legislation has received support from the entire Long Island delegation in both the 114th and now the 115th Congress, and I look forward to continuing to work with my House colleagues across the aisle to advance this bill to ensure all veterans across this great nation receive the proper treatment, care and support that they need and deserve.” The Flexible VA Loan Guarantee Act (H.R. 815), which Congressman Zeldin also reintroduced, would eliminate the loan limit or the “maximum guarantee amount” of a loan that the VA can guarantee for a veteran, providing the VA with the flexibility to determine the appropriate limit for all veterans' loans. “Providing the VA with the flexibility they need to determine the appropriate limit for veterans’ loans will be extremely helpful for veterans who live in areas with a high cost of real estate, such as Long Island,” Congressman Zeldin continued. “I have heard from many Suffolk County veterans concerned about securing VA home loans given the limits under current law. The Flexible VA Loan Guarantee Act is a commonsense VA reform that has bipartisan support to help countless veterans across the country.” Last year, the Flexible VA Loan Guarantee Act was packaged into H.R. 3016, the Veterans Employment, Education, and Healthcare Improvement Act, which passed the House of Representatives with unanimous bipartisan support. The Veterans Estate Transfer to Survivors Act, or VETS Act (H.R. 814), another bipartisan bill that Congressman Zeldin re-introduced, would require the VA to pay certain benefits that were earned by a veteran to the veteran's estate. Under current law, if a veteran passes away while the VA is still reviewing a claim, the VA no longer has to award the earned benefits. Currently, only a veteran's spouse, minor child, or dependent parent(s) are eligible to collect the accrued benefits. By adding the estate to the current list of beneficiaries, adult children could now also receive the benefits earned, should there be no other qualifying family members. The VETS Act, which was amended into the Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2015 (H.R. 675), passed the House of Representatives last year with unanimous bipartisan support. “The VETS Act is another commonsense reform to VA benefit payouts that will help veterans and their families on Long Island and across the country, ensuring our veteran families, who rightfully earned and deserve their benefits, actually receive their benefits, even after the veteran passes away. There is so much more that Congress can be doing to improve the quality of life for our veterans. I look forward to passing these bills to bring much-needed support and assistance to our veterans and their families across the United States,” Congressman Zeldin concluded.
02.06.2017	Washington, DC – On Saturday, February 4, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), spoke at the 13th Annual Longwood Legislative Breakfast. The event was held at Longwood Middle School, and was attended by representatives from over 30 school districts across Suffolk County. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above answering a question from a student at the public forum.
02.06.2017	Wading River, NY - On Saturday, February 4, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Mastic Beach Ambulance Installation Dinner at East Wind Caterers in Wading River. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above speaking at the dinner.
02.03.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R - NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, just released the following statement in support of new sanctions just announced on Iran's Ballistic Missile Program and Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC): “The party's over for Iranian leadership. We have a new President and Congress dedicated to a better direction that refuses to prop up the current Iranian regime. Iran is the largest state sponsor of terrorism. The sanctioning of individuals and companies affiliated with Iran's Ballistic Missile Program and IRGC will assist with efforts to reduce Iran's destabilizing activities, which included a missile test just this week that violated a UN resolution, as well as their continued work to overthrow foreign governments, pledge to wipe Israel off the map, chanting Death to America in their streets, and so much more. We need to pursue a stronger, more consistent foreign policy, which strengthens our relationships with our allies and treats our adversaries as our adversaries. Our enemies do not respect weakness, they only respect strength. We cannot be silent, not because we want war, but because we want to prevent it.” This week, Congressman Zeldin joined with Congressmen Peter J. Roskam (R, IL-6), Leonard Lance (R, NJ-7), and Doug Lamborn (R, CO-5), co-chairs of the House Republican Israel Caucus, to introduce the Iran Nonnuclear Sanctions Act of 2017 (H.R.808), which targets the Islamic Republic’s support for terrorism, human rights abuses, and ballistic missile program, and restores sanctions to hold Iran accountable. You can read a copy of the bill text here.
02.02.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R - NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, joined with Congressmen Peter J. Roskam (R, IL-6), Leonard Lance (R, NJ-7), and Doug Lamborn (R, CO-5), co-chairs of the House Republican Israel Caucus, to introduce the Iran Nonnuclear Sanctions Act of 2017 (H.R.808), which targets the Islamic Republic’s support for terrorism, human rights abuses, and ballistic missile program, and restores sanctions to hold Iran accountable. Introduction of this bill comes days after U.S. officials reported that Iran carried out a medium-range ballistic missile test in violation of a United Nations Security Council resolution. You can read a copy of the bill text here: Iran Nonnuclear Sanctions Act of 2017.pdf The Iran Nonnuclear Sanctions Act includes language to: Impose new sanctions against Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) and Mahan Air, an Iranian airline that has helped the IRGC to spread terrorism and militancy; Create a new Treasury Department watchlist for entities in which the IRGC has an ownership interest of less than 25 percent; Provides states authorization to divest from people who engage in investment with the IRGC or IRGC-owned companies; Expand current sanctions and imposes new sanctions against Iran for its egregious human rights abuses, while also mandating full transparency to Congress on all American citizens detained or kidnapped by Iran and U.S. government efforts to free them; Impose new sanctions against persons who knowingly aid Iran's ballistic missile program; Mandate new sanctions against entities owned 25 percent or greater or controlled by Iran's key ballistic missile organizations, including the Aerospace Industries Organization, the Shahid Hemmat Industrial Group, or the Shahid Bakeri Industrial Group; Require a presidential certification that persons listed in U.N. Security Council Resolutions are not engaged in activities related to ballistic missiles and requires the imposition of sanctions if that certification cannot be made; Impose sanctions on persons involved in sectors of Iran's economy who support, directly or indirectly, Iran's ballistic program; and Codify current prohibitions against Iran's direct and indirect access to the U.S. financial system, while also streamlining and strengthening the requirements for the president to remove Iran or any other country from the state sponsors of terrorism list. Congressman Zeldin said, “The United States and its allies must hold Iran accountable for its behavior and address all of the Iranians’ other very destabilizing activities, which included a missile test just this week that violated a UN resolution. Iran is the largest state sponsor of terrorism, actively working to overthrow foreign governments, while pledging to wipe Israel off the map and chanting Death to America in their streets. We must also correct the flawed Iran Nuclear Agreement to prevent Iran from developing or acquiring a nuclear weapon. We need to pursue a stronger, more consistent foreign policy, which strengthens our relationships with our relationships with our allies and treats our adversaries as our adversaries.” U.S. Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL), Todd Young (R-IN), and John Cornyn (R-TX) introduced similar legislation in the United States Senate, the Iran Non-nuclear Sanctions Act (S.227). You can view a copy of the bill text here.
02.02.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R - NY-1) announced today that the Postal Service Reform Act of 2017 (H.R. 756), bipartisan legislation to restore the financial solvency and improve the governance of the United States Postal Service (USPS) in order to ensure the efficient and affordable nationwide delivery of mail, and for other purposes, was re-introduced in the 115th Congress this week by a group of bipartisan House Oversight and Government Reform Committee members, including Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R, UT-3) and Ranking Member Elijah Cummings (D, MD-7). Within this bipartisan bill, Congressman Zeldin secured language that would mandate the hamlets of Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton, in the Town of Southampton, be assigned a new, unique zip code. The proposal, which can be found under Sec. 211 on page 89, states that upon this legislation being signed into law, the three communities of Flanders, Northampton, and Riverside in the Town of Southampton, New York, will receive one unique ZIP code no later than 270 days after the date of enactment of this Act. You can read the bill text here. Since entering Congress in 2015, Congressman Zeldin has been trying to work with the USPS to secure a new zip code for Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton. According to research initiated by the concerned residents of these hamlets, there are currently 18 identical street names and 32 similar street names - and possibly more - that are shared between these Southampton hamlets and Riverhead Town. This causes a number of issues in the local community and makes things very confusing for postal carriers, which leads to mail and packages being delivered to the wrong address, and sometimes even being routed as far away as Flanders, New Jersey. Furthermore, sometimes these packages aren’t able to be delivered, with packages frequently being marked as “return to sender” or “address unknown.” In August 2015, Congressman Zeldin sent a letter to the Postmaster officially requesting that the hamlets of Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton, be assigned their own new, unique zip code in order to make them distinguishable from Riverhead Town. USPS, which denied the initial request that Congressman Zeldin then appealed, has since been unresponsive. With USPS unresponsive, Congressman Zeldin has been working in Congress to secure a legislative proposal to address this issue. Congressman Zeldin said, “I am pleased to announce that the Postal Service Reform Act of 2017, which would create a new, unique zip code for the hamlets of Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton, was reintroduced in the House this week. Securing a new zip code for these three hamlets has been an effort that I have been working on since taking office. I will continue working closely with House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz who came to Flanders last year to hear firsthand the concerns of those impacted in our community. Chairman Chaffetz’s committee has jurisdiction over the United States Postal Service, and I thank him for his commitment to addressing this issue. Passage of the Postal Service Reform Act of 2017 is a priority. I will continue advocating for Congress to advance this legislation. This is an effort that residents, local elected officials, and community organizations have been working on for many years.” Chairman Chaffetz said, “The problems faced by Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton were expressed to me during my visit to the townships last year. I applaud the efforts of Rep. Zeldin in working to fix an issue that is so important to the people of New York’s first congressional district. I look forward to working with him to see the Postal Service Reform Act become law and bring a unique ZIP Code to these communities." Last year, in July 2016, the Postal Service Reform Act of 2016 (H.R. 5714) was introduced in the House by Chairman Chaffetz. The bill was passed out of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform on July 12, 2016. Last year, Congressman Zeldin supported another piece of legislation, H.R. 6303, which was also introduced by Chairman Chaffetz and would also create a new, unique zip code for the hamlets of Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton. This bill passed the House on November 16, 2016. The legislation was blocked in the Senate at the end of the year by one of the Senators.
02.02.2017	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, February 1, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, met in his Washington, DC office with Yoav Kisch, member of the Israeli Knesset, to discuss possible future paths towards peace in and around Israel. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, with Yoav Kisch, left.
02.01.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, issued a statement today regarding the nationwide targeting of Jewish Community Centers with bomb threats. Just yesterday, at least 17 Jewish Community Centers around the country received bomb threats from anonymous callers. Congressman Zeldin said, “Americans, Jewish and non-Jewish alike, stand united with the passionate desire to ensure the safety and security of all Jewish Community Centers being targeted by bomb threats from anonymous callers. We must be vigilant, but not live in fear. I applaud our members of law enforcement for their tireless efforts to investigate these shameful and unlawful attempts to threaten Jewish Americans. Yesterday’s events took place just after International Holocaust Remembrance Day, a day when we come together to remember the lives of millions of Jews and other innocent victims. Every day, we must recommit ourselves to never back down in the fight against terror, anti-Semitism, prejudice, hatred and racism in any form.” Congressman Zeldin is one of only two Jewish Republicans currently serving in the United States Congress.
02.01.2017	Washington, DC - On Tuesday, January 31, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, met with His Majesty King Abdullah II ibn Al-Hussein of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. Topics of discussion included the Syrian conflict, Israel, the threat of Islamic terror, and the United States’ role in the Middle East, among other topics. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with King Abdullah II ibn Al-Hussein, right, and his wife, Queen Rania Al-Abdullah, center.
01.31.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R - NY-1) announced today that he has joined the Bipartisan Working Group, a group of Republican and Democratic members of Congress who are dedicated to working together to advance bipartisan legislation and foster dialogue between both sides of the aisle. The group requires an invitation to join. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “In Congress, I have always been willing to work with absolutely anyone to better our community, state and nation. As a member of the Bipartisan Working Group, I will continue working to advance my New Era of American Strength agenda, which includes protecting America’s security at home and abroad, helping grow our economy and create more good paying jobs, supporting our veterans and first responders, improving the quality of education, repairing our nation’s infrastructure, improving healthcare in America and safeguarding our environment. There are many opportunities on any given day to find common ground among members and advance legislation and other initiatives to improve the direction of our country. I look forward to working together with my House colleagues on the Bipartisan Working Group this Congress.” The Bipartisan Working Group, which has over 25 members, meets every week that members are in session in Washington, DC. In the 114th Congress, the Bipartisan Working Group's legislation included the Veterans Health Administration Management Improvement Act (H.R. 502), Heroin and Prescription Opioid Abuse Prevention, Education, and Enforcement Act (H.R. 2805), and Housing Assistance Reform Act (H.R. 2953).
01.30.2017	East Patchogue, NY - On Saturday, January 28, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was awarded Man of the Year from the Rotary Club of Shirley and the Mastics. The event was held at Sunset Harbour in East Patchogue. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above left, with his daughters, Mikayla and Arianna, and New York State Assemblyman Dean Murray.
01.29.2017	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement providing an update today on Stony Brook University graduate student, Vahideh Rasekhi, who has been detained at JFK Airport: “My office and I have been directly involved in the case regarding the Stony Brook University graduate who is being detained at JFK Airport after returning to the United States from a visit to Iran. We have received confirmation that she should be released this afternoon. We will continue to monitor this situation closely to ensure that she is released." Lawful permanent residents and green card holders should not be adversely impacted by President Trump’s Executive Order. Additionally, the Executive Order specifically states regarding others, "Secretaries of State and Homeland Security may, on a case-by-case basis, and when in the national interest, issue visas or other immigration benefits to nationals of countries for which visas and benefits are otherwise blocked."
01.29.2017	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement today regarding President Donald Trump’s executive order that temporarily halts entry from certain countries: “I support the temporary entry restriction from certain nations until the administration, Congress and the American people know with confidence that any individual being granted admission does not pose a threat to our security. As the Executive Order correctly states, "Secretaries of State and Homeland Security may, on a case-by-case basis, and when in the national interest, issue visas or other immigration benefits to nationals of countries for which visas and benefits are otherwise blocked.” Additionally, lawful permanent residents and green card holders should not be adversely impacted by this Executive Order. Every American has sympathy for the innocent person who is looking to come to America for a better life, but the process must without exception prioritize America's national security first. We cannot allow someone entry until we know for sure they will not pose a risk. The ultimate humanitarian victory is to assist with efforts to stabilize these nations and eliminate the threats there to peace. With all that being said, I will be closely monitoring the execution of this EO to make sure that any misapplication is corrected immediately.”
01.27.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released a statement today on International Holocaust Remembrance Day; the 72nd anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz. “Today, we join with the international community to remember the millions of innocent people who were senselessly and tragically murdered during the Holocaust, one of the darkest periods in human history. We also join together to honor the sacrifices of our greatest generation, the brave service members who served during World War II. The Holocaust stands as a solemn reminder of the dangers of hatred, ignorance, and racism in every form. Although time has passed, we still feel the effects of anti-Semitism and intolerance to this day. Israel, our greatest ally, and the Jewish people continue to be disparaged with anti-Semitic actions against its people. America stood in solidarity with the Jewish community 72 years ago, and we must continue to do so today. We will never relent in the fight against those who seek to oppress others based on race, religion, gender, or socioeconomic status. While there will always be differences which separate us, we must not allow these divisions to devolve into violence against others. The injustices we face must be protested, but in a way that encourages discussion and debate, not further bloodshed. The Holocaust ended because of those who witnessed injustice chose to stand up and not remain silent. This must never happen again. We must continue to share the stories of those who have lived through this tragedy to teach future generations what happens when hatred prevails. Their lives must be remembered, honored, and memorialized. It is our duty not only as Americans, but as members of a global community.”
01.26.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced today that he has been appointed co-chair of the Congressional Long Island Sound Caucus in the House of Representatives, which he served on during the 114th Congress. Congressman Zeldin is replacing former Congressman Steve Israel as co-chair who recently retired from Congress. He will be serving alongside Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D, CT-3) who will be continuing on as the other co-chair. The First Congressional District of New York contains over 55 miles of Long Island Sound shoreline, and in the 114th Congress Congressman Zeldin was the lead Republican sponsor of the Long Island Sound Restoration and Stewardship Act (H.R. 2930). Congressman Zeldin said, “I am honored to serve as co-chair of the Congressional Long Island Sound Caucus with Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro. The bipartisan Long Island Sound caucus is dedicated to protecting and preserving the Long Island Sound and other critical waterways and natural treasures in our region. The Sound provides a diverse ecosystem with more than 170 species of fish, over 1,200 invertebrates and many different species of migratory birds. Home to more than 9 million people living in the coastal communities around the Sound, and over 24 million living within 50 miles of the Sound, the Sound is also essential to the everyday economy and livelihood of millions of Long Islanders. It’s also important to our local recreation and tourism economies.” “With valuable natural treasures like the Long Island Sound comes a great responsibility to protect them, which is why I have been working tirelessly over the past two years to protect water quality and preserve our environment,” Congressman Zeldin continued. “Working on the Long Island Sound Caucus, I will continue my efforts in the 115th Congress to secure funding for our local waterways, including passage of critical legislation that ensures the Sound is protected and restored for generations to come by reauthorizing the Long Island Sound Study and other important water quality and shore restoration programs that oversee and coordinate federal, state, and local activities related to the restoration of the Long Island Sound. I'll also continue fighting against proposals that would hurt our water quality and ecosystems, and pushing for the recycling and beneficial reuse of dredge material. Another important priority will be to stop the sale of Plum Island to ensure we pursue a better direction that allows for continued research, public access and permanent preservation of the island. I will continue working across the aisle as a member of this important caucus to ensure the preservation of our natural resources.” “The Long Island Sound is a national treasure with a significant ecological and economic value, contributing at least $9.4 billion to the regional economy,” said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro. “The Long Island Sound Caucus is critical in fighting for the funding needed to preserve this pristine, beautiful and vibrant ecosystem, and I am pleased to welcome Congressman Zeldin as a co-chair of the Congressional Long Island Sound Caucus.” Adrienne Esposito, Executive Director, Citizens’ Campaign for the Environment, said, “We are delighted that Congressman Zeldin has agreed to take this critical co-chair position and help lead the fight for Long Island Sound protection. Years of effort to restore the Sound are paying off and this valued estuary is showing meaningful signs of improved water quality and restoration. Now we need strong Congressional leadership to keep the progress going. Congressman Zeldin has been a fighter for Long Island Sound over the past few years and we look forward to his work and efforts for protecting Long Island Sound to become enhanced in this new leadership position.” “Congressman Zeldin’s ongoing commitment to the environment, and especially his tireless work on behalf of Long Island Sound, make him a natural leader for the Long Island Sound Caucus,” said Leah Schmalz, Program Director of Connecticut Fund for the Environment and its bi-state program Save the Sound. “We congratulate him on the appointment and are grateful for his support in funding Long Island Sound stewardship and restoration, his dedication to the federal Long Island Sound estuary program, and his non-stop efforts to permanently protect the ecological gem of Plum Island. Save the Sound looks forward to joining him, and the rest of the Long Island Sound Caucus, in working as a united front to protect the habitats, wildlife and waters of Long Island Sound.” Bob DeLuca, President, Group for the East End, said, “Congressman Zeldin has been a strong and effective advocate for the restoration and future protection of Long Island Sound and we applaud this appointment. Although the Sound has come a long way, the challenge of assuring its continued recovery and stewardship remains a formidable task and it will take the kind of dedication we have seen by the Congressman to keep improving the health and vitality of this remarkable and fragile estuary." George Hoffman, Trustee, Setauket Harbor Task Force, said, “Hearing that Congressman Zeldin has been named co-chair of the Long Island Sound Caucus should be welcomed news to all who value a clean and vibrant Long Island Sound. He has a strong record on coastal protection and represents one of the largest shorelines on the Long Island sound. And as a Majority member of Congress, he'll help LI Sound issues get the attention they deserve.”
01.25.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) sent a letter today to the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Michael P. Huerta, requesting an immediate response to a petition that was filed by the Town of Southold on November 15, 2016, regarding the FAA’s August 2016 extension of the New York North Shore Helicopter Route (NSR). Congressman Zeldin said, “It has been well over two months since the Town of Southold filed an important petition with the FAA regarding the abrupt August 2016 extension of the New York North Shore Helicopter Route (NSR), which was done without public input or consultation with local leaders. The Town of Southold has yet to receive a response from the FAA. “The FAA must respond immediately to Southold and reopen a docket on the NSR to address the nontransparent nature in which the four year extension was issued last August. If this is not completed immediately, I will renew my call in earnest for the immediate replacement of the Administrator. The people of the North Fork of Long Island continue to have their quality of life, property values, and local economy impacted by aircraft noise and the actions of the FAA, and deserve a response,” concluded Congressman Zeldin. You can view a copy of the letter here: Rep. Zeldin Letter to FAA Administrator 1.25.17.pdf
01.23.2017	Over the past two years in Congress, I have been working to advance my New Era of American Strength agenda, which includes protecting America’s security at home and abroad, helping grow our economy and create more good paying jobs, supporting our veterans and first responders, improving the quality of education, repairing our nation’s infrastructure, improving healthcare in America and safeguarding our environment. With a new year, new president and new Congress, there are many opportunities to advance legislation and other initiatives to improve the direction of our country. Keeping Americans safe, secure and free must always be our first priority. This includes training and equipping the greatest military in the world and ensuring our law enforcement has all of the tools it needs to protect our communities and country. In 2017, we need to pursue a stronger, more consistent foreign policy, which strengthens our relationships with our relationships with our allies and treats our adversaries as our adversaries. Especially important is the need to defeat ISIS and other terrorist threats, which includes the need to stop foreign fighter travel; a goal that Congress can help accomplish by passing my Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act. There is much more that can be done to secure our homeland, which includes improving our nation’s immigration system. While there are many challenges that exist regarding immigration, we must start by advancing proposals to secure our border and strengthen interior enforcement. America is a nation of immigrants and everyone should have the opportunity to pursue the American dream, but you must come to the United States legally and follow the rules. In Congress, one of my top priorities has always been to help grow our economy and create more good paying private sector jobs. We must reform and consolidate our broken tax code, which has become far too complicated and uncompetitive in the global economy. By consolidating the system with less tax brackets, there will be a direct benefit to the American economy, American companies, and the American worker. We should also simplify the tax code so that more Americans can do their taxes on a form as simple as a postcard. Another way to keep the U.S. competitive in the global marketplace is by ensuring that any trade deals entered into by the United States place America first and level the playing field so that American workers, families and businesses can compete and win in the global marketplace. We must also boost “Made in America” products to keep good paying jobs here. To further improve the business climate in the U.S., we must shut-down job killing red tape and harmful regulations hurting employers and employees, which includes getting the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act (H.R. 26) signed into law. Supporting our veterans and first responders must also remain a high priority. These brave men and women, who willingly and selflessly put their lives on the line while defending us, deserve nothing but the highest quality of life and care. Working across the aisle, I will re-introduce and push forward my bills to increase care for our veterans, including my bill to expand nationally the PFC Joseph P. Dwyer Veteran Peer Support Program, or “Dwyer Program,” so that every struggling veteran across the country eventually has access to a peer support group. I will also work closely with my colleagues to ensure a timely and proper delivery of healthcare for our 9/11 first responders who are now sick or will become sick as a result of their selfless efforts at Ground Zero in the weeks and months that followed the attacks. Furthermore, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) needs to be reformed to better serve our nation’s heroes. We have to ensure that each and every veteran who goes to the VA is receiving the quality of care that they deserve and that VA officials are given the resources and flexibility needed to hold poor performing employees accountable. There are so many ways that we can improve the quality of education in our schools. Rolling back the excessive amount of federally-mandated testing in grade schools to shift the focus in our classrooms from testing to teaching is key to ensuring our students are set up to succeed. By passing the Student Testing Improvement and Accountability Act, testing will be reduced to pre-No Child Left Behind levels and our children’s education and well-being will be put first. Advancing the investment in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) in our schools is also critical. STEM is vital to the education of our youth and the future of our country in the 21st century; preparing students in our communities to pursue good paying jobs will contribute to economic growth, increase innovation and allow us to remain competitive in the global marketplace. Furthermore, modernizing student loan debt financing is an important step to improve higher education. I will be re-introducing my bill, the Earnings Contingent Education Loans (ExCEL) Act, to replace the broken student loan system with an individualized loan repayment program tailored to each student's needs. In the U.S., too much of our infrastructure is in need of additional support. Working with the new administration and Congress, we can repair our nation’s infrastructure and further address vulnerabilities and opportunities for improvement through sensible policies, including the use of more public-private partnerships, to strengthen our roads, bridges and other forms of infrastructure. We also must physically secure all of our nation’s infrastructure from threats of terrorism and Mother Nature. Through collaboration with the Army Corps of Engineers, we can advance projects to boost coastal resiliency and our waterways using the natural environment to reduce flooding, erosion, and storm damage, while preserving the natural environment and wildlife. Improving healthcare in America is also a top priority. Obamacare has been nothing short of a disaster for countless hardworking families and our economy. The system has failed and it’s only going to get worse. We must repeal and replace Obamacare with a new reality that will work better and make healthcare more affordable, while continuing to cover Americans with pre-existing conditions and allowing children to stay on their parent's policy. It’s also essential that we preserve and protect Seniors’ access to Medicare to ensure that benefits are not cut, and seniors receive the benefits and care they need and have earned. Congress should also continue to help those coping with mental health issues and/or drug addiction by further increasing treatment and recovery services, and education measures, and address the drug crisis by stopping the flow of illegal narcotics into our country, and helping law enforcement identify and target drug traffickers. Safeguarding our environment is important to our life, culture and economy. Every American should have access to clean air and clean water, and we must protect and preserve our abundance of natural resources. In Congress, one of my highest priorities is to ensure we pursue a better direction for Plum Island, a cultural, historical, ecological, and natural resource. I will continue working to advance my bill to ensure we pursue a better direction that allows for continued research, public access and permanent preservation of the island. Fishing is another essential part of our culture and heritage, which is why I am focused on improving the management of our fisheries and reforming our current fisheries laws, while sacrificing none of the environmental and economic benefits of continuing to rebuild coastal fish stocks. This year, I will continue working to secure more victories through my New Era of American Strength agenda. It has been an honor to represent the First Congressional District of New York, and I am looking forward to pursuing all of these great opportunities and more for our community, state and nation. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York. In Congress, Rep. Zeldin serves on two House Committees: Financial Services and Foreign Affairs.
01.23.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in support of President Donald Trump’s executive order, which was just signed, to withdraw the United States from the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP): “I commend President Trump for his decision to sign an Executive Order today, withdrawing the United States from the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP). I have read the TPP, and this flawed international agreement has been appropriately coined 'NAFTA on Steroids'. Trade is vital to the U.S. economy, but the entire process of negotiating trade agreements needs to improve. In reality, Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) legislation should be passed before a negotiation is started, not five years into negotiations. Negotiating objectives should be set before negotiating, not towards the end. Furthermore, the process of turning off 'fast track' should be made remarkably simple if negotiating objectives aren’t met. There also needs to be a process along the way that assures the American public that the negotiating objectives are being strictly and completely adhered to. With over 38 million American jobs tied to trade, trade is a driving force in our economy. We need to advance trade deals that level the playing field so that American workers, families and businesses can compete and win in the global marketplace. American exceptionalism is the United States taking the lead in the global economy. We must advance policies that increase GDP, boost a trade surplus, and export American goods, not American jobs, in order to strengthen our economy and security. Growth opportunities are currently abroad with 96 percent of the world’s customers living outside our nation’s borders. Now is not too early or too late to recalibrate and re-engage in a way that the American public feels like their voices and input are being heard and that their representatives in Congress are setting the conditions and not just going along to get along. I look forward to working with everyone - our President, Congress, employers and employees, the CEO and the regular Joe - and get on the same page where the people’s voice is leading the way with a trade agenda that we are all more invested in and proud of. Working together, we must continue to insist on advancing trade agreements that strengthen the middle class, place America first, and deliver more opportunities to hardworking American families. We must ensure that any trade deals entered into by the United States are in the absolute best interest of the American economy, American companies, and the American worker. Through better trade deals, we can keep the U.S. competitive in the global marketplace and boost 'Made in America' products, which will help grow our economy, and keep our money and good paying jobs here.”
01.20.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement today after attending the Presidential inauguration ceremony in Washington, DC: “President George Washington once said, ‘The peaceful transition of power is what will separate this country from every other country in the world.’ It was an honor to attend the inauguration of President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence and I wish them and our country much success in the months and years ahead. With a new Congress and administration, there will be many opportunities throughout the year to improve our community, state and nation, by protecting America’s security at home and abroad, helping grow our economy and create more good paying jobs, supporting our veterans and first responders, improving the quality of education, repairing our nation’s infrastructure, improving healthcare in America and safeguarding our environment. It was unfortunate that some members of Congress chose to boycott the ceremony. Even if a member does not want to celebrate an inauguration, they can still participate to honor the process of the peaceful transition of power. As leaders, our commitment every day should be towards progress and unity. In order to pursue a better course for America, we must all move forward united.”
01.19.2017	Patchogue, NY - On Tuesday, January 17, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) presented the family of Anthony Xuereb, a volunteer Air Raid Warden, with a copy of a Congressional Record in his honor. The Air Raid Wardens were a group of volunteer civilians who were in charge of running air raid and blackout drills within their communities in the United States during WWII. Last month, Congressman Zeldin submitted the Congressional Record on the House floor honoring Mr. Xuereb for his service to the community. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with Mr. Xuereb’s daughter, Carmen Roth of Selden, center, and her husband, Richard Roth, right.
01.16.2017	Riverhead, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke this morning at the 32nd Annual Martin Luther King, Jr. Breakfast hosted by the First Baptist Church of Riverhead. This is the transcript of Rep. Zeldin’s prepared remarks: “Thank you Rev. Liggon and Rev. Coverdale, and thank you to everyone here to celebrate Martin Luther King Day; honoring one of the greatest heroes in the history of our nation. Dr. King dedicated his life to the pursuit of justice, freedom and opportunity for all Americans - peacefully fighting social injustice and spreading the message of love and respect across our country. He said that 'Our lives begin to end the day we become silent about things that matter.' Dr. King encouraged fierce but peaceful protest of injustice, and acted selflessly in the fight against hate and intolerance. He taught us that nonviolence can be our greatest weapon in the struggle against prejudice. With racial tensions high in our country today, we must not only reflect on Dr. King’s message of unity and respect, but also recommit ourselves to doing our part. Across our country, hostility and deadly clashes have taken place all too often between citizens and fellow citizens, as well as citizens and law enforcement. We cannot allow this to tear our nation apart. Challenges exist, but so do solutions, community, unity, prayer and common purpose. Dr. King believed that violence begets violence, and that racial tensions could only be truly overcome through peaceful discussion. All Americans, regardless of race, gender, socioeconomic status, or religion, must bind together in these trying times for our nation to move forward stronger. Our nation is fractured, but it does not always have to be this way. I know that we can enter a new day where no one is targeted because of the color of their skin, or for their uniform. We owe it to Dr. King to see his dream of a society unburdened by racism and prejudice become a reality. Thank you again, Reverends, for allowing me to join you on this day. Today, we honor you Dr. King, we thank you, one of the greatest Americans of all time, whose powerful message of love and unity inspires me, inspires everyone else in attendance here this morning and all others paying tribute to you today and everyday all across the land of this country that may not have been the greatest nation in the world if not for you."
01.16.2017	Huntington, NY — Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was a guest speaker at the Long Island Chapter of the National Electrical Contractors Association’s (NECA) Annual Installation Dinner at Oheka Castle in Huntington on January 13, 2017. Pictured above, from left to right, are NECA Director of Government Affairs Charlie Gardner, NECA Chapter President Michael Bender, Congressman Zeldin, and NECA Executive Director Peter Mastrorocco.
01.16.2017	Patchogue, NY - On Friday, January 13, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted a reception at the Patchogue Elks Lodge to announce, recognize and congratulate the 36 Long Islanders he has nominated to United States Service Academies this year. Members of Congress may nominate candidates for appointment to four of the five U.S. service academies: U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY; U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD; U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO; and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY. The fifth service academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA), New London, CT, does not require a congressional nomination for appointment. Over the past year, Congressman Zeldin worked closely with his staff and Service Academy Review Committee, a group of 16 volunteers, to narrow down the candidates based on specific criteria, including academic achievement, leadership potential, demonstration of character, and participation in extracurricular activities. The Congressman also hosted a Service Academy Information Day at Brookhaven Town Hall in June of 2016, which provided prospective students and their families with an opportunity to speak with representatives from each of the five service academies and learn more about Congressman Zeldin’s nomination application process. Congressman Zeldin said, “I am proud to congratulate the Service Academy nominees for New York’s First Congressional District. A big congratulations is also in order for the families and friends of our nominees as well. Our U.S. Service Academies play a vital role in training our future leaders. All of the applicants this year were highly qualified for a Congressional nomination, which made this decision extremely difficult, but I am proud to say that after 8 months we have nominated 36 fine young men and women. These leaders have shown their commitment to the values important to our armed forces - hard work, dedication, and a willingness to serve our nation. It is my hope that each nominee will take full advantage of all that the service academy has to offer, and that they will prove to be the best of the best of their generation.” Congressman Zeldin’s nominees are listed below: U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY: Brandon Cea of East Setauket; Joshua Lurie of Blue Point; Austin Tomaiko of Coram; Steven Shaw of Shirley; Noa Langleben of Southampton; Daniel Pryor of Port Jefferson Station; Megan Raftery of East Setauket; Samantha Squicciarini of Manorville; Mary Noto of Sound Beach; and Carl Schmidt of Ridge. U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD: Ezekiel Torres of Shirley; Andrew McKenna of Stony Brook; Robert Gansrow of Holtsville; David Cable of East Moriches; Jonathan Goohs of Nesconset; Alexander Yanez of Holtsville; Jack Stanton-Taddeo of Wading River; Thomas Audley of Selden; Katelyn McCabe of Patchogue; and Joseph Miller of Wading River. U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO: Kevin Reichardt of Kings Park; Nicholas Volpe of Miller Place; Nikki Distefano of Hampton Bays; Robert Choma of Manorville; Thomas Haskell of Manorville; James D’Agostino of Westhampton; Nicholas Pagnotta of Miller Place; Hunter Cafiero of Patchogue; and Samantha Sommers of Lake Ronkonkoma. U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY: Matthew DiGiorgi of Southampton; Joseph Mele of Mattituck; Gordon Shouler of Smithtown; Liam Baxley of St. James; Dutch Schultz of Stony Brook; Hunter West of Southampton; and Daniel Guerrisi of Sound Beach.
01.13.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) has been appointed to serve on two key House Committees in the 115th Congress: the House Financial Services Committee and House Foreign Affairs Committee. The Financial Services Committee has jurisdiction over the financial services industry and legislation pertaining to the economy and jobs, including banking, securities and exchanges, insurance, and the Treasury, among other issue areas. It also oversees the Federal Reserve and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and has jurisdiction over policy related to housing, monetary issues and combating the financing of terrorism. As one of the most highly sought after Committees in Congress, the House Financial Services Committee is considered one of only four “A” committees in the House of Representatives. The other three are Appropriations, Ways and Means, and Energy and Commerce. Congressman Zeldin said, “In Congress, one of my top priorities has been to help grow our economy and create more good paying, private sector jobs. There will be numerous opportunities during the 115th Congress to improve the business climate in America in order to accomplish this goal. In many other ways as well, the vast jurisdiction of the Financial Services Committee will provide endless possibilities to improve the direction of our economy.” The House Foreign Affairs Committee, which Congressman Zeldin served on during the 114th Congress, has jurisdiction over policy related to our national security and relations with foreign countries, and the ongoing fight against terrorism. Congressman Zeldin continued, “Another one of my top priorities has been to protect America’s security at home and abroad, by better securing our border, strengthening interior enforcement, fully training and equipping our military and law enforcement, and defeating ISIS and other terrorist threats. Additionally, we can do a better job stopping foreign fighter travel by repassing my Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act, which passed the House last year. We must also pursue a stronger, more consistent foreign policy that strengthens relationships with our allies, and treats our adversaries as our adversaries, understanding that our enemies do not respect weakness, only strength.”
01.12.2017	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued a statement of support to grant federal aid for Sag Harbor Village through the Small Business Administration (SBA) Disaster Recovery Program. On December 16, 2016, a 12-Alarm fire impacted almost 50 Sag Harbor businesses. Other businesses are now also suffering from the ongoing limitations imposed by the demolition, cleanup and recovery efforts. The effort to secure a disaster declaration through the SBA has been led in New York State by State Senator Kenneth LaValle and State Assemblyman Fred Thiele, but also requires a request from the Governor. Congressman Zeldin said, “Sag Harbor Village was recently ravaged by a fire that severely impacted the local main street economy. Fortunately, thanks to the swift action of the community’s first responders, no lives were lost during the tragic fire. However, the economic damage to the community was devastating. In this small community of just over 2,000 people, this sort of economic disruption has severe negative impacts. Senator Lavalle and Assemblyman Thiele recently sent a letter to Governor Cuomo requesting that he formally request an agency level special disaster declaration through SBA. It is so important that the afflicted business owners provide information on the damages sustained to the state as soon as possible as part of this process. I also encourage Governor Cuomo to act expeditiously in making this formal request for a disaster declaration. Additionally, I have been in direct contact with SBA to ensure that this federal agency makes this request a priority once it is made by the Governor. Sag Harbor Village is a vibrant historical community that represents so much of what makes Long Island a great place to live, work and visit. A disaster declaration would provide residents and business owners with access to the necessary resources to ensure a speedy and full recovery from last month’s fire.” The next step in the recovery process is for the New York State Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services, working with local officials and businesses, to ascertain the extent of the economic injury. After five or more businesses demonstrate sufficient uninsured losses, the next step is for the state, with a recommendation from the Governor, to request that this be declared a disaster by the SBA.
01.11.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement today regarding President-elect Donald Trump’s nomination of Dr. David Shulkin as the next Secretary of Veterans Affairs: "The Department of Veterans Affairs desperately needs so many reforms on multiple fronts to improve the standard of care for veterans. After several opportunities to interact with Dr. Shulkin these past two years, I'm confident that he is fully aware of the many challenges that currently exist. What I am eager to be assured of though is that he is actually going to do everything that needs to be done about it. The President-elect has constantly committed over and over again towards reforming the Department of Veterans Affairs and has shown a solid understanding of what needs to be fixed at the VA, while consistently reaffirming his commitment towards actually making those much needed changes. I would hope and expect that the President, Congress, media and American public will hold Dr. Shulkin's feet to the fire to ensure he follows through and does not fail in any capacity whatsoever with this new mission. He certainly wasn't my number one pick to be the next Secretary of Veterans Affairs, but I'll be the first in line to shake his hand and say thank you if he seizes this opportunity and makes the absolute most of it in the best interests of Long Island's veterans, the Northport VA and the entire community nationally of all America's sons and daughters who answered the call to serve our great country in defense of our freedoms and liberties."
01.09.2017	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released today the framework of his New Era of American Strength agenda for 2017 and beyond. “2017 presents new opportunities to improve our community, state and nation. With a new year and newly elected President, I am optimistic about a better way forward.” ~ Congressman Lee Zeldin Recapping some of Congressman Zeldin’s first term victories for NY-1: Secured passage of his Common Core proposal, which is now law, that allows states to opt-out of Common Core without penalty from the federal government; Included his Safe Bridges Act in the five year, fully funded highway bill, which was signed into law, and has already begun funding NY-1 infrastructure projects; Helped lead the successful effort to permanently reauthorize the Zadroga Act for our 9/11 first responders; Introduced and secured House passage of several more of his proposals, including, among other bills, three veterans bills, two proposals to save Plum Island, and his counter-terrorism legislation; Helped make permanent twenty different tax relief provisions to assist Long Island businesses and families; Created a new veterans health care clinic in Manorville; Successfully resolved over 4,800 cases in favor of NY-1 constituents. Congressman Zeldin’s “New Era of American Strength” Agenda Goals: Protecting America’s Security at Home and Abroad; Helping Grow Our Economy; Supporting Our Veterans and First Responders; Improving the Quality of Education; Repairing Our Nation’s Infrastructure; Improving Healthcare in America; and Safeguarding our Environment Protecting America’s Security at Home and Abroad: Secure our homeland by advancing efforts to better secure our border, strengthen interior enforcement, fully train and equip our military and law enforcement, and defeat ISIS and other terrorist threats; Stop foreign fighter travel by re-introducing and passing his Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act; Pursue a stronger, more consistent foreign policy that strengthens relationships with our allies, and treats our adversaries as our adversaries, understanding that our enemies do not respect weakness, only strength. Helping Grow Our Economy: Reform our broken tax code by consolidating the system to less tax brackets, repatriating money from overseas, and simplifying laws so that more Americans can do their taxes on a form as simple as a postcard; Shut down job killing red tape and harmful regulations hurting our small businesses by advancing legislation such as the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act; Pursue better trade negotiations to keep the United States competitive in the global marketplace, and boost “Made in America” products to keep good paying jobs here. Supporting Our Veterans and First Responders: Re-introduce Rep. Zeldin’s bills to increase care for veterans, including his bill to expand nationally the PFC Joseph P. Dwyer Veteran Peer Support Program (“Dwyer Program”). Reform the Department of Veterans Affairs to improve the quality of care for our nation’s heroes; Ensure a timely and proper delivery of healthcare for our 9/11 first responders who are now sick or will become sick as a result of their selfless efforts at Ground Zero in the weeks and months that followed the attacks. Improving the Quality of Education: Roll back the excessive amount of federally-mandated over-testing in grade schools, by passing the Student Testing Improvement and Accountability Act; Continue to advance the investment in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) in our schools; Re-introduce the ExCEL Act to address the student loan debt crisis, and prioritize higher education proposals that correctly improve access and affordability. Repairing Our Nation’s Infrastructure: Work with the new administration and Congress to further address vulnerabilities and opportunities for improvement regarding America’s roads, bridges and other infrastructure, including the use of more public-private partnerships; Advance projects to boost coastal resiliency and our waterways working with the Army Corps of Engineers; Physically secure all of our nation’s infrastructure from threats of terrorism and Mother Nature. Improving Healthcare in America: Repeal and replace Obamacare with a plan that will work better and make healthcare more affordable, while continuing to cover Americans with pre-existing conditions and allowing children to stay on their parent's policy; Continue to help those coping with mental health issues and/or drug addiction by further increasing treatment and recovery services and education measures, and stopping the influx of illegal substances; Preserve and protect Seniors’ access to Medicare to ensure that benefits are not cut, and seniors receive the benefits and care they need and have earned. Safeguarding our Environment: Save Plum Island by advancing Congressman Zeldin’s legislation to ensure we pursue a better direction that allows for continued research, public access and permanent preservation of the island; Ensure all Americans have access to clean air and clean water; Improve the management of our fisheries and reform our current fisheries laws, while sacrificing none of the environmental and economic benefits of continuing to rebuild coastal fish stocks. Congressman Zeldin said, “With a new President and Congress, there are many opportunities and much work ahead in the coming weeks and months. I will continue doing everything in my power to bring home more victories for our congressional district to better our community, state and nation. It is an honor and privilege to represent the First Congressional District, and I'm looking forward to a strong start in 2017.”
01.06.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) voted in favor of the Regulations From the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act (H.R. 26), which passed the House this week, and ensures that every major rule or regulation with an economic effect of $100 million or more annually would be required to be specifically approved by the House and Senate, in addition to the President, before the rule takes effect. Congressman Zeldin said, “In Congress, I have constantly heard from business owners on Long Island sharing stories about how various examples of bureaucratic red tape out of Washington has made it increasingly difficult to create more good paying, private sector jobs. The Regulations From the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act, which is about smart policy and balance of power, is needed to help shut-down job killing red tape hurting our small businesses. I proudly supported passage of this bill, and will continue working to advance the REINS Act to help grow our economy and ensure that Congress is provided more oversight over the most broad and harmful regulations being implemented by federal agencies.” The REINS Act passed the House on July 28, 2015, but the Senate did not take action on the bill before the end of the 114th Congress. Congressman Zeldin has been advocating for this bill to be signed into law since first taking office in 2015. You can read a 2016 op-ed that he wrote about the bill here. Yesterday, Congressman Lee Zeldin announced passage of House Resolution 11, which opposes United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Resolution 2334 that passed on December 23, 2016. Prior to yesterday's vote, Congressman Zeldin spoke on the House floor in support of H. Res 11, which you can watch here.
01.05.2017	Washington, DC – On Thursday, January 5, 2017, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, announced passage today of House Resolution 11, which opposes United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Resolution 2334 that passed on December 23, 2016 and calls for the UNSC Resolution to be repealed. Prior to the House floor vote, Congressman Zeldin spoke on the House floor in support of H. Res 11, which you can watch here. Congressman Zeldin said, “I rise today in support of H. Res 11 to oppose United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334; an anti-Israel, anti-Jewish attempt on behalf of Pro-Palestinian nations to delegitimize Israel and ethnically cleanse East Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria of the Jewish people. Israel is one of America’s greatest allies and a beacon of freedom and liberty in a very dark region of the world. President Obama lit a menorah this year at the White House and he reflected on Hanukkah as a celebration of the Maccabees’ fight for freedom….The Maccabees lived, prayed and fought on the land that this Security Council resolution calls illegally occupied territory and yet this resolution was passed the day before the start of Hanukkah. The Obama administration, by allowing this resolution to pass, is attempting a dangerous shift in American foreign policy that cannot be allowed to stand. The Israelis have long been willing to compromise large swaths of land in this region in pursuit of a two state solution. It has been the Palestinians who have time and again declined real offers on the table for their own state. Just think about this reality…if the Israelis agreed right now to make all of the concessions this UN Security Council resolution calls for, there would still not be peace. A viable two state solution isn’t just about Israel recognizing the Palestinians right to exist, it’s also about the Palestinians recognizing Israel’s right to exist. It is the Palestinians who financially reward terrorists for murdering innocent Americans and innocent Israelis. The United States should suspend foreign aid to the Palestinian Authority, move the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem and recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. It is the Palestinians who if they had an election today, Hamas would win. This is an entity that has committed not to rest unless Israel is wiped off the map. In 2015, I was in Ramallah and met with the Prime Minister of the Palestinian Authority who said to me without exception or hesitation that he would never recognize Israel as a Jewish state. These are just some of the realities Israel are up against. As for me, I stand for freedom and America should stand strong, shoulder to shoulder, with Israel.”
01.04.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement in response to a press release sent out today by New York State Governor Andrew Cuomo regarding the Affordable Care Act, AKA Obamacare, and health care in New York. “The Governor's press release fails to state absolutely any acknowledgment whatsoever that the Affordable Care Act, otherwise known as Obamacare, is flawed. Nothing at all is included about any of the lost doctors, cancelled policies, higher premiums or higher deductibles that New Yorkers are now facing. There is no acknowledgment whatsoever that New York's Health Exchange had just one co-op, Health Republic of New York, that collapsed, because the state picked an entity to run it, the Freelancers Union, which had no idea how to create a health care plan so they rented a health plan’s network. They didn't know how to sell the policies so they marked them down and when they realized that their math didn't add up and went to New York State regulators asking for permission to raise their rates, New York told them to make it work, which resulted in (just in time for the 2015 holiday season) a collapse that left over 200,000 New Yorkers without health insurance and providers on the hook with six, seven and eight figures worth of money still owed to them. Many of those impacted New Yorkers who switched policies received the 2016 version of this disaster of a holiday gift repeat as they were notified that their providers were no longer going to honor their new policies. There is no acknowledgment whatsoever of the cost of the Governor's debacle trying to convert New Yorkers to Managed Long Term Care. In 2011, when a Wall Street Journal article revealed that the New York State Office of the Medicaid Inspector General (OMIG) was investigating Visiting Nurse Services (VNS) for overbilling New York taxpayers by $224 million in illegal Medicaid claims in 2004-2005, the Governor actually fired the Inspector General at OMIG of all people, while also choosing to promote the CEO of VNS, Carol Raphael, to become his new co-chair of his new Medicaid Redesign Team. Then, with the assumption that all for-profits are evil without exception and all not for profits are doing heroic work without exception, the Medicaid Redesign Team started pushing New Yorkers into Managed Long Term Care and only offered medallions for these services to not for profits. Then, when the New York Times exposed the abuse of this new cronyism as VNS was targeting and signing up healthy people in order to milk the system, the Governor didn't just suspend VNS to cover himself, he suspended the entire signup system so that when the suspension was lifted, VNS would still have enough healthy people left to sign up to game the system, albeit more discreetly. New York State spends more money on Medicaid than Illinois, Texas and Florida combined. New York has the same population as Florida, but spends more money on Medicaid costs than Florida spends on its entire state budget. If Governor Cuomo's New Year's Resolution is to start caring more about health care costs, efficiency, and oversight, then he should hunker down in Albany with his budget wizards, and he actually has some extremely talented people like Robert Mujica, to clean this mess, because health care costs in New York are way beyond out of control. He may have his private political contracts with 1199 SEIU to protect him politically, but he wasn't elected Governor of New York to preserve his own political career at any cost even if that means selling out the rest of New York State to cut special deals with his buddies at 1199. Obamacare is going to be repealed and replaced. If Governor Cuomo has a good idea that productively contributes to the future of health care then I'm totally open to listening. In the meantime, he is not part of the solution by conspiring with allies to cook up half baked numbers to scare people about a particular course of action that is divorced from reality. Health care in America must work better and become more affordable, relieving taxpayers of the financial burdens under this failed policy, and give patients more choices, while still continuing to cover Americans with pre-existing conditions and allowing children to stay on their parent's policy. This is an ongoing process and I am willing to work with anyone on either side of the aisle to strike an appropriate balance not only for Long Island and New York, but for all Americans. In the meantime, Governor Cuomo needs to dedicate way more of his time getting his own house in order, because it's a house of cards right now that is filling Albany's swamp rather than draining it."
01.04.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was sworn in on January 3, 2016, for a second term in the United States House of Representatives by Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R, WI-1). Pictured above with Congressman Zeldin is his wife Diana, their twin daughters, Arianna and Mikayla, Congressman Zeldin’s parents, and Speaker Ryan.
12.29.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after traveling with a Congressional Delegation (CODEL) to the Middle East from Christmas Day, December 25, 2016, to December 29, 2016. Congressman Zeldin traveled to multiple countries, including Afghanistan, within the U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM) area of operations. Congressman Zeldin said, “It was an honor to again spend the holiday season with our service members deployed to the Middle East, including many New Yorkers. The briefings with top military and diplomatic leadership were most informative, and I will spend the next few days reflecting on this trip and processing all of the detailed information that I received. The ongoing fight against ISIS, Al Qaeda and other terrorist groups is constantly evolving, and being able to speak with top officials who are on the forefront of these military operations is critical. It was also such an honor to personally thank many of our service members in Afghanistan and other locations in the region who are currently deployed and missing the holidays away from their families. Spending a holiday away from family is never easy and they deserve to know how grateful we all are for their service and sacrifice.” Some pictures from the CODEL were released in a media statement yesterday, which you can view here. Additional photographs are below: Congressman Zeldin is pictured below with New York service members within the CENTCOM area of operations. Congressman Zeldin is pictured below in Kabul, Afghanistan, meeting with General John W. Nicholson Jr., Commander of Resolute Support and U.S. Forces Afghanistan. Congressman Zeldin is pictured below at the United States Embassy in Kabul, Afghanistan, (from left to right) with Dennis Hearne, Deputy Chief of Mission in Afghanistan, Congressman David Valadao (R, CA-21), Congressman Coffman (R, CO-6), Hugo Llorens, U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan, and Congressman David Cicilline (D, RI-1). In December 2015, Congressmen Zeldin, Valadao and Cicilline travelled to the Middle East on a CODEL that included time spent thanking troops in Iraq and Kuwait on Christmas Day.
12.28.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, is currently traveling with a bipartisan Congressional Delegation (CODEL) to the Middle East, including Afghanistan. This is the second consecutive year that Congressman Zeldin is in the Middle East visiting deployed service members during the holidays: Congressman Zeldin said, “It is an honor to visit our troops deployed overseas in the Middle East during the holiday season. Throughout this trip, I have had the privilege to thank many of our heroes, several from New York, risking their lives away from their families in defense of our freedoms and liberties. My meetings with top military and diplomatic leadership front and center in the fight against ISIS, Al Qaeda and other terrorist groups are also a critical component of this timely visit to the Middle East.” Also participating in the bipartisan CODEL are Congressman Mike Coffman (R, CO-6), Congressman David Valadao (R, CA-21) and Congressman David Cicilline (D, RI-1). Pictures from the currently ongoing 2016 CODEL are below. Congressman Zeldin is pictured below with the other Congressmen on the CODEL, as well as servicemen stationed in Kabul, Afghanistan, including New York servicemembers Captain Dan Kim, SSG Luna Sergio, SSG Joseph Philbin and NY-1 resident, SPC Raymond Stock, from Congressman Zeldin’s hometown of Shirley. Congressman Zeldin is pictured below with service members at Bagram Air Base, Afghanistan. The Congressman is pictured with MG John Thomson, Commander of the 1st Cavalry Division, far right, and several New York service members: In December 2015, Congressmen Zeldin, Valadao and Cicilline travelled to the Middle East on a CODEL that included time spent thanking troops in Iraq and Kuwait on Christmas Day.
12.23.2016	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, reissued his call for the United States to veto the recently released anti-Israel resolution, which has been reportedly scheduled for a vote as early as 3PM today: Congressman Zeldin said, "This is an anti-semitic, anti-Jewish, anti-Israel resolution. If this resolution passes, Congress and President-elect Trump should cut all foreign aid to the Palestinian Authority, which also financially rewards families for violent terrorist crimes against innocent Israelis. President Obama, in his final days in office, would be ramming through a massive and destructive shift in United States foreign policy in collusion with a Hamas-Abbas pro-Palestinian push for ethnic cleansing of the Jewish people in Eastern Jerusalem and Judea/Samaria. President Obama would be further cementing his legacy as one of the worst Presidents in the history of the United States, while damaging America’s historically sacred and necessary alliance with Israel in the process. As I stated yesterday, Pro-Palestinian, anti-Israel nations are continuing their fanatical efforts at the United Nations to delegitimize America’s greatest ally, Israel. We must stand shoulder to shoulder with Israel, a beacon of freedom and liberty in a very dark place of the world. The latest resolution should be vetoed by the United States today to send the strongest possible message to Pro-Palestinian, anti-Israel nations that their disparaging, divisive and dangerous tactics will be met with zero tolerance. Continued unilateral concessions by Israel in exchange for no promises or follow through towards peace on the part of others would be as ill advised as it is unfeasible."
12.22.2016	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, issued a statement on Thursday calling for the United States to veto the anti-Israel resolution, which has been proposed at the United Nations. Congressman Zeldin said “Pro-Palestinian, anti-Israel nations are continuing their fanatical efforts at the United Nations to delegitimize America’s greatest ally, Israel. We must stand shoulder to shoulder with Israel, a beacon of freedom and liberty in a very dark place of the world. The latest resolution should be vetoed by the United States today to send the strongest possible message to Pro-Palestinian, anti-Israel nations that their disparaging, divisive and dangerous tactics will be met with zero tolerance. Continued unilateral concessions by Israel in exchange for no promises or follow through towards peace on the part of others would be as ill advised as it is unfeasible.”
12.21.2016	New York, NY - On Tuesday, December 20, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with Ambassador Dani Dayan, Consul General of Israel in New York, in his Manhattan office. Since March of 2016, Ambassador Dayan has served as the representative of the State of Israel in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Delaware.
12.20.2016	Brentwood, NY - On Monday, December 19, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited three locations of Transitional Services of New York for Long Island (TSLI). Established in 1977, TSLI is a charitable organization which provides housing, support and employment services to those in need as they transition into independent living. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with Bruno La Spina, CEO of the agency, and one of TSLI’s clients.
12.19.2016	The New Year presents new opportunities to improve our community, state and nation. With a new year and a newly elected President, I am optimistic about a better way forward, securing our border, repealing and replacing Obamacare, simplifying our tax code, investing more in our nation’s infrastructure, reforming the Department of Veterans Affairs, and so much more. With a new President, better securing our border will be a top priority. Today, there are well over 11 million people living in the United States illegally, and many more breaking the law to come here each day. The first step must be to advance efforts to better secure our border and strengthen interior enforcement, an effort that should have bipartisan support in the House and Senate. President-Elect Trump has also stated that he plans on deporting people who are here illegally with criminal records. America is a nation of immigrants and everyone should have the opportunity to pursue the American dream, but you have to come legally and follow the rules. Repealing and replacing Obamacare is expected now as a result of this past November’s election. Obamacare has been nothing short of a disaster for countless hardworking families and our economy. The flaws in this healthcare system have resulted in higher premiums, higher deductibles, lost doctors, and cancelled policies, among many other challenges. With the collapse of Health Republic in New York, which left over 200,000 individuals and businesses in New York without insurance coverage unexpectedly, as well the collapse of dozens of other co-ops across the country, it has become increasingly clear to both Democrats and Republicans that this law is deeply flawed. In early 2015, Congress passed a bill to repeal and replace Obamacare. President Obama vetoed it. Under a new President, we can repeal and replace Obamacare with a plan that will work better and make healthcare more affordable, while continuing to cover Americans with pre-existing conditions and allowing children to stay on their parent's policy. Another top priority of the next Congress must be to reform our broken tax code, which has become far too complicated and uncompetitive in the global economy. We must consolidate the system to less tax brackets and simplify it so that more Americans can do their taxes on a form as simple as a postcard and more businesses will grow and remain in the United States. We also must shut shut-down job killing red tape and harmful regulations hurting our small businesses. Through also pursuing better trade negotiations, the United States will have the chance to regain its competitiveness in the global marketplace, boost “Made in America” products, and keep good paying jobs here. Our roads, overpasses, and bridges are essential to our economy, but across our community, state and nation, too much of our infrastructure is in need of additional support. In this new Congress, we should pursue new ways to continue upgrading our infrastructure. Advancing sensible policies that encourage local control and tap into public-private partnerships, we can implement new projects that will create jobs, strengthen our overall economy, and boost transportation safety. There should also be a focus on advancing coastal and wetland restoration projects that will use the natural environment to reduce flooding, erosion, and storm damage, while also preserving the natural environment and habitat for wildlife. This is especially important on Long Island. President-elect Trump should work closely with Congress to reform the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to better serve our nation’s heroes. I believe that 99% of VA employees genuinely care about the work they do and want to help veterans, but we need to hold accountable the other 1% of those who are not acting in the best interest of veterans. We also must ensure that each and every veteran who goes to the VA is receiving the quality of care that they deserve. Our veterans have willingly and selflessly put their lives on the line while defending our country, and they deserve nothing but the highest quality of life and care once they return home. This year’s election cycle was dramatic and polarizing, but it is so important that we unite and find common ground wherever possible. There is much work ahead in the next few months and I'm looking forward to a strong start in 2017. We should give President-elect Trump a chance to succeed. His success will be our success as Americans if we do this right. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York. In Congress, Rep. Zeldin serves on the House Veterans Affairs Committee, Foreign Affairs Committee, and Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.
12.14.2016	Riverhead, NY - On Tuesday, December 13, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended a ribbon cutting ceremony to celebrate the opening of a new collection site for the New York Milk Bank. The Milk Bank, which is located at Peconic Pediatrics in Riverhead, is the first collection site that has been established in Suffolk County, and helps distribute breast milk to newborns in need. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with Milk Bank staff members during the ribbon cutting ceremony.
12.13.2016	Washington, DC – On Tuesday, December 13, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced that the 21st Century Cures Act (H.R. 34), bipartisan legislation to modernize healthcare treatments and technologies, has been signed into law by the President. Congressman Zeldin, who cosponsored the 21st Century Cures Act in the House, has been a vocal supporter of the bill since its introduction last year. Congressman Zeldin said, “The bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act, which was just signed into law by the President, is a key piece of legislation for the health of residents on our island and across the nation. By paving the way for healthcare innovation and encouraging medical advancement, this new plan is a better way. The 21st Century Cures Act will remove barriers that prevent research collaboration to advance lifesaving treatments and technologies. Under the 21st Century Cures Act, there will be $4.8 billion in new funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH), including necessary funding to carry out the President’s Cancer Moonshot Initiative, that will be used to conduct research and development at facilities within the First Congressional District of New York, such as Brookhaven National Laboratory and Stony Brook University Hospital, as well as other research laboratories on Long Island and across the nation. Additionally, the 21st Century Cures Act provides $1 billion in grant funding to states to fight opioid abuse, and $500 million to the Federal Drug Administration to speed up the process of bringing new and improved medical devices and drugs to patients more quickly. Furthermore, in addition to providing funding to ensure our nation remains a leader in the medical industry field, and providing our local community with high-paying research and private sector jobs, the 21st Century Cures Act also makes important reforms to our broken mental health system. This new law removes federal barriers to care, advances early intervention programs, adds alternatives to institutionalization and improves the transition from one level of care to another. The 21st Century Cures Act is a huge win for Long Island and the rest of the country, and I am proud to have joined with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to secure passage of this critical law. This new law is a huge step forward, but there is still so much more we can do to develop effective treatments and cures to combat devastating diseases and illnesses. I will continue working in Congress to further medical advancement and innovation.” Last week, Congressman Zeldin released an op-ed on the 21st Century Cures Act, which you can read here.
12.09.2016	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, announced today that the No Veterans Crisis Line Call Should Go Unanswered Act (H.R. 5392), which passed the House by a vote of 357 to 0, was signed into law by President Obama on November 28, 2016. The No Veterans Crisis Line Call Should Go Unanswered Act (H.R. 5392) is bipartisan legislation that would require the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to establish a management plan for the Veterans Crisis Line (VCL), a suicide hotline for veterans. The legislation also requires the VA to develop a plan to ensure that each and every communication received by the VCL, including backup call centers, is answered individually in a timely manner, consistent with the guidance established by the American Association of Suicidology, which mandates that crisis center responders be available to answer a dedicated phone number 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Earlier this year, a VA Office of Inspector General report found that over 20 crisis calls to the VCL operated by the VA in 2014 were transferred to a backup call center voicemail system and the calls were never returned. Currently, a loophole allows for calls to be transferred to a backup center, which are allowed to place callers on hold and utilize voicemail. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “I am pleased to announce that the No Veterans Crisis Line Call Should Go Unanswered Act, which passed the House with great bipartisan support, was recently signed into law by President Obama. Our veterans have made great sacrifices for our nation. There is absolutely no justifiable reason that a struggling veteran who calls the suicide hotline should ever be sent to voicemail. The No Veterans Crisis Line Call Should Go Unanswered Act, now law, ensures that the VA will better manage the VCL. Now, each and every veteran who contacts the hotline will receive a timely response, which is how this should have been run from the beginning." In March 2016, Congressman Zeldin proposed another legislative fix, which passed the House, to ensure that veterans receive immediate assistance from a trained professional when they call the VCL. You can read more here.
12.05.2016	One of my highest priorities in Congress has been advancing legislation to improve healthcare in our nation. One of the bills that I have been advocating for passage of since it was first introduced in Congress is the 21st Century Cures Act (H.R. 34), bipartisan legislation that just recently passed the House, which I cosponsor, because it will save lives of Americans. Paving the way for healthcare innovation, the 21st Century Cures Act accelerates the process for scientific advancement by removing barriers that prevent research collaboration, and encouraging researchers to share essential data from prior research and clinical studies, to create the next generation of cures and deliver hope to those suffering from various diseases. Specifically, this bill provides $4.8 billion in new funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH), including necessary funding to carry out the President’s Cancer Moonshot Initiative, a program dedicated to accelerating cancer research. The 21st Century Cures Act also provides $500 million to the Federal Drug Administration, which will be used to help speed up the drug approval process and modernize clinical trials, to bring new and improved medical devices and medications to patients more quickly. The legislation would also provide for individual treatment plans, boosting the field of personalized medicine and tailoring treatment to patients suffering various illnesses, including Tick Borne diseases, which are rampant on Long Island. This funding will also provide critical research and development resources for facilities in the First Congressional District, including Stony Brook University and Brookhaven National Laboratory, as well as other research laboratories on Long Island and across the nation. Not only does this legislation provide critical research funds, it also provides $1 billion in grant funding to be allocated to the states, to help fight the opioid and prescription drug abuse crisis, which has been skyrocketing across all demographics on Long Island and across the country. In addition to providing funding to ensure our nation remains a leader in the medical industry field, and providing our local community with high-paying research and private sector jobs, the 21st Century Cures Act also makes important reforms to our mental health system. Included in this legislation is the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act (H.R. 2646), bipartisan legislation that I also cosponsor. 10 million Americans are currently stricken with serious mental illnesses, and unfortunately, our outdated mental health system is out of sync with patient’s needs. Mental health initiatives and research have helped more people than ever before, but the effort to treat all Americans affected is still falling short in many areas. The 21st Century Cures Act will elevate the importance of mental health in our healthcare system. By removing federal barriers to care, advancing early intervention programs, adding alternatives to institutionalization and improving the transition from one level of care to another, this bill will help to fix our nation’s broken mental health system, and help bring better care to those suffering. With House passage of this bill, the 21st Century Cures Act will now be sent to the Senate for a final vote. I will continue advocating for the Senate to pass this legislation, so that we can send this critically important bill to the President to be signed into law before the end of the year. The 21st Century Cures Act is a huge win for Long Island and the rest of the country, but there is still so much more we can do to develop effective treatments and cures to combat devastating diseases and illnesses. I will continue working in Congress to provide the resources necessary to advance research technology, education and medical innovation. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York. In Congress, Rep. Zeldin serves on the House Veterans Affairs Committee, Foreign Affairs Committee, and Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. He is also a member of the House Cancer Caucus and Congressional Diabetes Caucus, which both support increased funding for research and development to cure diseases.
12.05.2016	Patchogue, NY - On Monday, December 5, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with former New York Jets defensive back and NY-1 resident, Erik Coleman, in his Patchogue office. Mr. Coleman is an ambassador for Thrive Network, a not for profit social services agency that is dedicated to helping individuals with developmental disabilities. During their meeting, Congressman Zeldin and Mr. Coleman discussed ways to assist the disabled community and their families.
12.02.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, announced that the Fairness for Veterans Act (H.R. 4683), bipartisan legislation that Congressman Zeldin cosponsors and helped introduced in the House to assist veterans with less than honorable discharges in gaining access to screening services at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for the purpose of diagnosing mental health disorders, was included in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2017 (S. 2943) that passed the House today by a vote of 375 to 34. Congressman Zeldin was a member of the conferee team that helped negotiate the final package of the NDAA legislation. The bill will now be sent to the Senate for a final vote. Upon Senate passage, the NDAA package will be sent to the President to be signed into law. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “Securing passage of the Fairness for Veterans Act is a huge step forward to help service members who are struggling from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI), and Military Sexual Trauma (MST), and have received less than honorable discharges. This important legislation provides a path for veterans to receive an accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment for PTSD or TBI. It will also help separated servicemembers to upgrade their discharge status by creating a presumption in their favor, providing them with access to federally funded VA benefits and care. The Fairness for Veterans Act is an essential and commonsense piece of legislation to improve the quality of life for those who have sacrificed so much for our country.” The NDAA also includes: $619 billion in funding for national defense. Vital funding for our Armed Services, including over $5 billion to support the newly deployed troops overseas in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Europe. $600 million in additional munitions funding to replenish critically depleted munitions stores, which supply military equipment. Readiness Stabilization Funding to stop the drawdown of the military. In total, this bill provides over $3 billion more than the President’s request for operations. Increases to the strength of our military and funding for critical operation and maintenance projects. A 2.1% pay raise for our Troops, which had been denied by the current administration for the past four years. This will be the largest pay raise in six years. Relief for guardsmen by establishing a process to adjudicate individual cases based on the merits of each individual circumstance. This provision was included in response to the California National Guard recoupment issue earlier this year, where the Pentagon was requiring an estimated 10,000 veterans in California to repay decade old bonuses upwards of $15,000, and in some instances, as high as $46,000 or more. With passage of this legislation, the Department of Defense will now be responsible to reach out to every single soldier who was impacted, including those who have already repaid their bonuses, and review every one of their cases. “This bill provides critical resources to strengthen our Armed services and keep our nation safe,” Congressman Zeldin continued. “Working across the aisle, as a member of the conferee team, we were able to secure many bipartisan accomplishments within the bill, including an increase in funding for our troops overseas and for critical operation and maintenance projects to allow our military to remain well prepared for any challenge. This bill also provides necessary pay increases for our Troops and their families, among much more. I am proud to have helped secured House passage of this bill and encourage the Senate to act now so that we can send this legislation to the President’s desk before the end of the year.”
12.01.2016	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, November 29, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined with House Republican Leadership, including House Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), and other House Members in the U.S. Capitol to announce that the 21st Century Cures Act (H.R. 34) passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 392 to 26. Congressman Zeldin is a cosponsor of the 21st Century Cures Act and has been a vocal supporter of the bill since it was first introduced in the House. The bill will now be sent to the Senate for a final vote. Upon Senate passage, the 21st Century Cures Act will be sent to the President to be signed into law. Congressman Zeldin said, “The 21st Century Cures Act paves the way for healthcare innovation in the United States. It accelerates the process for scientific advancement, gives researchers access to necessary resources, and helps deliver lifesaving or life improving cures and treatments to Americans suffering from a disease. This plan is a better way that encourages scientific collaboration to find cures faster. This bill removes barriers that prevent research collaboration, and increases researchers’ access to essential data from prior research and clinical studies. The 21st Century Cures Act includes $4.8 Billion in new funding for NIH, including necessary funding to carry out the President’s Cancer Moonshot Initiative, providing critical research and development resources for facilities in the First Congressional District, including Stony Brook and Brookhaven National Laboratory, as well as other research laboratories on Long Island and across the nation. This bill also provides $1 billion in grant funding for states to fight opioid abuse which has been sweeping across our island, state and nation. Additionally, this legislation provides $500 million to the Federal Drug Administration to speed up the process of bringing new and improved medical devices and drugs to patients more quickly. From tackling Mental Health challenges to Tick Borne Diseases, and providing our local community with high-paying research and private sector jobs, this is a huge win for Long Island and the rest of the country, and I am proud to have worked with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to secure this bill’s passage.”
11.30.2016	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced that H.R. 6303, new legislation that was introduced by House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R, UT-3), which includes a section within the bill that would create a new, unique zip code for the hamlets of Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton, in the Town of Southampton, passed the House of Representatives today unanimously by voice vote. Earlier today, Congressman Zeldin spoke on the House floor to express his support for the bill. You can watch the video here. Congressman Zeldin said, “I am pleased to announce that H.R. 6303, which would create a new, unique zip code for the hamlets of Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton, has passed the House. These three hamlets currently share the same zip code with the nearby Town of Riverhead and there are at least 18 identical street names and 32 similar street names. This causes a number of issues, including delay of mail and packages, which can hold important goods like medications. Shared street names can also delay the response time of emergency and medical personnel in situations where every second counts. Securing this new zip code is an effort that I have been working on since entering Congress in 2015, working closely with House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz, who even came to Flanders to hear the concerns of those impacted in our community firsthand. Chairman Chaffetz’s committee has jurisdiction over the United States Postal Service, and I thank him for his commitment to address this issue. House passage of H.R. 6303 is an important step forward to secure a new zip code, but now the next step is for the Senate to pass the bill as well. This process does not require a Senate sponsor, although if a Senator chooses to introduce the same bill separately that wouldn’t hurt. I will continue advocating for the Senate to do so immediately, so that we can get this bill signed into law before the end of the year. This is an effort that residents, local elected officials, and community organizations have been working on for many years, and it is an honor to be their voice in the House.” Congressman Zeldin also supports another proposal, the Postal Service Reform Act of 2016 (H.R. 5714), which was also introduced by Chairman Chaffetz and would also create a new, unique zip code for Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton. This bill was passed out of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform on July 12, 2016 and awaits further action by the House. Congressman Zeldin will continue to pursue every legislative option available to achieve the goal of a new zip code for these communities.
11.29.2016	Flanders, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was joined by New York State Senator Ken LaValle, New York State Assemblyman Fred W. Thiele, Jr., and members of the community at the David W. Crohan Community Center in Flanders to announce that a House vote has been scheduled for tomorrow, November 30, 2016, on H.R. 6303, new legislation that was introduced by House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R, UT-3), which includes a section within the bill that would create a new, unique zip code for the hamlets of Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton, in the Town of Southampton. Congressman Zeldin said, “Since entering Congress in 2015, I have been working to secure a new zip code for Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton. In August 2015, I sent a letter to the USPS Postmaster officially requesting that the hamlets of Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton, be assigned a new zip code in order to make them distinguishable from Riverhead Town. The Post Office, which denied the initial request that I then appealed, has since been unresponsive. Throughout this process, I’ve been working closely with House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz, whose committee has jurisdiction over the United States Postal Service, to get this problem fixed as quickly as possible. In September 2016, I brought Chairman Chaffetz to Flanders to meet with a group of community leaders from the impacted area to explain to the Chairman firsthand about the importance of securing a new zip code for Flanders, Northampton and Riverside. On Monday, November 14, Chairman Chaffetz introduced H.R. 6303, which passed out of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee by voice vote on November 16. Since then, I have been working to further advance this bill, and I am excited to announce that the bill has been scheduled for a vote on the House floor tomorrow, November 30, 2016, and is expected to pass. After House passage, the next step is for the Senate to pass the bill as well. This process does not require a Senate sponsor, although if a Senator chooses to introduce the same bill separately that wouldn’t hurt. There is also another proposal, the Postal Service Reform Act of 2016 (H.R. 5714), which was also introduced by Chairman Chaffetz and would also create a new, unique zip code for Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton. This bill was passed out of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform on July 12, 2016 and awaits further action by the House. This is another legislative option that I am pursuing as well. I would like to thank the local elected officials and community leaders who have been working with me every step of the way. For many years, residents, local elected officials, and community organizations have been aware of this issue and the problems it brings, but despite their previous efforts to resolve this matter, the issue still serves to be a burden on many of the residents, businesses, and organizations in this area of our Congressional District. This has been a priority for them for many years, and it is an honor to be leading this effort in the House. We must advocate for the Senate to take immediate action on this bill in the remainder of this Congress, so that we can get this bill signed into law before the end of the year.” Ronald Fisher, Chairman of the Flanders, Riverside & Northampton Citizens Advisory Council (CAC) and President of the Flanders Riverside & Northampton Community Association (FRNCA), said, “Obtaining a zip code for the Southampton Hamlets of Flanders, Riverside & Northampton independent from the Town of Riverhead has been a top priority for our community for decades. Not only has Congressman Zeldin taken our request farther than any other elected official, he has done so with an unprecedented sense of urgency, leaving no stone unturned in his legislative quest to help our community. Words can't express how grateful I am to Congressman Zeldin for not giving up and doing everything in his power to see a zip code created for us." New York State Assemblyman Fred W. Thiele, Jr. stated, “The assignment of these three new zip codes will help create a renewed sense of identity for the Flanders community, especially during a time in which so much effort is being put forth to revitalize and redevelop the area. I applaud and thank Congressman Zeldin for his leadership and commitment on this issue and the people of Flanders.” Southampton Town Supervisor Jay Schneiderman said, “The people of Flanders, Riverside and Northampton have long awaited this moment. I want to congratulate Congressman Zeldin for delivering this unique gift to the community, just in time for the holidays.”
11.26.2016	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin, member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement on the death of Fidel Castro: "With the death of Fidel Castro, we remember those who suffered under his regime and all of the work still ahead to help secure freedom for the Cuban people. Fidel Castro hurt many people during his life and suppressed his own people to selfishly consolidate his own power. Hopefully we are approaching the end of a very dark chapter in the history of a nation with limitless potential to thrive with liberty and opportunity."
11.21.2016	Oceanside, NY - On Friday, November 18, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended an event hosted by SUNation Cares, a not-for-profit organization affiliated with SUNation Solar Systems based in Ronkonkoma. During the event, SUNation Cares donated a free solar-electric generating system to the family of U.S. Marine Thomas Howell III of Oceanside, who lost his battle to PTSD this past February. Congressman Zeldin said, “After our service members return home, far too many of our nation's heroes struggle with the wounds of war. Caring for our veteran families must always be a high priority in our country. I thank SUNation for their efforts to help our veterans and veteran families.”
11.21.2016	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) today announced $500,000 has been awarded to the Research Foundation at Stony Brook University to support the Long Island Bioscience Hub (LIBH) program. LIBH is a collaboration program between Stony Brook University, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Brookhaven National Laboratory, and Feinstein Institute for Medical Research, and receives support from the National Institutes of Health Research Evaluation and Commercialization Hub (REACH) initiative, Research Foundation for SUNY, and Empire State Development. LIBH helps advance the National Institutes of Health’s (NIH) mission as the nation’s medical research agency, by promoting the development of medical research tools. Congressman Zeldin said, “This award will help advance LIBH, allowing this critical program to continue to expand, and improving the overall quality of health of Long Islanders. Improving our nation’s healthcare system must always be a top priority, and I am proud to be working with Stony Brook on this effort.” "In New York State and specifically Long Island, there is rich potential in the biosciences, as represented by the leading businesses and academic institutions in the region,” said Clinton T. Rubin, PhD, Director, Center for Biotechnology, SUNY Distinguished Professor and Chair of the Department of Biomedical Engineering at Stony Brook University. “We are thrilled that the Department of Commerce supports our efforts, and we believe this award will accelerate and augment the translation of great discoveries into the marketplace. These early stage technologies will also fuel the pipeline of bio-based diagnostics, therapeutics and medical devices.” The funding was secured through the Economic Development Administration.
11.21.2016	With a newly elected President taking office in January and all of the challenges and opportunities ahead for America, it is important that we all come together to find common ground wherever possible to move our country forward by securing our country and growing our economy. Protecting America’s security at home and abroad and keeping our nation safe from any threat must always be our first priority. In the New Year, we must continue to pursue a stronger and more effective foreign policy, which includes defeating ISIS and other terror threats, correcting a flawed Iran Nuclear Agreement, strengthening our military, keeping GITMO open, pausing the Syrian refugee program, strengthening our relationships with our allies, and treating our enemies as our enemies. We also need to make improvements to our immigration system. There are so many challenges that exist, but we must start by advancing bipartisan proposals to secure our border and strengthen interior enforcement. America is a nation of immigrants and everyone should have the opportunity to pursue the American dream, but you have to come to the United States legally and follow the rules. Another top priority includes growing our economy and creating more good paying private sector jobs. Too many Americans are struggling just to make ends meet. Whenever possible, Congress needs to come together on legislation that will strengthen our middle class and small businesses. Another important step is to reform our broken tax code, by consolidating the system to less tax brackets and simplifying it so that more Americans can do their taxes on a form as simple as a postcard. Additionally, by negotiating better trade deals, removing bad regulations and boosting “Made in America” products, we can keep good paying jobs here in the United States. There are also other policies that can be implemented that will ease the financial burden on families, especially when it comes to healthcare costs. I have met with too many struggling Long Islanders who cite difficulty in gaining access to quality and affordable healthcare, especially under Obamacare. Here in New York, Health Republic’s collapse, a result of Obamacare, left hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers without insurance, and triggered enormous financial losses to local health care providers. Earlier this year, Congress passed a bill to repeal and replace Obamacare. The President vetoed it. Under a new President, we can repeal and replace Obamacare with a system that will work better and make healthcare costs affordable, relieving taxpayers of the financial burdens under this failed policy, and give patients more choices, while still continuing to cover Americans with pre-existing conditions and allowing children to stay on their parent's policy. There are so many challenges ahead, which is why we must unite to find common ground and move our country forward. In Congress, I have always been willing to work with absolutely anyone to better our community, state and nation. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the New Year to secure our country and grow our economy. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York. In Congress, Rep. Zeldin serves on the House Veterans Affairs Committee, Foreign Affairs Committee, and Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.
11.21.2016	Commack, NY - On Sunday, November 20, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke at Temple Beth David, a synagogue in Commack.
11.16.2016	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced today that legislation introduced earlier this week in the House, H.R. 6303, by House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz, passed out of that committee this morning unanimously with bipartisan support. H.R. 6303, which designates facilities of the United States Postal Service and establishes new zip codes, includes a section within the bill that would create a new, unique zip code for the hamlets of Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton, in the Town of Southampton. You can read the bill text here. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “For residents in Flanders, Northampton and Riverside, a new zip code has been a top priority for several years. According to research initiated by the concerned residents of these hamlets, there are currently 18 identical street names and 32 similar street names - and possibly more - that are shared between these Southampton hamlets and Riverhead Town. The delay of deliveries caused by this issue is not just a nuisance to the local community, but these packages can hold important goods, like medications, which can greatly impact quality of life and well-being. The shared zip code and similar street names can also cause major problems for police, first responders, and other emergency personnel, who may arrive at the wrong address. This can all be avoided by assigning a new and unique zip code to Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton, which is why I have been working closely with Chairman Chaffetz, whose committee has jurisdiction over the United States Postal Service, to get this problem fixed as quickly as possible. I thank Chairman Chaffetz for his efforts to help solve this problem, and look forward to continuing to work with him, to get this bill passed in the House and Senate, and signed into law before the end of this year.” In September 2016, Congressman Zeldin hosted a roundtable at the Big Duck in Flanders with Chairman Chaffetz and a group of community leaders from the impacted area, to explain to the Chairman firsthand about the importance of securing a new zip code for Flanders, Northampton and Riverside. Another proposal, the Postal Service Reform Act of 2016 (H.R. 5714), also introduced by Chairman Chaffetz, would also create a new, unique zip code for Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton. This bill was passed out of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform on July 12, 2016 and awaits further action by the House.
11.15.2016	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, released the following statement in response to Southold Town filing a formal complaint over the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) decision to extend the North Shore Route for four years: “I strongly support the Town of Southold’s efforts to appeal and challenge the FAA's decision to extend the North Shore route for four years. Residents across the North Fork of Long Island have had their quality of life adversely impacted by aircraft noise summer after summer, and their complaints have been ignored by the FAA. The extension of the route was done in an unacceptable and secretive fashion, bypassing requirements in federal law, which call for public hearings and a comment period through consultation with local governments. I will continue working closely with Southold Town to hold the FAA accountable, and seek a permanent solution to the aircraft noise challenges on the East End, which includes true all water routes to the South Fork."
11.15.2016	Patchogue, NY - On Monday, November 14, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) toured the Home Depot facility in Patchogue.
11.15.2016	Patchogue, NY - On Monday, November 14, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) presented a Certificate of Special Congressional Recognition to James Cameron, R.N. of Rocky Point, for his work within the community. Mr. Cameron is with Northwell Health and serves as the Legislative Liaison for the Emergency Nursing Association in the First Congressional District.
11.14.2016	Calverton, NY - On Veterans Day, Friday, November 11, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was a featured Guest Speaker at the annual Veterans Day ceremony hosted at Calverton National Cemetery.
11.14.2016	St. James, NY - On Veterans Day, Friday, November 11, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched at a parade in St. James hosted by VFW Post 395.
11.14.2016	Rocky Point, NY - On Thursday, November 10, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was a featured Guest Speaker at the Veterans Day assembly hosted annually at the Joseph A. Edgar Intermediate School in Rocky Point.
11.07.2016	This year's election cycle has been one of the dramatic and polarizing in our nation's history. To move our country forward from here, unity amongst the American people will be the most critical necessity. Ideological differences will always exist, but the pursuit of common ground must be the highest priority. Other differences that separate us, especially with race, must also be overcome to heal our nation and bring us all closer together. One example of where we can better unify is with regards to divisions based on race. Tensions are strong right now. I stand shoulder to shoulder with our men and women in blue, but quite frankly, we all should without exception. This will require not only better communication and leadership, but also accountability as necessary on all sides of this issue. Everyday, men and women first responders kiss their loved ones goodbye as they leave their homes to protect their local community and put their lives on the line to keep us safe. We must get back to the point where tensions from misdeeds don’t overshadow and overwhelm the passionate, loyal desire to always be expressing appreciation and gratitude. We can better unify with regards to divisions formed by political ideology. Differences are acceptable. Debate is healthy. A vigorous pursuit of common ground wherever possible though must be the norm. My first term in Congress gave me a deeper appreciation of just how diverse our country is from some of the bluest, most liberal leaning districts in America, to some of the reddest, most conservative leaning districts in the United States. Different geographic locations prioritize different substantive issues over others and that diversity should be embraced and respected. Whether serving in the Army, State Senate or Congress, I have always been willing to work with absolutely anyone to better our community, state and nation. There are so many challenges ahead, and in order to pursue a better course for America, we must all move forward united. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York. Rep. Zeldin serves on the House Foreign Affairs, Veterans’ Affairs and Transportation and Infrastructure Committees.
11.02.2016	Holtsville, NY - On Tuesday, November 1, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited Island Nursing in Holtsville. The Congressman is pictured above meeting with residents in the recreation room.
11.02.2016	Commack, NY - On Friday, October 28, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the United Cerebral Palsy (UCP) Association of Long Island’s Gala, where he was presented with the 2016 Life Without Limits Award in recognition of his dedication and commitment in Congress to improving the lives of people with disabilities. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, accepting The Life Without Limits Award from Stephen H. Friedman, right, President and CEO of UCP of Long Island.
10.31.2016	Patchogue, NY - On Sunday, October 30, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Suffolk County Marathon. The Congressman presented medals to the 5K participants and also held the finish line ribbon as the half marathon winners completed their run.
10.31.2016	Since taking office in January 2015, I have been working tirelessly to advance my New Era of American Strength agenda to protect America’s security at home and abroad, help grow our economy, support our veterans and first responders, improve the quality of education, repair our nation’s infrastructure, improve healthcare in America, and safeguard our environment. In Congress, I have always been willing to work with absolutely anyone to secure victories for our community, state and nation. Immediately upon entering office, I leveraged my position as a freshman in the House, working closely with leadership and colleagues on both sides of the aisle, to secure a number of important victories for our district. Just a few include getting a five year, fully-funded transportation bill, including my Safe Bridges Act, passed and signed into law. My legislative proposal to allow states to opt-out of Common Core without penalty from the federal government was also passed and signed into law. Securing a partnership between the Department of Veterans Affairs and Peconic Bay Medical Center, there is now a new veterans health care clinic in Manorville for East End veterans. I also helped lead the effort to permanently reauthorize the Zadroga Act for our 9/11 first responders and secure a new law to make permanent 20 tax provisions for families and businesses on Long Island. Furthermore, my office was able to successfully resolve over 4,400 cases in favor of NY-1 constituents. All of these are important victories that I am proud to have been able to secure thus far, but there is still so much more work ahead. I’ve introduced a number of other bills that have now passed the House, and the Senate must now act to pass all of these bills listed below before the end of the year: Three Bills for Our Nation’s Veterans (H.R. 2460, H.R. 1569, H.R. 1187) – Supporting our veterans, and ensuring they receive the treatment and benefits that they earned and deserve, must always be a top priority. That is why I introduced three bipartisan pieces of legislation to care for our veterans, including H.R. 2460, which would provide Adult Day Health Care for disabled veterans at no cost, H.R. 1569, to require the VA to pay accrued benefits to the estate of deceased veterans, and H.R. 1187, to eliminate the loan limit that the VA can guarantee for a veteran. The Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act (H.R. 4314) – There is a critical need for improved border security to prevent the free movement of terrorists internationally. With the rise of terrorism across the world, I introduced bipartisan legislation, H.R. 4314, to establish international security standards and close security gaps, guarantee that U.S. resources are utilized in the most efficient way possible in the areas where they are needed most, and put in place a monitoring system to screen for infectious diseases to contain and prevent any potential outbreaks. Two Proposals to Save Plum Island (H.R. 1887, Amendment to H.R. 5485) – One of my highest local priorities has been safeguarding our environment, which includes protecting one of our local treasures, Plum Island. Rather than allow the federal government to sell Plum Island to the highest bidder, I introduced bipartisan legislation, H.R. 1887, to stop the sale and development of the island, almost all of which is completely undeveloped. I also introduced a bipartisan amendment to the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act of 2017 (H.R. 5485), which prohibits any of the funding within the appropriations bill to be used to market or sell Plum Island. We can and should pursue a better direction for Plum Island that would allow for continued research, public access and permanent preservation of the island, while ensuring good paying research jobs are on the island. Allowing Striped Bass Fishing Off the Coast of Montauk (H.R. 3070) – One of the pressing issues faced by Long Island fishermen is the urgent need to clarify the boundary of the Exclusive Economic Zone, or EEZ, between Montauk Point and Block Island. The unique geography of our region means that making the 15 mile journey by boat from Montauk Point to Block Island requires passing through a small strip of waters considered to be part of the EEZ. My legislation, H.R. 3070, will provide regulatory relief and more certainty to our region’s fishermen, while restoring local control to a critical fishery that must be properly managed and preserved for future generations. While all of these proposals passed the House with bipartisan support, the Senate must take up these essential important pieces of legislation before the end of the year. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York. Rep. Zeldin serves on the House Foreign Affairs, Veterans’ Affairs and Transportation and Infrastructure Committees.
10.28.2016	Medford, NY - On Wednesday, October 26, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited the Medford Multicare Center for Living to meet with residents.
10.26.2016	Stony Brook, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced that Stony Brook University will be the lead SUNY institution to receive $1.6 million in funding from a $4 million, five-year grant that supports the SUNY Louis Stokes Alliances for Minority Participation (LSAMP) program, which includes an alliance of 14 SUNY schools. The grant will be used to conduct a study to boost Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) programs in schools by creating additional STEM curriculum, adequately preparing underrepresented minority students for a successful transition into STEM majors, and promoting experiential and research activities in the fields. Congressman Zeldin said, “STEM programs in our schools are critical for students in the 21st century; educating and preparing our youth to pursue good paying jobs, which contribute to the growth of our economy, and allowing the U.S. to remain competitive in the global marketplace. This grant will allow Stony Brook University to further research how to best prepare all students for college and help promote the study of STEM in our schools.” “Increasing diversity in STEM degrees is a major strategic goal of our college as we strive to do our part to help the nation close the innovation deficit and stay competitive in a technology-driven global economy,” said Fotis Sotiropoulos, PhD, Dean of the College of Engineering and Applied Sciences. “LSAMP provides our underrepresented students with incredible opportunities in the classroom and paves the way to exciting career opportunities in technical fields.” “Our alliance will scale up programs that build our momentum to increase student recruitment and retention,” said David Ferguson, Project Director, Co-Principal Investigator, and SUNY Distinguished Service Professor in the Department of Technology and Society in the College of Engineering and Applied Sciences. “We will also focus on improving STEM pathways from community colleges to four-year schools and creating a pipeline to produce global researchers and scholars.” The funding was secured through the National Science Foundation (NSF).
10.25.2016	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, released the following statement in response to the Pentagon requiring an estimated 10,000 veterans in California to repay decade old bonuses upwards of $15,000, and in some instances, as high as $46,000 or more. The Pentagon issued this ruling after audits found that the Department of Defense had overpaid veterans in an effort to recruit Americans to enlist in the Army during the armed conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. “The Department of Defense should correct this horrendous error regarding decade old bonuses paid to approximately 10,000 California National Guardsmen. The Pentagon must immediately reverse course. No veteran should have to repay this money that they were promised. They have more than fulfilled their end of these agreements, especially for those veterans who were wounded overseas in combat.”
10.24.2016	Medford, NY - On Friday, October 21, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was one of the two honorees at the James V. Kavanaugh Knights of Columbus Annual Ball, along with Brookhaven Town Councilman and Deputy Supervisor Dan Panico. Pictured above, from left to right, are Don Sarno, a Knight, Councilman Panico, Congressman Zeldin, and Shawn Sexton, the Grand Knight.
10.24.2016	The student debt crisis faced by the American public is a serious and growing problem in the United States. The cost of college tuition is skyrocketing, which is severely limiting the number of high school graduates who can access higher education, and those students who do graduate are often times saddled with a tremendous amount of debt. Fortunately, there are affordable options for college education, such as state universities and community colleges which continue to provide higher education opportunities at a lesser cost. While serving in the New York State Senate, as a member of the Higher Education Committee, I helped put together legislation to improve the SUNY system, which included expansions for tuition assistance opportunities for students, so that more students had access to an affordable college education. Despite more affordable options, estimates show that currently 40 million Americans have student debt totaling over $1.2 trillion. In Congress, I introduced legislation to help lower student debt by simplifying the student loan process for undergraduate and graduate students. My bill, the Earnings Contingent Education Loans Act, or ExCEL Act (H.R. 3695), would establish an affordable and flexible, income-based repayment method that is molded to each individual’s needs. This flexible repayment approach focuses on the student’s ability to repay loans based on their income to ensure the student is not being set up to fail, while establishing a program that ensures loans are paid back in their entirety, and incentivizes graduates to repay their loans more quickly. This approach helps those who need help the most. Since virtually every available statistic shows that individuals with lower incomes are most likely to struggle with loan repayments, this approach is the most direct option available to lower student loan debts. While there are other possible solutions to address this issue such as lowering interest rates and being able to refinance interest rates, allowing an individual’s debt to be tied directly to flexible loan repayments is the clearest options available that does not require significant tax increases to accomplish its goal. I also helped introduce bipartisan legislation in the House, the Pell Grant Flexibility Act (H.R. 5764), which expands federal Pell Grant tax credits. This important bill would allow grants to cover both tuition and non-tuition expenses, such as textbooks, housing, transportation and child care. Working across the aisle, the House passed a significant increase for the funding of Pell Grants, nearly $22.5 billion overall for Pell Grants, representing an over $1,000 increase in the maximum award for each student, which was signed into law by the President. There is so much more that can be done by multiple levels of government to help younger Americans achieve their full potential as future leaders of this great country. In Congress, I will continue to support legislation to address this crisis, so that students can afford college and graduates can afford to pay off their debt. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York.
10.18.2016	Rocky Point, NY — On Monday, October 17, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended a Town of Brookhaven park dedication ceremony for the new Veterans Memorial Square in Rocky Point. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, with Brookhaven Town Councilwoman Jane Bonner, center, and member of the Rocky Point Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), Joe Cognitore, left.
10.17.2016	There is no greater friend and reliable ally to the United States than Israel. We have a mutually beneficial relationship, as Israel remains a most important strategic partner in the Middle East. With the turmoil and unrest we see around the world, especially in the Middle East, it’s essential that we remain committed to building a stronger relationship with our greatest ally, Israel. It is amazing that we have such a strong Democratic ally in such a volatile part of the world. Israel is surrounded by terrorist groups like Hamas, Hezbollah, Al Qaeda and ISIS, but Israel's strength and our unbreakable alliance emboldens their strongest possible determination to survive. We share the same enemies, understanding that a threat to Israel is a threat to the United States. Just before the recent Jewish high holy days, I traveled to Israel as part of a Presidential Delegation visit with President Obama to attend the funeral of former Israeli President and Prime Minister Shimon Peres; the last founding father of Israel, who was deeply committed to preserving peace, security and democracy in Israel and the Middle East, and worked to strengthen the bond between the United States and Israel. It is so important that this bond between our countries is as strong as possible. From recognizing Jerusalem as the unquestionable capital of Israel, to standing shoulder to shoulder with innocent Israelis when they are targeted by Palestinian terrorists, there is so much room for growth in this relationship. The United States must pursue a better and more consistent foreign policy: one that strengthens our relationships with our allies and treats our enemies as our enemies. Especially today, when we are too often reminded that while we frequently hear and read about terrorist attacks abroad, we have a very real, ongoing homeland security threat here at home. Protecting America’s security at home and abroad must always be one of our top priorities. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York. In Congress, Rep. Zeldin, the only Jewish Republican in Congress, serves as a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus.
10.10.2016	Rocky Point, NY - On Friday, October 7, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) addressed a government class at Rocky Point High School. Students also had the opportunity to ask Congressman Zeldin questions. The Congressman is pictured above addressing the students.
10.10.2016	Montauk, NY - On Saturday, October 8, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Montauk Fall Festival. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with Paul Monte, President of Montauk Chamber of Commerce, right.
10.10.2016	At midnight, October 1, 2016, the United States’ oversight of the internet was given away. With so much focus on the Presidential election, many Americans aren’t even aware that this is happening. In the 1960s, the United States launched the U.S. Defense Department’s Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA) project, which was later expanded in the 1980s as a result of U.S. taxpayer-funded grants. As a result of this project, and United States’ leading technology and funding, the modern day internet was created. For the past 18 years, the United States has had oversight of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) through a contractual agreement with the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), an agency within the U.S. Department of Commerce. In 2014, the Obama administration formally announced its goal of ending the United States’ contractual oversight of ICANN and the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) functions as an act of international diplomacy. This hastily began a phase of ICANN planning for U.S. withdrawal and future independent ICANN operations. Despite the proposal being incomplete, the contract was allowed to expire on October 1, 2016; giving ICANN sole authority to oversee the World Wide Web’s domain name system (DNS) and placing Internet security currently ensured by U.S. oversight in jeopardy. This premature transfer concedes American oversight to an entity whose proposed operational capabilities are unassured. The transfer could also embolden countries like China, Russia or Iran to gain access to the oversight of the internet to push their internet censoring policies. Furthermore, this transfer violates the U.S. Constitution. Article IV of the Constitution states that Congress has the power to “…dispose of and make all needful Rules and Regulations respecting the Territory or other Property belonging to the United States…” Since the creation and maintenance of the internet has been funded by the United States, it is technically seen as property of the U.S. The Obama administration did not have the authority to allow this contract to end without Congressional approval. Last year, I helped pass the Domain Openness Through Continued Oversight Matters Act (H.R. 805), or the DOTCOM Act. This bill would have prohibited the transfer of the internet until the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information submits a report to Congress that details the transition and ensures that the new plan in place will protect the internet. This bill passed the House with strong bipartisan support, but the Senate never took it up in their chamber. Just recently, a new bill was introduced, the Protecting Internet Freedom Act (H.R.5418), which would immediately cease the transfer of the internet by prohibiting the contract to expire unless specifically authorized by Congress. It awaits action in both the House and Senate, and I’ve been working to get this bill passed. I also joined with my House colleagues in signing a letter sent to Secretary of Commerce Pritzker to urge the Secretary to continue NTIA’s current responsibilities regarding the oversight of the internet. Additionally, a lawsuit was filed on September 30 in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas by the state attorneys general from Texas, Arizona, Oklahoma, and Nevada. They claim that U.S. states "will lose the predictability, certainty, and protections that currently flow from federal stewardship of the Internet and instead be subjected to ICANN's unchecked control.” The suit claims that the President does not have the authority to give away the United States’ earned and pioneering role in keeping the internet free and open. Ceding U.S.-led oversight of the internet to the influence of authoritarian regimes like those in China, Russia and Iran contradicts the open and free nature of internet use by individuals all over the world. Elected officials at different levels of government are demanding that the Department of Commerce halt the transfer. With millions of internet users in New York active in the digital economy, I will continue to support all efforts to stop the internet giveaway. With so many aspects of our lives computerized, there is too much at stake. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York. In Congress, Rep. Zeldin serves on the House Veterans Affairs Committee, Foreign Affairs Committee, and Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.
10.07.2016	Melville, NY - On Thursday, October 6, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) participated in a Cybersecurity Panel discussion titled “The Key to Limiting Your Risk Is Being Informed”, which was hosted by Long Island Business News (LIBN).
10.04.2016	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, and the only Jewish Republican in Congress, released the following statement after travelling with President Obama to Jerusalem to attend the funeral service of former Israeli President and Prime Minister Shimon Peres. “It was an honor to join President Obama in attending the funeral service of former Israeli President and Prime Minister Shimon Peres to pay my respects to the last founding father of Israel, and offer condolences on behalf of the First Congressional District of New York and the United States. Shimon Peres was deeply committed to preserving peace, security and democracy in Israel and the Middle East. The funeral service was a very powerful ceremony, including Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu passionately honoring Peres' 93 impactful years of life and the legacy left behind. They were political rivals, but with a deeply shared love of their country and the strength of the bond between the United States and Israel. It was an honor to attend the service, and I thank the President for the invitation.” Congressman Zeldin travelled to Israel on Thursday, September 29, 2016, to attend the funeral service on Friday, September 30, 2016. That evening, Congressman Zeldin stayed overnight in Cyprus, where he and several other House members had dinner with the U.S. Ambassador to Cyprus, which was on her one year anniversary as Ambassador. He returned to the United States on Saturday, October 1, 2016.
10.03.2016	Many aspects of our lives have now become computerized; financial, transportation, energy, and emergency response are just a few. Without a substantial boost to cybersecurity capabilities, companies, individuals, and different levels of government will remain in a very vulnerable position that threatens our personal information and poses a serious risk to our country’s national security. From identity theft, to full blown government and corporate hacks; it’s evident that cyber-attacks are a growing threat that must be quickly addressed with eyes wide open. A May 2016 report conducted by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) found that cyberattacks against the U.S. government have increased drastically over the past ten years; rising from 5,500 attacks in 2006 to over 77,000 attacks in 2015. Two recent high profile attacks against Yahoo and the Democratic Party have highlighted the urgent need to take cyber security more serious than ever before. There are several key principles that must be considered to aggressively achieve necessary progress; not least of which is that the best defense is a good offense as a deterrent. Foreign actors need to know that the United States not only has the ability to employ the same tactics to them that they use against us, but we are absolutely willing to go on offense to ensure an attack on Americans is not worth the effort. The Department of Defense (DOD) and National Security Agency (NSA) are two agencies in particular in a unique position to lead with this strategy. In Congress, I have placed a high priority on advancing legislation to boost cyber security capabilities. The House has passed the Critical, Infrastructure Protection Act (H.R. 1073), Protecting Cyber Networks Act (H.R. 1560), National Cybersecurity Protection Advancement Act (H.R. 1731), Strengthening State and Local Cyber Crime Fighting Act (H.R. 3490), State and Local Cyber Protection Act of 2015 (H.R. 3869), and Cyber Networks Act (H.R. 1560). These bipartisan bills help strengthen our cybersecurity infrastructure and intelligence collection ability while also promoting more coordination between different levels of governments and the private sector. Companies as well have a massive responsibility to protect private personal information in their possession. Infrastructure systems must be strengthened as much as possible to mitigate vulnerabilities to cyber attack. It is the duty of businesses to be up to date on the latest technology to boost cybersecurity and not to cut any corners. Businesses should also work with law enforcement whenever necessary and possible to further strengthen cybersecurity protections. Employee practices must be constantly sharpened to boost cybersecurity. “Whaling” and “Phishing” are examples of tactics used to trick an individual into sending sensitive information that should not otherwise be forwarded. These are just two concepts that many employees throughout our country know nothing about even though all must become experts on how to identify and respond to the use of these tactics. Individually, we can all practice better “cyber hygiene” in monitoring our own networks and personal computers, being aware of the latest threats and having the best software installed to combat those threats, using strong passwords and avoiding questionable sites and emails. In the military, where I currently drill as part of the Army Reserves, we receive regular training on all of these basic but key concepts: Not leaving our military ID in the computer; not opening or responding to suspicious emails; not opening suspicious attachments to emails, not distributing sensitive information to unauthorized parties, and not leaving our computers unattended. Cyber security is a 2016 challenge that we need to be much more prepared to address. There is so much more to do and so little time to get ready to prevent the threats that now face all of us. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York. In Congress, Rep. Zeldin serves on the House Veterans Affairs Committee, Foreign Affairs Committee, and Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.
10.01.2016	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, and the only Jewish Republican in Congress, released a statement today condemning Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte after making remarks comparing himself to Hitler: “The statements made by Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte where he likened himself to Hitler while discussing his plan to “slaughter” millions of drug users and dealers are completely wrong, shameful and a gross embarrassment to his people. The Holocaust was a grave tragedy where millions of innocent people were brutally and senselessly murdered. President Duterte should at the absolute very least publicly apologize for his horrific, insulting, deeply offensive, and insensitive comments.”
10.01.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, announced today that the bipartisan legislative solution he proposed to ensure that veterans receive immediate assistance from a trained professional when they call the Veterans Crisis Line (VCL) was included in H.R. 5325, which was signed into law by President Obama on September 29, 2016. Congressman Zeldin’s effort, which he led with other Members of Congress, was launched in March of 2016, following the release of a Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Office of Inspector General report which detailed that calls to the Veterans Crisis Line operated by the VA in 2014 were transferred to a backup call center voicemail system and never returned. The language that Congressman Zeldin proposed, which was included in H.R. 5325, reads as follows, “The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure that the toll-free suicide hotline under section 1720F(h) of title 38, United States Code – (1) provides to individuals who contact the hotline immediate assistance from a trained professional; and (2) adheres to all requirements of the American Association of Suicidology.” The American Association of Suicidology standards mandate that crisis center responders “be available to answer a dedicated phone number 24 hours a day, 7 days a week." Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “Each and every struggling veteran who contacts the suicide hotline should receive immediate support from a trained VA responder. After sacrificing so much for our country, there is absolutely no justifiable reason that a veteran who calls the suicide hotline should ever be sent to voicemail. I am proud to have secured passage of this new law ensuring that a trained professional is available to take an incoming call on the suicide hotline 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.” Last week, Congressman Zeldin voted for the No Veterans Crisis Line Call Should Go Unanswered Act (H.R. 5392), which passed the House by a vote of 357 to 0. You can read more here.
09.30.2016	Washington, DC – On Tuesday, September 27, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, met in the U.S. Capitol with Aliza Lavie, member of the Israeli Knesset.
09.29.2016	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, and the only Jewish Republican in Congress, is travelling with President Obama to Jerusalem today to attend the funeral service of former Israeli President Shimon Peres. Congressman Zeldin said, “Former Israeli President Shimon Peres was deeply committed to preserving peace, security and democracy in Israel and the Middle East. It is an honor to join with the President in attending President Peres’ funeral service to pay respects and offer condolences on behalf of the First Congressional District of New York and the United States.”
09.28.2016	Stony Brook, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Shellfish Caucus, today announced $326,963 has been secured for Stony Brook University’s School of Marine Sciences to conduct research into the Quahog Parasite Unknown, also known as QPX, a disease that affects Quahogs, or Northern Hard-Shelled Clams. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “Clamming is a critical part of the Long Island and regional seafood economy. Unfortunately, the QPX disease has severely impacted clamming throughout the Northeast, which has led to a damaging loss to the clam aquaculture throughout our region. This study is an important initiative to help combat this disease and grow our shellfish economy.” “Stopping the spread of QPX disease, which greatly limits the growth of the hard clam aquaculture in the Northeast, is our biggest scientific challenge regarding the health of clams,” said Bassem Allam, a Professor at SoMAS and lead researcher. “Our previous work demonstrated that clam resistance to QPX is genetically dictated, and we were able to identify genetic markers associated with clam resistance, opening the way for the development of resistant stocks. Our current project takes advantage of this new information to allow the selection of superior clam stocks in support of the aquaculture industry in NY and in the region.” The grant was secured through the United States Department of Agriculture’s National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA), which supports critical agriculture science research and technology. Last year, Congressman Zeldin helped secure $1.49 billion in funding for the NFIA program.
09.28.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, released the following statement on the passing of Former Israeli President Shimon Peres: “Shimon Peres was a great leader devoted to peace and deeply committed to preserving security and democracy in his country and region of the world. Israel is our nation's strongest ally with shared goals and dreams of a more stable Israel and surrounding region. Americans join together today to pay tribute to Shimon Peres' life and leadership, and pray for his family during this difficult time.”
09.27.2016	Smithtown, NY – On Sunday, September 25, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended an event hosted by the NYC PBA honoring Panico’s Butcher Shop and Deli for “Heros 4 Heroes”, a nonprofit organization that donates heros to America’s heroes. Pictured above, from left to right, are Suffolk County Legislator Leslie Kennedy, three individuals from Panico’s Butcher Shop and Deli, Congressman Zeldin and NYC PBA President Pat Lynch.
09.27.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, announced that last night the House passed the No Veterans Crisis Line Call Should Go Unanswered Act (H.R. 5392) by a vote of 357 to 0. The No Veterans Crisis Line Call Should Go Unanswered Act (H.R. 5392) is bipartisan legislation that would require the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to establish a management plan for the Veterans Crisis Line (VCL); a suicide hotline for veterans. The legislation also requires the VA to develop a plan to ensure that each and every communication received by the VCL, including backup call centers, is answered individually in a timely manner, consistent with the guidance established by the American Association of Suicidology, which mandates that crisis center responders be available to answer a dedicated phone number 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Earlier this year, a VA Office of Inspector General report found that over 20 crisis calls to the VCL operated by the VA in 2014 were transferred to a backup call center voicemail system and the calls were never returned. Currently, a loophole allows for calls to be transferred to a backup center, which are allowed to place callers on hold and utilize voicemail. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “I strongly supported the No Veterans Crisis Line Call Should Go Unanswered Act, which passed the House with great bipartisan support. There is absolutely no reason that a struggling veteran who calls the suicide hotline should ever be sent to voicemail, especially since the VA receives tens of billions of dollars each year for veterans’ health. This legislation will ensure that the VA better manages the VCL so that each and every veteran who contacts the hotline receives a timely response. Our veterans have sacrificed so much for our country and in their time of need, they deserve to receive the best possible care.” In March 2016, Congressman Zeldin proposed another legislative fix, which passed the House, to ensure that veterans receive immediate assistance from a trained professional when they call the VCL. You can read more here.
09.26.2016	One of the most commonly shared challenges about life on Long Island is our high cost of living. Individuals and families are working so hard just to make ends meet. Income levels that may be considered upper middle class in other parts of our country don’t go anywhere near as far in New York. To raise wages more, we need businesses to flourish and when businesses grow on Long Island we need them to stay here. This will create more good paying, private sector jobs, improve liquidity throughout our local economy, and expand the middle class locally. There is so much that can be done at all levels of government to help make Long Island more affordable so that younger generations can afford to raise a family here and seniors can afford to stay. While serving two terms in the New York State Senate, and now my first term in Congress, one of my highest priorities has been to help grow our economy and middle class. Whether it was working on the state level to successfully repeal the MTA Payroll Tax for 80 percent of employers, enact the nation’s strongest property tax cap, and reduce middle income tax rates to the lowest level in 60 years, or working on the federal level to help remove barriers that prevent businesses from growing and jobs from being created, while providing tax relief for the middle class, there have been so many worthy causes to pursue progress. In Congress, I have worked to advance legislation to shut-down job killing red tape hurting our small businesses, such as the Regulations From the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act (H.R. 427); reform and simplify our broken tax code so that more Americans can do their taxes on a form as simple as a postcard; and reject flawed trade policy, like President Obama’s Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) and Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP). When trade deals are entered into, we must ensure that they are good trade deals for the American worker – otherwise they should not be entered into at all. We must do everything we can to create more American jobs, which is why the House passed the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act (H.R. 4923), which was signed into law, to boost “Made in America” products to keep good paying jobs here in the United States. Last December, Congress passed the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act, which was signed into law, making permanent 20 different tax relief provisions to help Long Island businesses and families. The House also advanced policies to help reduce energy and healthcare costs, such as the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act (H.R. 3762), which would repeal and replace major provisions of Obamacare. The Hire More Heroes Act (H.R. 22), which was signed into law, was another major accomplishment of Congress; this bipartisan law helps Long Island veterans obtain jobs and financial security, encouraging businesses to hire veterans, while providing local employees with relief from burdensome requirements under Obamacare. Here on Long Island, our roads, overpasses, and bridges are essential to the Long economy. After ten years of short term extensions, Congress passed a permanent, bipartisan, five-year highway bill, which provides long-term funding for our transportation and infrastructure. Within the highway bill, I secured my legislation, the Safe Bridges Act (H.R. 3168), which was signed into law, to provide much-need federal funds to help improve our local roads and bridges. Under the Safe Bridges Act, over 80 bridges and overpasses across the First Congressional District will now be eligible for federal funding; creating jobs, improving our overall economy, and boosting transportation safety. Another key component to help grow our economy is ensuring that our students are fully prepared as the next generation workforce. Last year, Congress passed the bipartisan STEM Education Act (H.R. 1020), which was signed into law, and provides federal funding to increase Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) programs in our schools. STEM is vital to the education of our youth and the future of our country in the 21st century; preparing students in our communities to pursue good paying jobs, which contribute to the growth of our economy, while increasing innovation, a necessary requirement for the United States to remain competitive in the global marketplace. We also must modernize student loan debt financing so that more students can afford to go to college, which is why I introduced the Earnings Contingent Education Loans (ExCEL) Act (H.R. 3695) to replace the current broken student loan system with an individualized loan repayment program tailored to each student's needs. Estimates show that currently 40 million Americans have student debt totaling over $1.2 trillion. Passage of this legislation would allow more college graduates to afford to get their professional lives off the ground successfully and start a family here on Long Island. There is so much more to be done at all levels of government to help grow our economy and make Long Island more affordable. While there is no single piece of legislation at any level of government that is going to completely address this challenge, we must continue to pursue solutions that help grow our middle class and improve the business climate on Long Island, put American workers first, and create more good paying jobs. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York.
09.26.2016	Patchogue, NY - On Saturday, September 25, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended a fundraiser in Patchogue that was hosted by Project Miller / 22 Plus 1 and Angel Bikes to raise awareness of the 22 veterans and one active duty servicemember that we lose each day to suicide. The fundraiser was organized by Margie Miller, who lost her son, Cpl. Keith Miller, an active duty Marine, to suicide in September 2015. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, with members of the AMVETS Post 1174.
09.23.2016	Washington, DC – On September 22, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, spoke twice on the House floor during debate on the Prohibiting Future Ransom Payments to Iran Act (H.R. 5931) that includes Congressman Zeldin’s amendment, which can be viewed here. The bill, including Congressman Zeldin’s amendment, passed the House last night by a vote of 254 - 163. While addressing colleagues on the House floor, Congressman Zeldin expressed the importance of passing H.R. 5931 to prohibit ransom payments to Iran; the world’s largest state sponsor of terror. He also referenced a federal law enacted in 2000, which details a very specific requirement regarding payments to Iran from the Foreign Military Sales (FMS) Program account, which was directly violated by President Obama's $1.7 billion cash payment to Iran. You can watch Congressman Zeldin’s full speech here and here.
09.21.2016	Ridge, NY – On Tuesday, September 20, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted his Annual Senior Day Expo Event at the Leisure Village Recreation Hall. Speakers at the event included representatives from Medicare, Medicaid, the Alzheimer’s Association and Taxpayers’ Advocates Office. Congressman Zeldin’s staff was also there to help answer any questions regarding federal issues. Congressman Zeldin said, “Thank you to all those who attended my annual Senior Day Expo event. Living out one’s golden years to the max can come with its share of challenges, which is why I organize an annual event to provide guidance for the seniors of the First Congressional District. Fighting for our seniors and ensuring that they have the highest quality of life must always be a top priority in America. If assistance is ever needed with a federal issue, or any questions exist about Social Security or Medicare, residents of the First Congressional District can always contact my Long Island office at (631) 289-1097.” Earlier this month, Congressman Lee Zeldin received the “Guardian of Seniors' Rights” award from the 60 Plus Association in recognition of his commitment to seniors. Click here for more details.
09.20.2016	Northport, NY – On September 20, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, participated in a House Veterans’ Affairs Committee field hearing that was held at the Northport VA entitled, “An Assessment of Deficiencies at the Northport VA Medical Center.” Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “Since the media first reported on the closed operating rooms at the Northport VA, my office has been contacted by several Long Islanders, including veterans, whistleblowers and other stakeholders, regarding very specific and serious allegations that have been made with regard to the Northport VA. Throughout the years, I have always heard high praise from veterans across Long Island who have had nothing but a very positive experience at the Northport VA. However, I cannot allow the recent spike in specific and very serious allegations that have been made to my office to be ignored. All allegations regarding the care of our veterans must be taken very seriously, which is why my office shared this information with the House Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations in order to conduct a full and fair review of the information. The field hearing held today on Long Island is just one part of the investigation. There are still many questions that remain unanswered, including specific inquiries made by the House Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Jeff Miller to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs Robert McDonald, which have gone unanswered by the VA since July 2016. That is not acceptable.” “Additionally, there is also a larger issue here in need of attention as it relates to regional and national management of Veterans Affairs services,” Congressman Zeldin continued. “The national VA network is systematically flawed with how their budgets are structured and implemented. From a billion dollar cost overrun for the Denver VA hospital construction project to hundreds of thousands of dollars erroneously spent on an art piece, there are too many unnecessary examples of funds being mishandled and wasted. The impacts of this fiscal mismanagement is felt by veterans all across the country each year when the VA prioritizes each project request; many routine maintenance projects are unfortunately brushed aside and moved too far down the priority list. The natural and unavoidable consequence of this mismanagement is that the entire system is at risk of falling into a state of disrepair, including Northport. This isn't about signing off on the inefficiency by simply throwing more money at the problem. It's about getting to the root cause of why there are so many inefficiencies and ensuring it gets fixed.” “Today’s hearing was an important step, but there is still much more that must be investigated. Congress’ investigation will continue until all the facts are at hand and we have all of the answers that we need to ensure our veterans have only the highest quality of care,” Congressman Zeldin concluded.
09.19.2016	Centereach, NY - On Sunday, September 18, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) and his family attended the Centereach Street Fair. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with wife, Diana, and twin daughters, Arianna and Mikayla.
09.19.2016	Farmingdale, NY - On Friday, September 16, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke at the Long Island Contractors’ Association (LICA) Bi-County Infrastructure Breakfast. During the breakfast, he was presented with a baseball bat to thank him for “going to bat” for Long Island infrastructure funding.
09.19.2016	Our communities and families throughout America have been severely impacted by the rise of prescription drug abuse and the growing heroin crisis, especially here in Suffolk County; the most adversely impacted county in New York State. Since taking office in January 2015, I have been working in the House of Representatives as a member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, to address this looming crisis, which if left unchecked, could have untold consequences for future generations. Working closely with our local community, and hosting multiple summits and roundtable discussions with local elected officials, law enforcement, health professionals, community groups, parents, concerned residents and those in recovery, we have discussed various ways that we can combat this pandemic through a three-pronged approach that focuses on treatment, enforcement, and education. We have also discussed the importance of supplying the local community with Naloxone, or Narcan, a lifesaving medication that is safe and easy to administer, and has been proven to reverse an overdose within minutes. In Congress, I have been pushing to advance legislation to help provide our community with the resources we need, which includes higher supplies of Narcan. However, we must be sure that those who are saved by Narcan are immediately provided with the help that they need to fully recover so that they do not just return right away to using again. One very important piece of legislation that I have dedicated the most amount of my time advocating for passage of is the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery (CARA) Act (S. 524), which was signed into law in July 2016. CARA provides a total of $8.3 billion in funding to help combat the heroin and opioid epidemic. Some provisions of the bill include: $80 million in funding to help prevent and treat addiction on a local level through community-based education, prevention, treatment and recovery programs; $160 million for the expansion of medication-assisted treatment options; and $103 million to establish a community-based competitive grant program to address and treat the problems of heroin and opioid addiction. The bill will also provide funding necessary to expand prescription drug monitoring across the country, and provide funding to supply our local community with higher quantities of Naloxone. Just one of the additional bills that I have been working to advance in the House is the Stop Overdose Stat (SOS) Act (H.R. 2850), which I cosponsor. The SOS Act would help increase the supply of Narcan by providing an additional $25 million over a 5 year period for production and distribution to make sure that medical professionals and families have it in their possession, and are trained and ready to administer it. The SOS Act also establishes a preventative research task force to research ways to prevent future overdose deaths, which provides a unique, preventative approach to fight against drug abuse. Equally important is a focus on enforcement to stop the flow of illegal narcotics into our country. Providing our law enforcement entities with the resources they need to target drug kingpins and international narcotraffickers will destabilize global drug rings, keeping drugs out of our country, which is why I supported legislation that passed the House to help law enforcement officials identify and target drug traffickers (H.R. 3380), and allow for easier prosecution of these criminals (H.R. 4985). There is not one piece of legislation that will completely solve this crisis, but we must do everything in our power, working with all levels of government and our members of the local community, to change direction and successfully combat this epidemic. Together, we can help prevent the tragic loss of life, family and community as a result of addiction through treatment, enforcement, and education. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York. The Congressman serves as a member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic in the House of Representatives, which focuses on finding solutions to this crisis, spreading awareness and increasing educational efforts.
09.18.2016	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin, member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement in response to the bombings in New York City and New Jersey, as well as the stabbings in Minnesota: “While we await additional information as a result of the various investigations now underway, we are again reminded of how close to home the threat of terrorism exists and is increasing. Americans pray for the victims and their families and wish to express our deepest gratitude to our law enforcement and other first responders who run towards danger to keep the rest of us safe. I especially thank our NYPD police, firefighters and other first responders who took action immediately in response to last night’s bombing in Manhattan- securing the city and detecting another bomb before it went off which would have caused even more damage. In the hours and days ahead, we will continue to learn more facts about this terrorist attack on a busy night in one of the busiest cities in the country. New York City will always be a target and we must remain ever vigilant to protect our city and people.”
09.18.2016	Flanders, NY - On Saturday, September 17, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted a roundtable at the Big Duck in Flanders with Congressman Jason Chaffetz, Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and a small group of community leaders invited from the impacted area, regarding a proposal to create a new, unique zip code for the hamlets of Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton, in the Town of Southampton, three hamlets in the Town of Southampton that each currently share the same zip code, 11901, with the nearby Town of Riverhead, which causes a number of issues in the local community. According to research initiated by the concerned residents of these hamlets, there are currently 18 identical street names and 32 similar street names - and possibly more - that are shared between these Southampton hamlets and Riverhead Town. This causes a number of issues in the local community and makes things very confusing for postal carriers, which leads to mail and packages being delivered to the wrong address, and sometimes even being routed as far away as Flanders, New Jersey. Furthermore, sometimes these packages aren’t able to be delivered, with packages frequently being marked as “return to sender” or “address unknown.” In August 2015, Congressman Zeldin sent a letter to the Postmaster officially requesting that the hamlets of Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton, be assigned their own new, unique zip code in order to make them distinguishable from each other and from Riverhead Town. The Post Office, which denied the initial request that Congressman Zeldin then appealed, has since been unresponsive. With the Post Office unresponsive, Congressman Zeldin worked in Congress to secure a legislative proposal to address this issue. In July 2016, the Postal Service Reform Act of 2016, H.R. 5714 was introduced in the House by the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Chairman, Congressman Jason Chaffetz. Within this bill, Congressman Zeldin secured language that would mandate the hamlets of Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton, in the Town of Southampton, be assigned a new, unique zip code. The proposal in Section 211 of the bill, which can be found on pages 88-89, states that upon this legislation being signed into law, the Flanders, Northampton, and Riverside communities in the Town of Southampton, New York, will receive a single, unique ZIP code no later than September 30, 2017. This bill was passed out of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform on July 12, 2016 and now awaits further action by the House. The United States Postal Service is under the jurisdiction of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. At today’s round table, Chairman Chaffetz also spoke about another parallel course of action to pursue that could work to get the Postal Service to create this unique zip code. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “I thank Chairman Chaffetz for joining us today to hear firsthand from community leaders about the importance of securing a new zip code for Flanders, Northampton and Riverside. The delay of deliveries caused by this issue is not just a nuisance to the local community, but can also greatly impact quality of life. These packages can hold important goods like medications, which are critical for a person's health and well-being. They can also cause major problems for police, first responders, and other emergency personnel, who may arrive at the wrong address due to these shared street names with the same zip code. For residents of these three hamlets, this has been a top priority for several years. I will work closely with them and Chairman Chaffetz to get this fixed.”
09.16.2016	Washington, DC – On September 14, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, during the committee markup of H.R. 5931, the Prohibiting Future Ransom Payments to Iran Act, introduced an amendment, which was approved into the underlying bill by voice vote. Congressman Zeldin’s amendment can be viewed here. During the hearing, Congressman Zeldin referenced a federal law enacted in 2000, which details a very specific requirement regarding payments to Iran from the Foreign Military Sales (FMS) Program account, which was directly violated by President Obama's $1.7 billion cash payment to Iran. After the 1979 Iranian Revolution and prior to the 2000 law, U.S. victims of Iranian-sponsored terrorism sued the Iranian government in U.S. court, with claims regarding deaths, injuries and damages caused by Iran’s terrorist activities. For years, these victims tried to resolve their claims, unfortunately without closure. The claims were eventually paid by the U.S. government and Congress required in a new law that the claims should be paid back to the U.S. government from the frozen FMS funds prior to any funds being paid to Iran from that account. In 2000, Congress passed the Trafficking and Violence Protection Act (Public Law 106–386). Section 2002(c), Subrogation, reads: "Upon payment under subsection (a) with respect to payments in connection with a Foreign Military Sales Program account, the United States shall be fully subrogated, to the extent of the payments, to all rights of the person paid under that subsection against the debtor foreign state. The President shall pursue these subrogated rights as claims or offsets of the United States in appropriate ways, including any negotiation process which precedes the normalization of relations between the foreign state designated as a state sponsor of terrorism and the United States, except that no funds shall be paid to Iran, or released to Iran, from property blocked under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act or from the Foreign Military Sales Fund, until such subrogated claims have been dealt with to the satisfaction of the United States." Congressman Zeldin said, “Some people blindly loyal to this President will say that this $1.7 billion ransom payment was Iran’s money. No it wasn’t. This was a disputed claim for decades for good reason. Nor did it by U.S. federal law have precedence over the subrogated and approved claims of American victims of Iranian terror. In fact, federal law specifically states just the opposite. When the American victims accepted payments for their claims from the U.S., their claims were subrogated to the United States, meaning that their claims against Iran became the United States’ claims against Iran. Even though the 2000 law clearly states that “no funds shall be paid to Iran, or released to Iran … from the Foreign Military Sales Fund, until such subrogated claims have been dealt with to the satisfaction of the United States,” President Obama paid Iran the full $400 million amount from the FMS fund, plus more than three times that amount in interest – a total of 1.7 billion dollars in cash – apparently without requiring Iran to pay anything to the American victims of Iran's terrorism: A direct violation of the 2000 law.” You can watch Congressman Zeldin's remarks on this topic at the House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing here. Earlier in the hearing, Congressman Zeldin debated Congressman Brad Sherman (D-CA) about the $1.7 billion cash ransom payment to Iran. You can watch the exchange here.
09.15.2016	Washington, DC — On Thursday, September 14, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) received the “Small Business Guardian Award” from the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) in recognition of his work in Congress to help grow our economy and protect small businesses. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, receiving his award from NFIB President and CEO, Juanita Duggan, left.
09.14.2016	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, debated Congressman Brad Sherman (D-CA) during a committee markup of H.R. 5931, the Prohibiting Future Ransom Payments to Iran Act; legislation that Congressman Zeldin cosponsors, which would prohibit any future cash payments to the Government of Iran. During this exchange, Congressman Zeldin stated that the $1.7 billion cash ransom payment to Iran was a disputed claim for good reason and shouldn’t have been paid. In addition to Iran's disputed claims against the United States were outstanding disputed claims of the United States against Iran. You can watch the exchange here.
09.13.2016	Washington, DC – On September 13, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, joined with Congressional colleagues, veterans and advocate groups in front of the U.S. Capitol, to urge for passage of the Fairness for Veterans Act (H.R. 4683); bipartisan legislation that Congressman Zeldin cosponsors and helped introduced in the House, which will assist veterans with less than honorable discharges to receive access to screening services at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for the purpose of diagnosing mental health disorders. In recent years, tens of thousands of service members suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) have received less than honorable discharges related to these mental health conditions. As a result, combat veterans with these “bad paper discharges” can be denied access to federally-funded benefits and health care services. The bipartisan Fairness for Veterans Act will make it easier for combat veterans to get their PTSD or TBI diagnosed and treated, as well as upgrade their discharge status by creating a presumption in their favor – so that if a combat veteran who has been diagnosed with PTSD or TBI appeals his or her discharge designation, military Discharge Review Boards (DRBs) must consider the appeal with the presumption that this condition contributed to the veteran’s discharge. In June 2016, the Senate adopted language from the Fairness for Veterans Act as an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2017. Now, both the House and Senate will go to conference to resolve any remaining differences in their two versions of the NDAA bill. Today, Congressional colleagues expressed their support for the language of the Fairness for Veterans Act to be included in the final conference report that will be voted on in the House and Senate, and then sent to the President to be signed into law. The Fairness for Veterans Act has 25 cosponsors in the House and has earned the support of several organizations, including the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), Disabled American Veterans (DAV), Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA), Vietnam Veterans of America (VVA), United Soldiers and Sailors of America, and Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA).
09.13.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, announced the details of the upcoming field hearing on Long Island regarding Northport VA. On Tuesday, September 20, 2016, at 9 AM, the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee will host a field hearing entitled, “An Assessment of Deficiencies at the Northport VA Medical Center” at the Northport VA Medical Center Auditorium, 79 Middleville Road, Northport, NY 11768. Regarding the hearing, Congressman Zeldin said, “There are more questions than answers regarding a number of serious allegations at the Northport VA. I hear from many Long Islanders with perspectives across the spectrum, which have included some very positive feedback regarding the Northport VA. Unfortunately, in the last few months since the broken HVAC story first emerged, we have received way too many very serious allegations that need to be addressed. The Department of Veterans Affairs is only contributing to this uncertainty by stonewalling congressional efforts to investigate. I am hopeful that the upcoming field hearing at the Northport VA on September 20, 2016 will help bring the public and Congress the answers that we need. The investigation will continue until all the facts are at hand and the allegations are addressed. Ensuring our veterans have only the highest quality of care must always be a highest priority."
09.13.2016	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) sent a letter today to Secretary of Defense Ash Carter and Director of the Air National Guard Lieutenant General Stanley E. Clarke III calling for the Department of Defense to assume all costs associated with connecting to the municipal water supply all homes affected by perfluorooctane sulfonic acid (PFOS) contamination. Recently, at least seven private wells adjacent to Gabreski Air National Guard Base tested positive for PFOS exposure. At least four of the wells were over the 0.07 ppb lifetime limit established by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Congressman Zeldin sent a letter stating that since it is clear that these chemicals were introduced into the groundwater supply through the use of industrial strength firefighting foam during past training exercises at Gabreski Air National Guard Base, it is imperative that the Department of Defense and Air National Guard continue to work with the state and local government to ensure that all impacted residents have access to safe and clean drinking water. You can view a copy of the letter here: Zeldin letter to DoD on PFOS.pdf
09.12.2016	Southampton, NY - On Sunday, September 11, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke at the North Sea Community Association (NSCA) 9/11 Commemoration Ceremony.
09.12.2016	Flanders, NY - On Sunday, September 11, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke at a 9/11 Memorial Service hosted by the Flanders Fire Department.
09.12.2016	Nesconset, NY - On Sunday, September 11, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke at the 9/11 ceremony at the 25th Annual Nesconset Day Craft & Street Fair.
09.12.2016	Smithtown, NY - On Sunday, September 11, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) and his family attended the “Heros for Heroes” event where Panico’s Butcher Shop and Deli provided 2,000 sandwiches to first responders. Congressman Zeldin, his wife, Diana, and twin daughters, Arianna and Mikayla, are pictured above with the Panico family.
09.12.2016	Rocky Point, NY - On Sunday, September 11, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke at the 9/11 Memorial Ceremony hosted by the Rocky Point Fire Department.
09.12.2016	Riverhead, NY - On Saturday, September 10, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, attended the annual pig roast hosted by the Riverhead American Legion Post #273. Congressman Zeldin, center, is pictured above with Riverhead Town Councilman John Dunleavy, second from left, and other attendees of the event.
09.12.2016	With the recently passed 15th anniversary of the September 11, 2001 terror attacks, we are reminded of the brave police, firefighters and other first responders who rushed into the burning towers and assisted their fellow Americans. Many of these heroes suffer today from illnesses caused at the scene. These brave men and women put their lives on the line each and every day to keep our communities safe and we must honor and support them for their acts of selfless courage and community leadership. Supporting these fellow Americans must always be a top priority. In Congress, I was proud to cosponsor and help lead the successful fight to permanently reauthorize the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, which provides necessary healthcare to our 9/11 first responders. The Zadroga Act, which was originally passed in 2010, established the World Trade Center Health Program and the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund. In 2015, with the healthcare fund expiring, an immediate reauthorization was critical to ensure continued healthcare for our first responders. This permanent extension was a huge victory for 9/11 first responders that ensures that these brave American heroes receive the care they need for years to come, and provides them and their families with peace of mind. After 9/11, we vowed to never forget; this is a critical way we can remember and help all of those who showed enormous amounts of courage and bravery in the aftermath of the attack on America. In addition to support for our 9/11 first responders, I have also been a strong supporter of bipartisan legislation that will provide assistance to our police, firefighters and other first responders. Earlier this year, the House passed a series of bills in support of police officers. Some of these bills include the Fallen Heroes Flag Act of 2016 (S. 2755), which honors our fallen brothers and sisters killed in the line of duty, the Federal Law Enforcement Self-Defense and Protection Act (H.R. 2137) and Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Program Reauthorization Act (S. 125), both of which ensure that law enforcement officers have the resources they need to protect and defend themselves while on and off duty. I also cosponsor the Volunteer Emergency Responders Tax Deduction Act (H.R. 343), and Volunteer Responder Incentive Protection Act (H.R. 2752), to provide much needed assistance to police and first responders. Additionally, I have also cosponsored legislation in the House, the Firefighter Cancer Registry Act (H.R. 4625), which has over 100 bipartisan cosponsors and would establish a federal system to monitor and collect data regarding the connection between cancer and firefighting. Three out of five line-of-duty deaths are estimated to be the result of cancer. Researching this growing trend is necessary to best protect our firefighters. Recently, across our country, our police have been targeted in deadly attacks. There is absolutely no excuse for any hateful act against any of our police or other first responders. All lives matter. All Americans, regardless of race, gender, socio economic status, or religion, must join together in these trying times for our nation to move forward stronger. There should be no divide between police and the citizens they serve. Our police officers and first responders merit our unwavering appreciation as loyal Americans, and we must stand with them. I will continue working in Congress to protect them, just as they support us each and every day. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York. In Congress, Rep. Zeldin serves on the House Veterans Affairs Committee, Foreign Affairs Committee, and Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. He is also a member of the House Fire Services Caucus.
09.11.2016	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) issued the following statement today on the 15th anniversary of September 11th, 2001: “Today, we honor and remember all those who were murdered during the horrific acts of terror 15 years ago that claimed the lives of thousands of innocent Americans on September 11, 2001. We also thank our police and other first responders who rushed to the scene to help their fellow Americans without a second of hesitation, and praise the brave men and women of our Armed Forces, who serve each and every day to defend our nation, freedoms and liberties. America has always been viewed as a threat to evil. While we frequently hear and read about terrorist attacks abroad, we have a very real, ongoing homeland security threat here within our own border, which is why we must remain ever vigilant in the fight against terror, to defend our democracy and American values from those individuals and groups wanting to take away everything that makes our nation the greatest country in the world. We remember the sacrifices of all Americans, and in their honor, we will continue to believe strongly in the message of freedom and opportunity for all."
09.09.2016	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) today announced $599,532 has been granted to Stony Brook University to conduct their Personality-Informed Care Model for the 9/11-related Comorbid Conditions study that will research the correlation between personality and medical and psychiatric illnesses, specifically among 9/11 first responders, in an attempt to help improve the service and patient care offered at the World Trade Center (WTC) Health Program and elsewhere. Congressman Zeldin said, “Stony Brook University is a leader in the research and technology field, and I am proud to announce that this funding will go towards an important study regarding personality and the impact it has on mental health, especially among our first responders. This study is an important initiative to not only help improve healthcare for our police and first responders, but its success can also be replicated around the country for all Americans. In Congress, one of the top priorities should be to fight for our first responders and improve healthcare for all and I will continue supporting all efforts that do so.” “This study and the funding to support it will help us understand why some responders continue to suffer from medical and psychiatric illnesses many years after the disaster and will test promising new approaches to helping them,” said Roman Kotov, PhD, Associate Professor of Psychiatry at Stony Brook University School of Medicine and principal investigator. The funding was secured through the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Heath.
09.07.2016	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, announced today that the public comment period for the Fire Island to Montauk Point (FIMP) Project, which is now a $1.16 billion project that contains funding for essential dredging and shoreline projects across NY-1, has been extended. The public comment period, which was previously set to end on September 29, 2016, was extended to October 19, 2016. With the last hearing taking place only one day before the September 29, 2016 deadline for public comment, Congressman Zeldin sent a letter last week to U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Commander, Colonel David Caldwell, formally requesting an extension of the deadline for public comments, which you can view a copy of here. Last week, Congressman Zeldin also announced the dates, times and locations for the four scheduled public hearings on Long Island to discuss the next phase of FIMP, which will be held: • September 14, 2016 for the Babylon and Islip area, at Islip Town Hall Annex, which is located at 655 Main St, Islip, NY 11751; • September 20, 2016 for the Brookhaven area at Patchogue Watch Hill Ferry Terminal, which is located at 150 West Ave, Patchogue, NY 11772; • September 27, 2016 for the Southampton area at Southampton University, which is located at 239 Montauk Hwy, Southampton, NY 11968; and • September 28, 2016 for the East Hampton/Montauk area, at Montauk Playhouse, which is located at 240 Edgemere St, Montauk, NY 11954. All four meetings will begin at 6:00 PM with a poster board session. The formal presentation will begin at 7:00 PM and will be followed by a moderated question and answer session. In addition to attending a public hearing, residents can also submit public comments by mail or email. The address is: The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, New York District, Planning Division-Environmental Branch (ATTN: Mr. Robert Smith) 26 Federal Plaza, New York, New York 10278-0090, or by email to: Project Biologist Robert.J.Smith@usace.army.mil and Project Manager Mark.f.Lulka@usace.army.mil. Congressman Zeldin said, “In Congress, I have been fighting to secure the many victories coming to our district as a result of the FIMP project, which covers a distance of 83 miles, 80% of which is in the First Congressional District. This critical project, which has been a long time coming, will greatly improve our environment, economy and coastal way of life on Long Island’s South Shore. I thank the Army Corps for extending the public comment period two weeks to allow South Fork residents to have more than 24 additional hours to comment after a public hearing. I also thank the Army Corps for their continued responsiveness and attention to detail in ensuring the priorities of my constituents receive the highest consideration. It is so important that the residents of the South Shore participate in the public comment period to ensure that their voices are heard and any requests are received.” On August 18, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin was joined by local elected officials and community leaders at Westhampton Beach Village Hall to discuss many of the key components of the Draft General Reevaluation Report, or GRR, which was released in July of 2016, and specifies which projects will be included in the next phase of the FIMP Project. You can watch the full press conference here.
09.05.2016	Montauk, NY — On Sunday, September 4, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) and his family visited the historic Montauk Point Lighthouse, which is the oldest lighthouse in New York State, authorized by President George Washington in 1792. The Congressman is pictured above with his wife, Diana, and twin daughters, Arianna and Mikayla.
09.05.2016	Bridgehampton, NY — On Sunday, September 4, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the 2016 Hamptons Classic, one of the largest outdoor horse shows in the United States. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with Mt. Sinai residents, former New York Jets Safety Erik Coleman, right, and his wife, Sabrina Gardner, center.
09.05.2016	Since our nation’s founding, America has been blessed with brave men and women who have answered the call to serve to protect and defend our freedom. In return, President Lincoln once remarked, “With malice toward none, with charity for all, with firmness in the right as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in, to bind up the nation's wounds, to care for him who shall have borne the battle and for his widow and his orphan, to do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among ourselves and with all nations.” Unfortunately, as we have recently seen with too many examples throughout our nation, much more work remains to be done. The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) in recent years has been plagued with many challenges nationwide, ranging from secret wait lists, overmedicating patients, falsifying records, abusing the Relocation and Incentive Bonus program and massive budgetary overruns. Meanwhile, it is estimated that 22 veterans per day take their own life, which is so completely unacceptable and avoidable. At the Philadelphia VA, over 30,000 calls placed by veterans to that medical center were not responded to for hundreds of days. The lack of accountability and corrective action have caused the problems to multiply. In May of this year, media reported that the operating rooms of the Northport VA, which serve veterans all across Long Island, had been closed since February due to issues with an outdated HVAC system. Over the past few months, since this news first broke, my office has been contacted by several Long Islanders regarding serious allegations about the Northport VA. Upon review of these complaints from veterans, whistleblowers and other stakeholders, my office shared this information with the House Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations in order to conduct a full and fair review of the information at hand. Through the years, I have received a very wide range of feedback regarding service at the Northport VA, including many who have provided nothing but the highest level of praise for the treatment and care they have received there. With that being said, any and all allegations regarding the care of our nation’s veterans must be taken very seriously, and as such, I took immediate steps to involve the appropriate parties to review these troubling allegations. As a result of these allegations, the committee will be holding a field hearing on September 20, 2016 here on Long Island to see first-hand what must be done to better care for our veterans. Congress’ investigation will continue until all the facts are in hand, and we have ensured that all Long Island veterans are receiving the appropriate care and respect that they have earned and deserve. While I believe that almost all VA employees genuinely and deeply care about the work they do for our nation’s veterans, we must always ensure that those who don’t either correct their poor performance or are replaced. Additionally, it is especially important that technology and other systems in place are operating as efficiently as possible and infrastructure does not fall into a failing state of disrepair. Our veterans deserve to settle for nothing less. Congressman Lee Zeldin, an Army veteran who continues to serve today as a Major in the Army Reserves, represents the First Congressional District of New York. In Congress, Rep. Zeldin serves on the House Veterans Affairs Committee. His district encompasses most of Suffolk County, which has the highest concentration of veterans in New York State, and second highest concentration of veterans in all counties across the country.
09.02.2016	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, announced the date, time and location for the scheduled public hearing in Southold to discuss the Hashamomuck Cove project. The Congressman also encouraged residents to participate in the public comment period that has already begun and is set to end on September 30, 2016. The public hearing is scheduled for September 19, 2016 at 6 PM and will take place at the Southold Town Meeting Hall, which is located at 53095 Main Road, Southold, NY 11971. In addition to attending the public hearing, residents can also submit public comments by mail to: Ms. Judith Johnson, the Project Biologist, at the New England District Corps of Engineers, 696 Virginia Road, Concord, MA 01742-2751, or by e-mail to: Judith.L.Johnson@usace.army.mil. “I very strongly encourage the public to participate in the public comment period, which is open now,” Congressman Zeldin said. “The Hashamomuck Cove project is important to protect local homes, businesses and infrastructure, including County Road 48. Completion of this project will help protect the Hashamomuck Cove community from the next major storm, which could happen at any time and could potentially lead to serious property destruction and the loss of County Road 48. It is so important for the public to get involved in the public comment period by attending the hearing, writing a letter, or sending an email. I will continue working with the Army Corps and potential non-federal sponsors to make sure that this project is completed.” On August 25, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin was joined by local elected officials and community residents in Southold to discuss the release of the Hashamomuck Cove draft Feasibility Study and the proposed project that is planned to begin there, which you can read more about here.
09.01.2016	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, announced the dates, times and locations for the four scheduled public hearings on Long Island to discuss the next phase of the Fire Island to Montauk Point (FIMP) Project, which is now a $1.16 billion project that contains funding for essential dredging and shoreline projects across NY-1. The four public hearings will be held: • September 14, 2016 for the Babylon and Islip area, at Islip Town Hall Annex, which is located at 655 Main St, Islip, NY 11751; • September 20, 2016 for the Brookhaven area at Patchogue Watch Hill Ferry Terminal, which is located at 150 West Ave, Patchogue, NY 11772; • September 27, 2016 for the Southampton area at Southampton University, which is located at 239 Montauk Hwy, Southampton, NY 11968; and • September 28, 2016 for the East Hampton/Montauk area, at Montauk Playhouse, which is located at 240 Edgemere St, Montauk, NY 11954. All four meetings will begin at 6:00 PM with a poster board session. The formal presentation will begin at 7:00 PM and will be followed by a moderated question and answer session. In addition to attending a public hearing, residents can also submit public comments by mail or email. The address is: The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, New York District, Planning Division-Environmental Branch (ATTN: Mr. Robert Smith) 26 Federal Plaza, New York, New York 10278-0090, or by email to: Project Biologist Robert.J.Smith@usace.army.mil and Project Manager Mark.f.Lulka@usace.army.mil. The public comment period is set to end on September 29, 2016. With the last hearing taking place only one day before, Congressman Zeldin sent a letter today to U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Commander, Colonel David Caldwell, formally requesting a two week extension of the deadline for public comments. You can view a copy of the letter here: 9_1_16_Letter to Colonel David Caldwell.pdf Congressman Zeldin said, “Since first taking office, I have been fighting to secure the many victories coming to NY-1 as a result of the draft GRR. The FIMP project, which covers a distance of 83 miles, 80% of which is in the First Congressional District, has been a long time coming and will greatly improve our environment, economy and coastal way of life on Long Island’s South Shore. I strongly encourage the residents of the South Shore to get involved in the process and participate in the public comment period to ensure that their voices are heard and requests are received. The Army Corps needs and wants to hear from the public. With the last proposed hearing confirmed for just one day prior to the end of the public comment period, I have officially called on the Army Corps to extend the public comment period for two weeks. South fork residents deserve and need more than 24 additional hours to comment after a public hearing. It is so important that every member of the public has their opportunity to weigh in on this process before the comment period ends and the final project is planned.” On August 18, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin was joined by local elected officials and community leaders at Westhampton Beach Village Hall to discuss many of the key components of the Draft General Reevaluation Report, or GRR, which was released in July of 2016, and specifies which projects will be included in the next phase of the FIMP Project. You can watch the full press conference here.
08.31.2016	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY 1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, announced today that the Committee will be conducting a field hearing on Long Island regarding the Northport VA on September 20, 2016. Congressman Zeldin said, “Over the past few months, since news first broke regarding the faulty HVAC system at the Northport VA, my office has been contacted by several Long Islanders regarding allegations pertaining to the Northport VA. Any allegations regarding the care of our veterans must be taken very seriously, which is why my office has shared this information with the House Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations in order to conduct a full and fair review of the information at hand. Amid a chorus of complaints and allegations from veterans, whistleblowers and other stakeholders, there are more questions than answers regarding a number of issues at the Northport VA. The VA is contributing to this uncertainty by stonewalling congressional efforts to investigate, as evidenced by the department’s lack of response to Chairman Miller’s July 29 letter, which you can view below. That is why the committee will be holding a field hearing on September 20, 2016 on Long Island. My office will continue to maintain communication with the individuals who contacted us and we are working with the committee to ensure they have all of the information that they need to investigate. Congress’ investigation will continue until all the facts are at hand. Ensuring our veterans have only the highest quality of care is one of my highest priorities in Congress.” A copy of Chairman Miller’s July 29 letter can be viewed here: CJM letter to SecVa re Northport Facility.pdf
08.31.2016	Commack, NY – On Tuesday, August 30, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was joined by local elected officials, staff of United Cerebral Palsy (UCP) of Long Island, residents from UCP of Long Island’s 31 homes, advocates for individuals with disabilities, and members of the community, at The Children’s Center at United Cerebral Palsy (UCP) of Long Island, a school for students with developmental disabilities, to call for Congressional passage of his must pass bill to protect individuals with disabilities by ensuring they have access to vital equipment (H.R. 3229). Congressman Zeldin’s legislation, which clarifies the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act (MIPPA) of 2008, is a critical measure to secure the essential specialized power wheelchairs and manual wheelchairs and accessories services relied on by disabled individuals and their families. You can watch the full press conference here. When the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act (MIPPA) of 2008 was passed and signed into law, it stated that complex rehabilitation technology devices would be excluded from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Competitive Bidding Program. Excluded devices include power wheelchairs and the related accessories, which are the fundamental parts of the products that make them useful and beneficial to people with progressed disabilities—such as recline/tilt systems, specialty controls and seat/back cushions. In November 2014, CMS issued a ruling contrary to MIPPA, which stated that starting in January 2016, accessories that are used on complex rehabilitative wheelchairs would no longer be part of the fixed fee schedule, but would be subject to competitive bidding pricing. This ruling would be devastating for the disabled community, decreasing access to individually configured wheelchairs and accessories. In December 2015, Congress passed the Patient Access and Medicare Protection Act (S.2425), which provided a one year delay in the application of Medicare competitive bid pricing for complex rehab power wheelchairs and accessories to keep fees from rising anywhere at least 10% to 34%. Now, Congress must act again in 2016 to ensure that a more permanent fix is granted. The Congressman’s legislation, H.R. 3229, which has companion legislation in the Senate (S.2196), has strong bipartisan support in Congress with already over 135 House cosponsors. This legislation is also fully supported by the ALS Association, Muscular Dystrophy Association, National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Paralyzed Veterans of America, VetsFirst and United Spinal Association. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “Providing support for those who need it the most has been a principle Americans have stood by for generations. There is an urgent need for Congress to act now to ensure that Americans living with disabilities can access the complex rehabilitative equipment they require to meet their medical needs and to function at the highest level possible, allowing them to live independently and happily. On July 27, 2015, I introduced bipartisan legislation in the House, H.R. 3229, which would address this very time sensitive issue by ensuring that those with disabilities can access the complex rehabilitative equipment they require to meet their medical needs and to function at the highest level possible. In an effort to advance this legislation, I testified in support of my bill at a House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee hearing on June 8, 2016. In addition to this testimony, new information has been reported since the introduction of this bill, which only further supports our cause. An additional requirement of S. 2425’s passage was a report conducted by the Government Accountability Office, which detailed why costs would increase for consumers should they switch to the competitive bidding model. As a result of this report, new cost estimates are now being conducted to detail the significant sums of money that will be saved due to the implementation of this legislation. The GAO report highlighted that too much of the Competitive Bid Rate data is outdated, limited and insufficient for determining payment rates nationally. By applying Competitive Bid Pricing for accessories used with standard wheelchairs to those used with Complex Rehabilitative Technology wheelchairs, there will be misguided and massive payment reductions ranging from at least 10%-34% as a result. The bill has been referred to the House Ways and Means and House Energy and Commerce Committees. Before this bill can be brought to the House floor, it must pass out of one of these committees. Both the House and Senate must pass this legislation in 2016 to protect Americans dealing with the challenges from disabilities such as ALS, Cerebral Palsy, Multiple Sclerosis, Spinal Cord Injury, and many other debilitating illnesses. My bill is just one effort to help Americans with disabilities attain the self-sufficiency and independence we all cherish. I will continue working in Congress to provide support and care to help the many vulnerable adults and children living with disabilities.” LI Chapter of the National MS Society said, “The National Multiple Sclerosis Society urges Congress to pass H.R. 3229 by December 31st to ensure that people with progressed multiple sclerosis (MS) have access to essential components of their wheelchairs. “Accessories” are not optional features—they include head support and tilt-and-recline systems that are necessary for people with progressed MS to use their Complex Rehabilitation Technology (CRT), stay healthy and reduce overall healthcare costs. Representative Zeldin’s legislation protects access to both manual and power CRT accessories and we thank him for leadership on this issue.” The United Spinal Association said, “Regardless of disability, disease, illness or condition, all people with disabilities should be eligible for the same access to medically required mobility devices and services under Medicare. United Spinal Association urges Congress to pass H.R. 3229/S. 2196 by December 31, 2016 to ensure that critical components used with power and manual complex rehab technology are protected so that individuals with spinal cord injury and other neurological conditions and disabilities, including disabled veterans, maintain their independence, stay healthy and are able to participate in society as they wish. United Spinal thanks Congressman Zeldin for introducing this bill and for his leadership on this issue.” Maggie Goldberg, Vice President for Policy & Programs of the Christopher & Dana Reeve Foundation said, “The Christopher & Dana Reeve Foundation commends Congressman Zeldin for his leadership and efforts to protect access to mobility equipment. This legislation is critical for the millions of Americans living with disabilities who rely on specific equipment and accessories to maintain their health and independence. As we work to achieve true equality for all individuals living with paralysis, we must ensure our community has access to the wheelchairs, accessories and other technology that contribute to their overall quality of life. We hope that more members of Congress realize the importance of this issue and work together to drum up support for this legislation."
08.30.2016	Mastic, NY – On Monday, August 29, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted Mobile Office Hours at the Mastic Ambulance Company where constituents had individual meetings with the Congressman and his staff. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with Centereach resident, Kathi Mizrahi.
08.29.2016	One of the reasons why our country is the greatest country in the world is our recognition of the need to accommodate our most vulnerable citizens. Self-sufficiency and independence are values we all cherish as Americans. When our country was founded, a nation was envisioned in which anyone could succeed with enough hard work. This is a major reason to ensure that Americans with disabilities have the resources they need to live independently and happily. Congress honored this commitment in 1990 when it passed the Americans with Disabilities Act, which prohibits discrimination against disabled Americans in so many aspects of life so that they have a fair opportunity to succeed. We can and must do more. Under the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act (MIPPA) of 2008, complex rehabilitation technology devices would be excluded from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Competitive Bidding Program. Excluded devices include power wheelchairs and the related accessories, which are the fundamental parts of the products that make them useful and beneficial to people with progressed disabilities—such as recline/tilt systems, specialty controls and seat/back cushions. In November 2014, CMS issued a ruling contrary to MIPPA, which stated that starting in January 2016, accessories that are used on complex rehabilitative wheelchairs will no longer be part of the fixed fee schedule, but would be subject to competitive bidding pricing, which unfortunately has the practical effect of decreasing access to the individually configured wheelchairs and accessories relied on by adults and children with disabilities. In December 2015, Congress passed the Patient Access and Medicare Protection Act (S.2425), which provided a one year delay in the application of Medicare competitive bid pricing for complex rehab power wheelchairs and accessories. Now, Congress must act again before the end of this year to ensure that a more permanent fix is granted. Last year, I introduced legislation in the House, H.R. 3229, to address this very time sensitive issue, which now has over 135 bipartisan cosponsors as well as a Senate companion bill. My bill ensures that those with disabilities can access the complex rehabilitative equipment they require to meet their medical needs and to function at the highest level possible. In an effort to advance this legislation, I testified in support of my bill at a House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee hearing on June 8, 2016. Both the House and Senate must pass this legislation in 2016 to protect Americans dealing with the challenges from disabilities such as ALS, Cerebral Palsy, Multiple Sclerosis, Spinal Cord Injury, and many other debilitating illnesses. My bill is just one effort to help Americans with disabilities attain the self-sufficiency and independence we all cherish. We must continue to provide support and care to help the many vulnerable adults and children living with disabilities. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York.
08.29.2016	Riverhead, NY — On Saturday, August 27, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended VFW Post 2467’s chicken BBQ in Riverhead.
08.29.2016	Cutchogue, NY — On Saturday, August 27, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Cutchogue Fire Department's annual chicken BBQ. Pictured above, from left to right, are: Billy Mann, New York State Senator Ken LaValle, Congressman Zeldin and his wife, Diana Zeldin.
08.27.2016	Patchogue, NY - Congresman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, released the following statement after receiving a written response from the Northport VA Director, Philip Moschitta, about the veteran suicide that occurred last weekend in a Northport VA parking lot. “The loss of even a single veteran in America due to suicide is one too much. Most unfortunately, throughout our country, every day 22 veterans take their own life. It is so important to have the best possible understanding as to why these suicides keep happening. For me personally, I have lost more people I know due to suicide than in combat. Our veterans are returning home feeling isolated and alone and feeling like their family, friends and colleagues at work don't understand what it is that they are going through. What is especially tragic, especially here in Suffolk County, is that a veteran will feel isolated and alone even though there are literally thousands of others throughout our county who would move heaven and earth to shower a veteran in need with love, appreciation and support. While Peter Kaisen's death was clearly a suicide, it's also important to note that many veterans whose deaths are labeled a suicide weren't actually trying to kill themselves. PFC Joseph Dwyer's last words when he passed away in 2008 were "I don't want to die." He was looking for temporary relief to escape his pain, but he wasn't looking to leave behind a young widow and two year old daughter. PFC Dwyer is well known from an iconic photo from the start of the Iraq war that so many viewed all across America with Joe cradling a young Iraqi boy and helping him to safety. Joseph Dwyer returned home with the mental wounds of war. His legacy is remembered to this day through the creation of the PFC Joseph Dwyer Veterans Peer Support Program, which initially started in 4 counties in New York, including Suffolk, and now has spread to over a dozen counties across the state, including Nassau as well. This program creates a peer support setting where veterans are with other veterans and a trained mentor, which all serves as that important reminder that our nation's veterans shouldn't feel like they are alone. This program should be in every county in the United States. Losing one veteran as a result of suicide is unacceptable. Immediately after hearing about last weekend's suicide at the Northport VA, I contacted Northport VA Director Philip Moschitta to share my very deep concerns and request whatever details he could share on the situation. A copy of his response is below. As investigations into this suicide continue, I will continue to aggressively stay on top of this situation. After serving our country, and making countless sacrifices to protect our freedoms and liberties, our veterans deserve only the highest quality of care. What is so incredibly important to me and for others is to identify any specific ways at all that this veteran was under served so that it can be immediately and completely corrected in order for something very positive to result from this very tragic event. Every time a veteran takes his or her own life, the system has failed. R.I.P. Peter Kaisen” A copy of the letter from Director Moschitta can be read here: 8_26_16_Response from Northport VA Director Moschitta.pdf
08.26.2016	Patchogue, NY – On Thursday, August 25, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with members of the American Diabetes Association and Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation in his Patchogue office. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, center, with Frank Rina and Noreen Bradley, residents of East Hampton, NY.
08.26.2016	Patchogue, NY – On Thursday, August 25, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met in his Patchogue office with Frank Rivera, the President of Sarcoidosis of Long Island in Coram, and medical students from Stony Brook Hospital, to discuss support in Congress for funding to help cure rare diseases and how to increase overall awareness. Pictured above, from left to right, are: Stony Brook Hospital Medical Students: Rahul Roy, Xiao LI and Nuri Kim, Congressman Zeldin, and Frank Rivera.
08.26.2016	Hampton Bays, NY – On Sunday, August 21, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Hampton’s Offshore Invitational Tournament Awards Dinner benefiting Big Brothers Big Sisters at Oakland’s Marina in Hampton Bays. At the event, over $240,000 was raised to help children and families facing adversity. Pictured above, from left to right, are: Congressman Zeldin, Mark Cox, the CEO of Big Brothers Big Sisters of Long Island, Southampton Trustee Scott Horowitz, and Christopher Grzymala, an attendee of the event.
08.25.2016	Southold, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, was joined in Southold today by local elected officials and community residents to discuss the release of the Hashamomuck Cove draft Feasibility Study and the proposed project that is planned to begin there. The Congressman also encouraged residents to participate in the public comment period that has already begun. On August 12, 2016, the U.S. Army of Corps of Engineers released the Draft Integrated Feasibility Report & Environmental Assessment, which outlines the proposed coastal storm risk management project for Hashamomuck Cove in Southold. The proposed project, which is currently estimated to cost $17,749,000, would encompass 1.5 miles of developed coast on the Long Island Sound, including 58 residential structures and 2 commercial properties. This stretch of land is heavily prone to substantial overwashing and erosion during coastal storms. Congressman Zeldin highlighted the details of the project, announcing that the proposed project, which is broken down into three parts: the West Cove, Central Cove, and East Cove, includes plans to build a 25-foot berm in the West Cove, a variable-width berm between 25 to 75 feet in the Central Cove, and a 25-foot berm in the East Cove. Overall, 160,000 cubic yards of sand would fill the coastline, including 34,000 cubic yards in the West Cove, 56,000 cubic yards in the Central Cove, and 70,000 cubic yards in the East Cove. The initial planning and engineering costs will be covered 100% federally. The initial construction cost share will be 65% federal with a 35% non-federal partner at the town, county and/or state level. The cost of re-nourishment over the long term, 50 year life of the project will be shared 50% federal and 50% non-federal. Congressman Zeldin also encouraged residents to participate in the public hearing that has been scheduled at Southold Town Hall on the evening of September 19, 2016. He also announced that the comment period has been extended to September 30, 2016. Residents can also submit public comments by mail to: Ms. Judith Johnson, the Project Biologist, at the New England District Corps of Engineers, 696 Virginia Road, Concord, MA 01742-2751, or by e-mail to: Judith.L.Johnson@usace.army.mil. Congressman Zeldin said, “Completion of the project at Hashamomuck Cove is not only important to protect homes and businesses, but also to safeguard our infrastructure, including County Road 48, a critical roadway for transportation, the economy, as well as a critical evacuation route in the case of an emergency. This project is not just important to complete before the next tropical storm or hurricane; a severe thunderstorm mixed with high tide, which could happen at any time could lead to serious property destruction and the loss of County Road 48. I will continue working with the Army Corps, town, county and state officials to finalize funding plans for this project. Over the next few weeks, I very strongly encourage the public to participate in the public comment period, which is open now. There will be a public hearing that will take place at Southold Town Hall on September 19th. The exact time has not yet been confirmed. Once the public comment period closes on September 30th, all of the public comments will be considered for incorporation in the final report and submitted to the Army Corps Chief for his approval by April 2017. The current scheduled timeline is that a Project Partnership Agreement will be executed with the non-federal sponsor by July 2017 and the contract will be awarded by January 2018. Construction is then expected to begin in 2018. The tentative timeline for construction is estimated to take approximately 7-10 months. As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, in an effort to ensure its completion in 2018, it’s my priority to get this plan attached to the next Water Resources and Development Act that passes Congress. The Water Resources and Development Act (otherwise known as WRDA) approves of Army Corps projects. By including this plan in WRDA, the project will officially be signed off on by Congress. I would like to thank the Army Corps for their efforts and I strongly ask that they give the highest consideration to the priorities of the elected officials and residents who will participate in this public comment period. This project is so important to the Hashamomuck Cove community, which is why it is so important that the public be heavily engaged in this process over this next month.” New York State Assemblyman Anthony Palumbo said, “Great work by Congressman Zeldin to keep the Hashamomuck Cove Infrastructure Project moving forward. Reducing coastal storm and erosion risks to our infrastructure is obviously of great concern to our East End residents and property owners. The preservation of our shoreline and our estuaries is critical to maintain our water quality as well as our way of life.” Southold Town Supervisor Scott Russell said, “Southold is a coastal community and protecting our coastline is essential to protecting our communities. The completion of the Hashamomuck Cove Study was a vital first step in the effort to protect a cove from eroding to a point where it would be unrecoverable. The efforts of Rep. Zeldin were key to getting us to where we are today. The work is not done, however, and it is important for the public to have their voices heard during the public comment period to ensure that this critical project keeps moving forward.” Southold Town Councilwoman Jill Doherty said, “I have been involved with this project from the beginning and am so pleased that it’s finally getting to this point. Thanks to Congressman Lee Zeldin. This project is not only important for the residents at Hashamomuck to save their homes that have been in their families for generations, but also for everyone else that lives, visits, and passes through Southold to get to Connecticut by the ferry. Southold Town is unique having only two roads in and out of the Town. It’s imperative that we all work together to protect this area from future loss.” Lynn Laskos, Chairman of the Hashamomuck Cove Group, said, “The families of Hashamomuck Cove Group are the only buffers between County Road 48 and the Long Island Sound. We thank Congressman Zeldin for standing with us and understanding the urgency and importance County Road 48 has to all of the residents, businesses and tourists who use it every day. We are proud to stand here with him for the release of the Feasibility Study.”
08.24.2016	Westhampton, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, and Senator Chuck Schumer announced a $4.83 million grant in federal funding for Francis Gabreski Airport in Westhampton, home of the 106th Rescue Wing of the Air National Guard. The grant is being provided to Suffolk County for the rehabilitation of runway 15/33 at Gabreski Airport. The $4.83 million grant will fund repairs to the runway, which has severe cracking, patched potholes, and is beyond its useful life. About 40% of the runway length has already been repaired utilizing prior funding that Congressman Zeldin and Senator Schumer helped secure for Gabreski Airport last September. Congressman Zeldin said, “This second phase of funding will provide the resources necessary to fix the entire runway at Gabreski Airport. This federal grant is especially necessary to support the 106th Rescue Wing of the New York Air National Guard, which plays a crucial role to protect our national security and New York's emergency response capabilities. Since taking office, my staff and I have been working closely on this initiative to help secure the funding necessary to see this effort moving forward so positively." "Keeping Gabreski Airport in top-notch shape is crucial to our region and the entire state," said U.S. Senator Charles Schumer. “With this federal funding, Gabreski Airport will be able to make the critical upgrades necessary to ensure its runway is cleared for take-off and safe for the courageous service members of the 106th Rescue Wing of the New York Air National Guard." “Funding the second phase of this project is critical to ensuring the safety of the men and women of the 106th Air Rescue Wing and other users of Gabreski Airport,” Suffolk County Executive Steve Bellone said. “Once again, I thank the members of our federal delegation—Senators Schumer and Gillibrand and Congressman Zeldin—for their hard work to secure these needed funds. This is an important project for a critical regional asset.”
08.22.2016	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, was joined by Riverhead Town Supervisor Sean Walter, Southold Town Supervisor Scott Russell, Riverhead Town Councilman Tim Hubbard, and local elected officials at Riverhead Town Hall to provide an update following a meeting with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) regarding North Fork aircraft noise and the North Shore Route. The meeting between Congressman Zeldin, Supervisor Walter, Supervisor Russell, Councilman Hubbard, and FAA officials took place today at Long Island Macarthur Airport in Islip. Congressman Zeldin said, “On July 23, after repeated follow up from myself, my office, the House Subcommittee on Aviation, other elected officials, and countless concerned citizens on the East End, the FAA quietly announced a four year extension of the North Shore Route against the will of the people and without a transparent process or public comment period; an unacceptable example of incompetence and arrogance on the part of faceless, unelected and unaccountable federal bureaucrats. Summer after summer, North Fork residents have had their quality of life greatly reduced by the persistent issue of helicopter noise on the East End. At the meeting, we urged the FAA to mandate that the North Shore Route extend past and around Orient Point and for the hold to be lifted on creating a mandatory South Shore Route. The FAA and Department of Transportation have sole jurisdiction over the aircraft routes and it is incumbent upon these federal agencies to handle this power with responsibility and responsiveness to the public. In addition, the FAA must enforce the local level strict flight standards and offshore requirements for aircraft bound for the East End to help mitigate disruptive noise. The punishment of violators will also show the community that the agency tasked with aviation safety is doing its job. In October of last year, I clearly stated to FAA Administrator Huerta that the North Shore route should be extended for no longer than one year, with an extensive strengthening of altitude requirements and enforcement of flight standards, and a true all water route over the Atlantic Ocean as the permanent solution. Calls of the public and their representatives have been flatly ignored. The FAA is treating the American public as if it is the enemy. This conduct is absurd and unacceptable, and it must be reformed. All options remain on the table to stop this destructive ruling, including possible litigation from the Town of Southold and legislation that would cut off any FAA funding to implement it. In 2015, the FAA was threatening to take negative action against the Town of East Hampton for the enactment of aircraft noise restrictions. I then got a legislative proposal passed in the House to protect East Hampton against retaliation by the FAA. I am willing to pursue any option necessary to get this resolved. North fork residents cannot afford to have yet another season ruined by disruptive noise. This is an important quality of life concern that must be resolved immediately.”
08.22.2016	Center Moriches, NY – On Sunday, August 21, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the 50th Anniversary Celebration of the Jewish Center of the Moriches, which is located in Center Moriches. Pictured above, from left to right, are Brookhaven Town Councilman Dan Panico, Congressman Lee Zeldin, Temple Trustee Larry Kiss, Temple Cantor and Spiritual Leader Zachary Konigsberg, Temple President Michael Leselrod, and Brookhaven Town Supervisor Ed Romaine.
08.22.2016	Riverhead, NY – On Saturday, August 20, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the 42nd Annual Polish Town Fair in Riverhead, where he met with Riverhead Town residents. Pictured above, from left to right, are Riverhead Town Councilwoman Jodi Giglio, Riverhead Town Supervisor Sean Walter, Polish Town Civic Association Past Presidents Claire Latour and Marianne Trubish, Congressman Lee Zeldin, New York State Senator Kenneth LaValle, Miss Polish Town USA Queen Stephanie Ann Clark, and runner up Kelly Cichanowicz.
08.22.2016	West Babylon, NY – On Sunday, August 21, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, presented a Bronze Star Medal to Korean War Veteran Warren Wilkins. Sergeant First Class Wilkins, previously a resident of the Town of Islip who currently resides in Berkshire Nursing and Rehabilitation Center, was previously denied veteran status by the Department of Veterans Affairs after his military records were accidentally destroyed in a fire. After Congressman Zeldin helped reinstate his military status, SFC Wilkins was finally presented with his Bronze Star Medal. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, presenting the Bronze Star to SFC Wilkins, right.
08.22.2016	The Antiquities Act was passed by Congress in 1906 and signed into law by President Teddy Roosevelt in an effort to preserve American land after the pillage and destruction of a number of Native American and archaeological sites in the Southwest United States. The Antiquities Act is one of the most important pieces of conservation legislation in our nation’s history, providing the President with the sole power to declare National Monuments on federal land for the purposes of historical and natural preservation and waters. These sites often become part of the National Parks Systems under the care of the National Parks Service which is tasked with the protection of all of our valuable monuments. Throughout its history, the Antiquities Act has had bipartisan support and has been used by 13 Presidents. The preservation of the Statue of Liberty, Death Valley and Grand Canyon are just a few of the monumental and historic American sites that were saved through the Antiquities Act. However, for fishermen on Long Island and nationwide, the current administration’s overzealous and overly broad interpretation of this law is causing great concern. Recent Marine Monument designations proclaimed by the Obama Administration have been the largest in U.S. history, locking out fishing in perpetuity—a severe departure from the original intent of the Antiquities Act to preserve historical sites and archeological treasures. In 2014, President Obama declared a 490,000 square mile area of water in the Pacific Ocean as a National Marine Monument after receiving little public input and through a process where transparency was severely lacking. As a result of this new monument, recreational fishing was severely limited and commercial fishing was completely banned, hurting fishermen in the Pacific Ocean. Now, important fishing areas in the Northwest Atlantic, where fishermen from Greenport, Montauk, and throughout the entire New York and New England region have worked for centuries, are under consideration for a National Marine Monument designation by the current administration. As the President is pushing to apply this power to large areas of ocean in the Northwest Atlantic, he is threatening to shutdown thousands of square miles of ocean from Long Island fishermen through abuse of the Antiquities Act. Twice in this seminal law’s history, in 1943 and 1980, Congress had to step in to reign in abuse of the President’s monument making power. In 2016, as we recognize 110 years of the Antiquities Act, the Legislative Branch needs to step in once again. Last month, in an effort to ensure that the President does not lock out thousands of fishermen in our area from portions of federal waters that contain essential fisheries, I offered an amendment to the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2017 (H.R. 5538), which passed the House, and would bar funding for the designation of any National Marine Monuments by the President in the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). The waters of the EEZ are the areas commercial fishermen on Long Island and nationwide work to feed their families and to keep the seafood economy moving. I believe in the proud conservation legacy of Teddy Roosevelt. In Congress, one of my top priorities is safeguarding our environment. Protecting our land and water is one of my highest priorities; however, we must ensure that any efforts to create a marine protected area are done through a transparent process laid out by the Magnusson-Stevens fishery conservation law, not through executive fiat that threatens to put thousands of hardworking men and women out of business. An effective way to conserve our ocean resources that allows for a thriving fishing economy has already been laid out through this landmark bipartisan law. Safeguarding the environment, while protecting the seafood economy, coastal communities, and the hardworking men and women of the seafood industry who provide for their families through fishing must be a priority for us all. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York.
08.19.2016	Riverhead, NY – On Wednesday, August 17, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was the featured guest speaker at the East End Executive Breakfast in Riverhead. The Congressman discussed his work in Congress to help grow our economy and create more good paying, private sector jobs, as well as his other work on several local issues facing the First Congressional District.
08.18.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released a statement today following the latest breaking news of Obama administration reversing its story and now confirming that the United States' $400 million cash payment to Iran was contingent on the release of four detained Americans: “Today, the Obama administration reversed its story in order to now admit and confirm the obvious: $400 million in airlifted cash delivered to the Iranians was connected to the simultaneous release at the same exact moment of four American hostages. This was no coincidence even though the Obama administration insisted there was no connection. Now matter how the administration wants to spin the truth, this was a planned event providing a cash ransom to the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism. As a result of this exchange, a very dangerous precedent with grave consequences has been set. Iran has already started unjustly imprisoning multiple Iranian-Americans again as well as foreigners from other nations, which are America's allies. The United States should have never agreed to this disastrous arrangement in the first place."
08.18.2016	Westhampton, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, was joined today by local elected officials and community leaders at Westhampton Beach Village Hall to discuss the next phase of the Fire Island to Montauk Point (FIMP) Project, which is now a $1.16 billion project that contains funding for essential dredging and shoreline projects across NY-1. Congressman Zeldin also announced the tentative dates and locations for the public hearings, and strongly encouraged residents to get engaged in the public comment period that is now open. During the press conference, Congressman Zeldin discussed many of the key components of the Draft General Reevaluation Report, or GRR, which was released in July of 2016, and specifies which projects will be included in the next phase of the Fire Island to Montauk Point (FIMP) Project. The highlights include: Beach and dune nourishment projects throughout the FIMP area at 2 year intervals for 30 years. Dredging to maintain Fire Island Inlet, Moriches Inlet, and Shinnecock Inlet. Groin and jetty modifications. The elevation of 4,400 homes and businesses. The plan also calls for assistance for another 1,250 homes – the assistance would be other than elevation, such as securing utilities. Road raising in Mastic Beach for 2 miles of road to protect 355 homes. An option for a betterment project for Dune Road. Support of the local management plan of Georgica Pond. Continued erosion protection through a sediment management plan along Potato Road and Downtown Montauk. Additionally, the Congressman announced that the plan includes a variety of coastal and wetland restoration projects that will use the natural environment to reduce flooding, erosion, and storm damage, while also preserving the natural environment and habitat for wildlife. The project also provides various coastal management initiatives for the bay side of the barrier beaches. Congressman Zeldin also encouraged South Shore residents to participate in the public comment period that is set to end on September 29, 2016 by attending public hearings and/or submitting public comments by mail or email. The Congressman announced four tentative proposed dates and locations: September 14, 2016 for the Babylon area, which will hosted at Town Hall; September 20, 2016 for the Brookhaven area, which will be hosted in Patchogue at the national park ferry service terminal; September 27, 2016 for the Southampton area, which will be hosted at the library or college; and September 28, 2016 for the East Hampton/Montauk area, which will be hosted at the Montauk Firehouse. Residents can also submit public comments by mail or email. The address is: The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, New York District, Planning Division-Environmental Branch (ATTN: Mr. Robert Smith) 26 Federal Plaza, New York, New York 10278-0090, or by email to: Project Biologist Robert.J.Smith@usace.army.mil and Project Manager Mark.f.Lulka@usace.army.mil. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “The FIMP project, which covers a distance of 83 miles, 80% of which is in the First Congressional District, will greatly improve our environment, economy and coastal way of life on Long Island’s South Shore. This project has been a long time coming with a history that spans generations. Superstorm Sandy devastated our coastal communities and businesses on Long Island, which is why it is important that we move forward with these projects to ensure that we as a community are best prepared for the future. After working closely with the Army Corps of Engineers, this is now a massive $1.16 billion 100% federally funded project that contains funding for essential dredging and shoreline projects for our area. Over the next few weeks, I very strongly encourage the public to participate in the public comment period. We have received requests for additional sand in some locations. Some communities are thrilled with certain proposals in this draft GRR as is. The Army Corps needs and wants to hear from the public. We all want to hear from the public. If the last proposed hearing does in fact get confirmed for just one day prior to the end of the public comment period, I am calling on the Army Corps to extend the public comment period for two weeks. South fork residents deserve and need more than 24-48 additional hours to comment after their public hearings. Once the public comment period closes, all of the public comments will be considered for incorporation in the final report. The final report and environmental impact study will be prepared in October and submitted to the Army Corps Chief for his approval at the end of December 2016. As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, in an effort to expedite this project and ensure its completion, it’s my priority to get a finalized GRR that includes all of the important projects for our district attached to the next Water Resources and Development Act that passes Congress. The approval process and execution of the project partner agreement with New York State will take place in 2017 and construction is scheduled to begin in 2018. The Water Resources and Development Act (otherwise known as WRDA) approves of Army Corps projects. By including our GRR in WRDA, the project will officially be signed off on by Congress. I would like to thank the Army Corps for their efforts and I strongly ask that they give the highest consideration to the priorities of the elected officials and residents on Long Island’s South Shore. I would also like to thank all of the elected officials who have worked closely with me on this issue. This moment has been a long time coming, going back generations. In the years ahead, we will witness a massive investment of our federal tax dollars being returned to our congressional district in a way never witnessed before. We are all very excited to be a part of it. It is so important that the public be heavily engaged in this process over this next month and a half.” Additional speakers at today’s press conference included: Westhampton Beach Mayor Maria Moore, New York State Senator Tom Croci, Southampton Superintendent of Highways Alex Gregor, Brookhaven Town Superintendent of Highways Daniel Losquadro, Brookhaven Town Councilman Dan Panico, Brookhaven Town Councilman Neil Foley, Quogue Mayor Peter Sartorius, Mastic Beach Village Mayor Maura Spery, Westhampton Beach Village Trustee Ralph Urban, Westhampton Beach Village Trustee Steve Franco, Alex Walter on behalf of East Hampton Town Supervisor Larry Cantwell, and local resident Robin Eshaghpour from East Quogue. New York State Senator Ken LaValle said, “Throughout my career, I have made it a priority to preserve and protect our fragile environment and shorelines. The FIMP project is an opportunity to address the harm to our coastline from decades of erosion and storm damage. As elected officials work together in a bipartisan way to impress upon the federal government methods to properly restore our coastlines, we need the public to speak out as well. It’s critically important that the community is actively involved in the public comment segment of FIMP. I urge everyone to add their voice to the efforts.” New York State Senator Tom Croci said, “This plan is vitally important for the sustainability of low lying areas in the 3rd Senate district such as Mastic, Bellport, Patchogue, Bayport, Bluepoint, Sayville and Oakdale. I urge all impacted parties to provide their input and comments so a workable plan can be adopted. Fire Island is a national treasure and our natural levy protecting our south shore, we must ensure its survival for future generations.” New York State Assemblyman Fred W. Thiele, Jr. said, “With the Fire Island to Montauk Point plan progressing, now is perhaps the most important stage of the project. It’s time for our local municipalities and residents to participate in the process by reviewing and providing comments and suggestions on the draft plan. It is our collective responsibility to ensure that the final outcome reflects what our local communities need. Specifically, we need a much greater focus on the dynamic Montauk coastline and implementing a larger scale soft, sand-only solution.” New York State Assemblyman Dean Murray said, “I would like to thank Congressman Zeldin for his tremendous efforts in fighting to secure the funding for this important project. The FIMPS project is vital in safeguarding our coastlines during times of natural disaster or crises. With over 85 miles of coastline on the South Shore, it is necessary to ensure the coastline is as stable as possible and able to withstand devastating weather conditions." “The Fire Island to Montauk Point Project is one of the most significant capital projects on Long island, affecting more than 4,000 homes on Fire Island and tens of thousands more along the South Shore. After the devastation this area saw in the wake of Superstorm Sandy, it is critical that the Army Corps hears the voices of these residents and the elected officials that represent them to ensure that their needs and concerns are addressed. I’m hopeful that one of these public hearings will be scheduled within the Town of Brookhaven,” said Brookhaven Supervisor Ed Romaine. “I want to thank Congressman Lee Zeldin for his leadership on this issue, and for fighting on behalf of our residents to make sure this plan is put in place to protect our South Shore.” "The amount of endangered and damaged infrastructure we have along the South Shore is truly staggering," said Brookhaven Town Superintendent of Highways Daniel Losquadro. "As a lifetime Long Islander, I am so grateful to see the federal government being proactive instead of reactive. As Superintendent of Highways, I know firsthand the importance of finally taking action after decades of only discussion." Brookhaven Town Councilman Dan Panico said, "Congressman Zeldin remains remarkably well versed on the issues that affect the residents of Brookhaven because he listens. I have always worked successfully with him regarding issues including those on our shorelines. His ability to marshal resources for our area come from his willingness to listen to his constituents and articulate our concerns to a variety of federal agencies as our Congressman. At a time when Washington is criticized for their top down approach, it is encouraging to have a homegrown Congressman who still believes in the bottom up approach. As a Town Councilman for some of the hardest hit south shore communities in Brookhaven, and Deputy Supervisor of the Town, I know that our residents welcome this opportunity and thank Congressman Zeldin for taking the time to publicize it." Paul Monte, President of the Montauk Chamber of Commerce, said, "The Montauk Chamber of Commerce and the entire Montauk Community view our beaches as our greatest natural resource. While the ACOE has taken interim steps to protect our downtown beach, they must include a much larger beach fill project in the FIMP plan to ensure the long term preservation and protection of our beach and our downtown. The small maintenance project proposed for Montauk in the current FIMP draft is a mere drop in the bucket and falls far short of what's needed to effectively rebuild our beach for the long term. "Robin Eshaghpour, East Quogue Property Owner, said, "I would like to thank the Army Corp of Engineers for taking a proactive approach in their plan to protect Long Island's shore line. I am pleased to see that the plan includes a potential “betterment project” which could and should be the raising of Dune Road. Congressman Lee Zeldin has been a great advocate and communicator for Long Island and his efforts towards the FIMP project should be applauded by all Long Islanders."
08.18.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released a statement today following the latest news regarding the Obama Administration releasing $400 million to Iran at the exact same moment as four detained Americans were released by Iran: “This was no coincidence. Far from it. $400 million in airlifted cash delivered to the Iranians at the same exact moment as four Americans were released by Iran. Despite the best efforts of Ben Rhodes, the White House's taxpayer funded fiction writer, much of the American public knows the script being pushed by the Obama administration is fiction and hardly based on a true story. No matter how ridiculously the administration wants to spin this, it was a cash ransom and a very dangerous precedent with grave consequences. Iran has already started unjustly imprisoning multiple Iranian-Americans again as well as foreigners from other nations, which are America's allies. The United States should have never agreed to this disastrous arrangement in the first place."
08.16.2016	Patchogue, NY – On Monday, August 15, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with Long Islander Victoria Bonavita, an animal-rights activist with a YouTube channel titled, "Victoria's Amazing Pets.” During the meeting, the Congressman presented Victoria with a Certificate of Congressional Recognition.
08.16.2016	With the recent outbreak of the mosquito borne Zika virus, which has spread at rapid rates across South America, Central America and the Caribbean, and has now entered the United States, there is an urgent need to provide the medical community with the proper funding to treat and prevent the spread of this virus. Unfortunately, many politicians are in a dizzying spin to politicize the Zika crisis for no purpose other than to score political points. Even more disappointing is that elected officials have confused the American public with misinformation – not because of any legitimate policy concerns, but to advance a political agenda. Zika is a major public health concern and combatting this virus is an issue that needs to transcend politics quickly in order to keep Americans safe. Myth: Currently, there is no funding to combat Zika. Fact: In April 2016, $589 million in unspent Ebola funding was transferred to combat Zika. Just recently, it was reported that only one-sixth of this available pot of money had been utilized. Myth: The House of Representatives hasn’t passed legislation to fund the effort to fight Zika. Fact: On June 23, 2016, the House passed $1.1 billion in funding to combat the Zika virus. So why hasn't that $1.1 billion been passed by the Senate yet and signed by the President? The answer unfortunately is politics. Instead of moving forward to pass this legislation, some prefer to politicize this issue to use as a campaign talking point to win elections this November. There are Senators filibustering this bill in their chamber, twice blocking this bill from being voted on, even though it's the exact amount they were advocating for and previously voted in favor of. These Senators have made various statements “explaining” why they are opposed to the legislation. They have claimed to be concerned with waiving a requirement to temporarily obtain EPA permits for the use of certain proven pesticides for mosquito eradication, but the language in the bill clearly states that all pesticides must already be approved and in compliance with federal regulations. Some say the legislation will cut funding to the Affordable Care Act; however, the funding in question is no longer being used. Others have charged that the bill hinders a woman’s ability to access contraceptives and care because it does not specifically name Planned Parenthood. The fact is that the bill would allocate $40 million for community health centers, $95 million to the Social Services Grant program, and an additional $6 million to the National Health Services Corp., which would offer a broad spectrum of care options, including contraceptive services. Zika represents an immediate threat to this nation which must be addressed. When the House first passed legislation with funding for Zika, 265 pregnant women had been diagnosed as having contracted the Zika virus. On July 28, 2016, when the CDC most recently published Zika infection figures, a mere 36 days later, that number rose to over 475 confirmed cases, nearly double the amount of diagnosed cases in barely a month’s time. Zika represents a clear and present threat to all American citizens; yet sadly, some members are only looking to use this debate to score political points. The longer the Senate refuses to act, the longer America suffers. Funding for Zika must come before politics and be granted immediately. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York.
08.15.2016	Patchogue, NY – On Monday, August 15, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with Philippine Consul General Mario L. De Leon, Jr. at his Long Island Office in Patchogue. During the meeting, the Congressman and Consul General discussed several international issues, as well as the need to continue to help cement the strong bond between the United States and the Philippines.
08.15.2016	East Moriches, NY — On Thursday, August 11, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) toured the Tate's Bake Shop facility in East Moriches. Pictured above, from left to right, are Maura Mottolese, CEO; Thomas Pawluk, CFO; Congressman Zeldin; and Ralph Palotta, Vice President of Operations.
08.15.2016	Moriches, NY – On Sunday, August 14, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with commercial and recreational boaters to discuss dredging and stabilization needs for the Moriches Inlet. The Congressman is pictured above addressing the crowd.
08.12.2016	Sagaponack, NY – On Wednesday, August 10, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke at a Young Farmers forum in Sagaponack. Congressman Zeldin, pictured above speaking, was joined by State Senator Kenneth LaValle and Assemblyman Fred Thiele, and discussed a variety of issues and challenges facing young people who are trying to break through into farming on the East End, including taxes, health care, marketplace competition, affordable housing, regulatory red tape, and infrastructure improvements.
08.10.2016	Smithtown, NY — On Wednesday, August 10, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited the North Shore Surgi-Center, an ambulatory surgery center, that provides patients with alternatives to hospitalization.
08.10.2016	Commack, NY — On Wednesday, August 10, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) toured the United Cerebral Palsy (UCP) Children’s Center, a school for students with developmental disabilities. Pictured above, from left to right, are Stephen Friedman, President and CEO of UCP, Lawrence Levy, UCP Board Member, Steve Louro, UCP Board Member, Sherri Glazer, Principal of UCP, and Congressman Zeldin.
08.09.2016	Miller Place, NY – On Tuesday, August 9, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, hosted a press conference at Sylvan Avenue Park in Miller Place, where he was joined by Suffolk County Legislator Sarah Anker, Brookhaven Town Supervisor Ed Romaine, Brookhaven Highway Superintendent Dan Losquadro, local civic, community and bicycle groups, and other members of the community. At the press conference, Congressman Zeldin announced that a large, $9.51 million Rails to Trail Project from Port Jefferson to Wading River that has long been stalled is now back on track and scheduled for completion. The Port Jefferson to Wading River Rails to Trail Project is 80% federally funded with a 20% local match from Suffolk County. This new 10 mile trail will include six hamlets of Brookhaven Town, including Port Jefferson Station, Mount Sinai, Miller Place, Sound Beach, Rocky Point, and Shoreham, and one hamlet in the Town of Riverhead, Wading River. This land, which was formally Long Island Railroad tracks, has been discussed as being converted to a trail since as early as 2001. Congressman Zeldin engaged officials from different levels of government to identify how to once again make this project a reality and get it completed. The Rails to Trails program is an important initiative that began in the 1980s to help protect and preserve our land, converting abandoned rail tracks to bike and hike trails, which in turn helps grow our economy and improve our quality of life and environment. In 1983, through the National Trails Systems Act, Congress authorized the preservation of decommissioned railroad tracks for the creation of recreational trails for bicycling and hiking, allowing railroads to donate or sell unprofitable rail lines for the purpose of preservation to local governments or nonprofits for the creation of a trail. This landmark law came in response to public concern over the large amount of abandoned railroad tracks being left behind by the struggling railroad industry following deregulation through the 1980 Staggers Rail Act and the subsequent discontinuation of unprofitable routes. In the early 1980s, between 4,000 to 8,000 miles of unprofitable rail lines were abandoned each year. The Rails to Trails program has made great progress in protecting and preserving our land. Back in 1986, after this law was enacted, there were only 250 miles of rail to trail conversions. Now, as a result of the National Trails Systems Act, there have been more than 21,000 miles of rail to trails conversions. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “Long Island’s trails are an important part of our local community and economy – connecting our residents and visitors to our beaches, parks, local farms, festivals, wineries, restaurants, and other destinations, while providing an option of healthy recreational activity and transportation as well. In addition to improving quality of life and livability, trails help protect our environment through conservation and by reducing traffic and pollution on our roads. In Congress, I have been working as part of a bipartisan coalition with various levels of government to protect our parks and expand our growing network of trails here on Long Island through the Rails to Trails program and other efforts. Working closely with my colleagues in government, we were able to get on track a federally funded Rails to Trails project right here in Brookhaven, including Wading River as well in the Town of Riverhead, which had once been stalled but is now scheduled for completion. The Rails to Trails program is an important initiative that helps protect and preserve our natural resources and aid our growing network of trails on Long Island, which I have been working to expand over the past 18 months. In December 2015, Congress passed the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act (H.R. 2029), which successfully saved the Land and Water Conservation Fund after the previous Congress had allowed this program to lapse. This important legislation protected critical funding that is used to preserve parks, beaches, trails, and other outdoor recreation sites through this Fund. Through grants targeted at the local level, this program has funded over 75 parks in Suffolk County alone. Additionally, within the 2015 Surface Transportation Bill, I acted on a bipartisan basis to help secure $835 million in annual funding, which will increase to $850 million by 2020, for the Transportation Alternatives Program (TAP), key funding to improve walkability and bicycle access on Long Island. In 2014 alone, the First Congressional District received $4.8 million in federal matching funds through this program, which is used to construct new recreational trails and bike lanes, and to maintain and improve the ones already on Long Island. This funding also supports the Safe Routes to School Program, which helps school districts repair cracked sidewalks, unsafe intersections, and bike lanes that local students rely upon. I will continue my efforts to ensure that the Port Jeff to Wading River trail is completed.” “Since being elected to the Suffolk County Legislature in 2011, I have made it one of my top priorities to advance the Rails to Trails project,” stated Suffolk County Legislator Sarah Anker. “Although we have had to overcome several major obstacles throughout the years, I am happy to see the project back on track and moving full-steam ahead. As we move into the design phase, I look forward to working closely with elected officials and the local community to design and provide a fun and safe recreational outlet for the residents of Suffolk County.” New York State Senator Ken LaValle said, “This Rail-to-Trail project has been a longstanding priority. At its inception, I was able to secure $2 million in state funding towards it’s development. Today, I congratulate all those involved in moving the project forward to fruition. When it’s completed, all of the communities from Port Jefferson to Wading River will enjoy the trail and make good use of it for years to come.” “Now, thanks to Congressman Lee Zeldin, this former railway will once again be an asset for our community, providing a scenic and safe place for our families to walk, run or ride their bicycles,” said Brookhaven Town Supervisor Ed Romaine. “The Port Jefferson-Setauket Greenway Trail has proven to be extremely popular since it was opened, and this new trail will be wonderful extension of this recreational facility for our residents.” Brookhaven Town Superintendent Daniel P. Losquadro stated, “As a Suffolk County Legislator, I worked to bring this project to fruition for seven years. During that time I addressed and solved a multitude of obstacles facing this project. It is extremely gratifying that those who have carried the torch forward will now make this project a reality. I especially need to thank Congressman Lee Zeldin, who has successfully fought for, and delivered, funding for projects ranging from storm water management to non-vehicular transportation opportunities such as this Rails to Trails program.” Marianne Wesley Fowler, Senior Strategist for Policy Advocacy at Rails-to-Trails Conservancy, said, “Some rail-trail projects are harder than others. This one has been a doozy. We might have lost the Wading River Trail if not for the determined support of Rep. Zeldin and Suffolk County officials. I was pleased to attend a meeting last April in Hauppauge at the Congressman's invitation in which we identified options to fund this trail. This rail-trail will improve the quality of life in Suffolk County. I eagerly await its ribbon cutting." "I applaud Congressman Zeldin on restoring funding for the Port Jefferson to Wading River Rails-to-Trails project," said Ashley Hunt-Martorano, Director of Marketing and Events from Citizens' Climate Lobby. "As a climate advocate, I understand the many health and environmental benefits for choosing alternative transportation like biking and walking. As an avid cyclist, I know firsthand the personal benefits of getting outdoors and being active. I am especially grateful that this long-delayed project is finally moving forward and I thank Congressman Zeldin for his investment in our district - one that will make our communities safer and healthier for all families."
08.09.2016	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY 1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, released the following statement today regarding outer beach access at Smith Point County Park that has been closed since June 3, 2016: “One of my best memories growing up in Shirley was accessing by vehicle the outer beach at Smith Point County Park with friends and family. Unfortunately, it has become an annual challenge where wildlife protected under federal law are shutting down access to one of Long Island's greatest treasures. Biologists state that there has been one piping plover and a tiny colony of tern chicks on the beach, preventing a reopening. This beach needs to reopen ASAP. Current capacity at the beach would be 100 cars. Without this single piping plover and one colony of tern chicks, capacity at the beach would be 450 cars and the beach would be opened again. Protecting wildlife is important but it must be done in a flexible and reasonable way. There is a long term solution available to ensure this never happens again in the future. The Endangered Species Act and Migratory Bird Treaty Act, the two laws that govern the protection of these birds, allow for flexibility in the management of habitats. The same flexibility afforded to beach goers in Cape Cod or North Carolina must also be available to the people of Long Island. That is why I am working directly with the federal Fish and Wildlife Service and Suffolk County to formulate a new conservation plan for these birds that is both flexible and sensible. The long term solution is for the county to request federal permits necessary to move the birds away from the current choke point at the Pattersquash Overwash to points further down the beach near the eastern tip that have been specially created for bird habitat. This request must be initiated as soon as possible so that the permits are received in time for the next summer season. The specially created habitat, constructed at taxpayer expense, should be put to use to transfer these birds away from the area that has necessitated the closure of this beach. There is absolutely no reason for this situation, which has been an annual challenge for beach goers, to ever happen again."
08.08.2016	On the East End of Long Island, we are blessed with so many natural treasures, including our world-renowned parks and beaches, many of which are connected through our scenic biking and hiking trails. Long Island’s trails are an important part of our local community and economy. Trails connect our community and visitors to our beaches, parks, local farms, festivals, wineries, restaurants, and other destinations, and provide an option of healthy recreational activity for residents. In addition to improving quality of life and livability, trails help protect our environment through conservation and by reducing traffic and pollution. In Congress, I have been working to help grow our increasing network of trails here on Long Island through the Rails to Trails Conservancy, an effort that began well over 30 years ago. In 1983, Congress acted through the National Trails Systems Act to authorize the preservation of decommissioned railroad tracks for the creation of recreational trails for bicycling and hiking. The law allows railroads to donate or sell unprofitable rail lines for the purpose of preservation to local governments or nonprofits for the creation of a trail. This landmark law came in response to public concern over the large amount of abandoned railroad tracks being left behind by the struggling railroad industry following deregulation through the 1980 Staggers Rail Act and the subsequent discontinuation of unprofitable routes. In the early 1980s, between 4,000 to 8,000 miles of unprofitable rail lines were abandoned each year. The Rails to Trails Conservancy has made great progress in protecting and preserving our land for recreation and transportation purposes, which in turn helps grow our economy and improve our quality of life and environment. Back in 1986, after this law was enacted, there were only 250 miles of rail to trail conversions. Now, as a result of the National Trails Systems Act, there have been more than 21,000 miles of rail to trails conversions. We must continue this progress. Over the past 18 months, I have been working as part of a bipartisan coalition in Congress to protect our parks and expand our growing network of trails. Beginning last year, and on a bipartisan basis, I have been working to secure funding for Rails to Trails projects to continue the preservation of discontinued LIRR tracks for the use of bicycle and hiking trails. Also, in December of 2015, Congress passed the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act (H.R. 2029), which successfully saved the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) after the previous Congress had allowed this program to lapse. This important legislation protected critical funding that is used to preserve parks, beaches, trails, and other outdoor recreation sites through the LWCF. Through grants targeted at the local level, the LWCF has funded over 75 parks in Suffolk County alone. Additionally, within the 2015 Surface Transportation Bill, I acted on a bipartisan basis to help secure $835 million in annual funding, which will increase to $850 million by 2020, for the Transportation Alternatives Program (TAP), key funding to improve walkability and bicycle access on Long Island. In 2014 alone, the First Congressional District received $4.8 million in federal matching funds through this program, which is used to construct new recreational trails and bike lanes, and to maintain and improve the ones already on Long Island. This funding also supports the Safe Routes to School Program, which helps school districts repair cracked sidewalks, unsafe intersections, and bike lanes that local students rely upon. It is important to protect and preserve our natural resources and aid our growing network of trails on Long Island. There is much more work still ahead and I will continue my work in Washington, DC to lead the effort. Congressman Lee Zeldin, member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, represents the First Congressional District of New York.
08.08.2016	On Saturday, August 6, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Wounded Warriors Amputee team’s softball game against the Suffolk Lawmen at the Moriches Athletic Complex in Center Moriches. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with Dennis Wince, Executive Director of the Wounded Warrior Amputee Softball Team, while the Congressman was greeting the Wounded Warriors in their dugout just before the start of the game.
08.08.2016	Manorville, NY — On Thursday, August 4, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was the featured guest speaker at a Rotary Club of Seatuck Cove meeting, where he discussed his work in Congress for veterans. The Congressman was also inducted as an Honorary Rotarian. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, center, with Seatuck Rotary Club members, Pastor Martin Hawley, Club President, left, and MJ Fitzgerald, District Governor, right.
08.05.2016	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY 1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, was joined today at the North Patchogue Fire Department by New York State Senator Tom Croci, New York State Assemblyman Dean Murray, local elected officials, firefighters, police and first responders, local organizations, members of the Brookhaven Highway Department and concerned members of the community, to announce the first infusion of federal dollars to the First Congressional District of New York from a new federal pot of money that was created as a result of his Safe Bridges Act being passed and signed into law this past December as part of a new five year, fully funded surface transportation bill (H.R. 22). This massive new investment of federal funds into the NY-1 infrastructure will include major repairs and widening to the Hospital Road Bridge, as well as other critical projects across the district. Last year, the New York State Department of Transportation graded Hospital Road Bridge as “functionally obsolete,” meaning that it cannot handle the current traffic demand. This bridge is a key form of transportation for local residents, as well as for police and first responders who are traveling to Brookhaven Memorial Hospital and the North Patchogue Fire Department. Repairing and widening Hospital Road Bridge, through a $26 million dollar project that is 80% federally funded, will help strengthen this form of transportation, alleviate traffic problems and ensure public safety. The Congressman also announced that through the 2015 surface transportation bill, which includes the Safe Bridges Act, Congress enacted a fully funded, five year highway bill, which means that critical highway funding is being directed back into state and local governments. In addition to $26 million for Hospital Road, the Safe Bridges Act and 2015 surface transportation bill has helped secure $8.16 million for preventative maintenance for Suffolk County bridges, $7.48 million for repairs of Suffolk County bridges, $3.63 million in preventative maintenance and repairs for bridges over Sunrise Highway in Suffolk County, and $18.42 million for bridge rehab on the LIE in Suffolk County. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “Since taking office 18 months ago, I have been working on a bipartisan basis to ensure that states and local governments have the flexibility and resources necessary to strengthen our infrastructure and improve transportation safety, job creation, and our overall economy and quality of life. As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I introduced the bipartisan Safe Bridges Act, with Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney, which this past December was passed and signed into law as part of a new five year, fully funded surface transportation bill (H.R. 22). In 2012, changes were made to federal law under MAP-21 that cut funding for bridges and overpasses owned by the state or local government. According to the New York State Department of Transportation, New York received $271 million in federal funding for the Highway Bridge program in 2011. Due to the changes under MAP-21, New York State received $0 in Highway Bridge program funding in 2014. The Safe Bridges Act, now law, reforms federal highway law to make our critical overpasses and bridges, such as Hospital Road Bridge, once again eligible for the federal funding needed to strengthen our infrastructure through the National Highway Performance Program (NHPP), which the 2015 federal highway bill funds at $22.3 billion in 2016, increasing that funding to $24.2 billion over the life of the bill. As a result of this new federal stream of money created by the Safe Bridges Act, one of the first infusions of federal dollars to the First Congressional District of New York, will include major repairs and widening of Hospital Road Bridge; a key transportation asset for local residents, as well for police and first responders who are traveling to Brookhaven Memorial Hospital and the North Patchogue Fire Department. The state of this bridge, specifically the inadequate width of the bridge, which is a serious problem when the bridge fills with traffic, has long posed a threat to the residents who travel it and especially the police and first responders travelling over this bridge. This project, which is scheduled to begin as early as next year, was included in the New York State capital budget as a result of advocacy from New York State Senator Tom Croci and New York State Assemblyman Dean Murray. I would also like to thank the Governor and the NYS Department of Transportation for their efforts with this very important project, which will enter the design stage as soon as this fall. It is also worth noting that this $26 million project will be bringing good paying construction jobs to our community. I will continue working with the local community, Brookhaven Hospital, police and first responders, to ensure that the design of the Hospital Road Bridge revitalization fits all needs and the project stays on track to be completed by fiscal year 2017-2018. I will also continue working to ensure that Long Island receives its fair share of funding to improve our roads, bridges and overpasses.” “The Hospital Road Bridge has long been a problem for residents and emergency response personnel to navigate, especially while trying to access Brookhaven Memorial Hospital. The quality and safety of our bridge infrastructure has been a major priority for me and our other local elected officials. At the state level, I supported this year’s capital budget, which added this project to the plan and will allow the Department of Transportation to move this project forward to the benefit of our community. I applaud Congressman Zeldin for leading this effort and for making Long Island’s infrastructure a main concern at the federal level,” stated New York State Senator Tom Croci. “An important arterial roadway in Brookhaven Town serving Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Medical Center as well as the surrounding East Patchogue and Bellport communities, the Hospital Road Bridge has been in severe need of both repair and widening to accommodate the increased traffic flow,” said Brookhaven Town Superintendent of Highways Daniel P. Losquadro. “I would like to thank Congressman Zeldin for sponsoring the Safe Bridges Act and allocating this important funding so we can move this project forward." Brookhaven Town Supervisor Ed Romaine said, "The Hospital Road Bridge is an extremely high traffic route which deems the existing design as obsolete,in need of repair and widening for many years. I thank Congressman Zeldin for his efforts to make the road safer. He said that he would secure funding for the project and he came through with the money to do it. I stand ready to work with other local levels of government in a collaborative effort to see this project to it's completion" Brookhaven Town Councilman Neil Foley said, "Congressman Zeldin has always fought hard on behalf of Brookhaven Town residents and this is another example of his strong commitment to improve our quality of life. The repairs to the Hospital Road Bridge will ease the congestion and make it safer for all to drive, especially police and emergency services vehicles." Brookhaven Town Councilman Dan Panico said, "Congressman Zeldin delivers real results for all residents of Brookhaven. This funding is yet another example of Lee getting it done.” Brookhaven Town Councilman Mike Loguercio said, “"As a first responder myself and someone who drives an ambulance over that bridge often, this is a very important project that will help to expedite trips to Brookhaven Memorial Hospital. I thank Congressman Zeldin for his efforts and I applaud him for making this happen for the community.” Greg Miglino, Chief of the South Country Ambulance Company, said, “Hospital Road Bridge is a critical form of transportation for police and first responders. Strengthening and widening the bridge will help us navigate the bridge more quickly and efficiently. The improvements coming to the bridge as a direct result of Congressman Zeldin’s Safe Bridges Act, and State Senator Croci and Assemblyman Murray’s advocacy, will keep our police, first responders and community safe.” "The Hospital Road Bridge improvement has been a priority interest to the hospital for over twenty years. We see this as a need and benefit to our dedicated EMS workers, fire and police who travel the bridge in emergency situations on a regular basis. This is a crucial step forward in securing improved safety for those traveling to the hospital in need of emergency care. As a Level II Trauma Center, Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Medical Center needs every critical minute possible to help save lives. We are grateful to see this advance and eagerly anticipate the first shovel in the ground," stated Richard T Margulis, CEO & President of Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Medical Center. Billy Duffy, President of IUOE Local 138, said, “Roads and bridges represent some of the most important infrastructure in the nation. They get us to work, bring food to our table and allow us to go home at night. And yet the advocates for these critical paths are few and far between. Those who do fight for funding get no credit- much less our thanks. Today I am here on behalf of Local 138 of the International Union of Operating Engineers in order to say “thank you” to the Congressman, State Senator Croci and Assemblyman Murray. Thank you for fighting on behalf of every one of us who depend on our roads and bridges to get from here from there and who depend on these highways for commerce and commuting. Local 138 knows what it takes to be an effective legislator and today’s effort reflects the work of these lawmakers who are protecting our future.” Marc Herbst, Executive Director of Long Island Contractors’ Association, Inc. (LICA), said, “The Long Island Contractors’ Association applauds Congressman Zeldin’s efforts in having the Safe Bridge Act signed into law. His legislative success translates into actual safety improvements and jobs for our region. Thanks to Congressman Zeldin, federal dollars can now be used to fix structurally deficient bridges and functionally obsolete bridges which are owned by local governments, such as the Hospital Road Bridge.”
08.04.2016	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY 1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, announced today that the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) revised its management plan amendments that would have shut down the commercial bluefish fishery mid-season in New York. The new rule issue by NOAA yesterday will allow for this important fishery to remain open. Congressman Zeldin said, “Since NOAA first released their plan, I have been working closely with NOAA and NYDEC directly to reverse the misguided ruling and prevent the closure of the commercial bluefish fishery, even keeping in direct personal contact with DEC Commissioner Seggos along the way who did a phenomenal job with this effort. It was unacceptable that several months into the 2016 fishing season, federal officials abruptly announced that New York went over its quota for 2015, a decision based off of old data and poor science. As a direct result of our advocacy, NOAA took a second look at the data that was outdated and wrong, and revised their plan allowing commercial blue fishing to continue. The fight to make sure all of these decisions are based on up to date data and sound science will continue but this is a solid win.” On July 15, 2016, Congressman Zeldin sent a letter to NOAA, which you can view here: Zeldin letter to NOAA on bluefish closure.pdf Congressman Zeldin has also been a vocal advocate for NOAA to give states more ability to manage fisheries in a flexible, locally focused way. These reforms were included in H.R. 1335, the Strengthening Fishing Communities and Increasing Flexibility in Fisheries Management Act, which the Congressman voted for when it passed the House in a bipartisan vote in June of last year.
08.03.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released a statement today following breaking news that the Obama Administration airlifted $400 million to Iran on the day of a negotiated release of four detained Americans: “Paying a $400 million cash ransom to the world’s largest state sponsor of terror, shows that yet again the Obama administration will go to great lengths, at any and all costs, to appease Iran and show weakness to our enemies. This ransom has already proven to result in the consequences of why America shouldn't have agreed to this payment in the first place. Iran has started imprisoning multiple Iranian-Americans again as well as foreigners from other nations, which are America's allies. When deals like this are cut, one has to truly wonder whether the President has no idea what he is doing, or if he knows exactly what he is doing and is playing for some other team. Unfortunately, paying a $400 million ransom is no game and the consequences are grave."
08.01.2016	Nesconset, NY — On Tuesday, July 26, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke at the 9th Annual Nesconset Summer Concert Series, a free outdoor concert that was hosted jointly by The Nesconset Chamber of Commerce and Suffolk County Legislator Leslie Kennedy. At the event, Congressman Zeldin presented a POW flag for the flagpole there that he had flown over the U.S. Navy Memorial in Washington, DC. Also attending the concert was Maria Michta, a U.S. Olympian and Farmingville resident headed to Rio this week. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, center, with Maria Michta to his right, and U.S. service members.
08.01.2016	Riverhead, NY — On Sunday, July 31, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended an event at Riverhead Raceway, which was hosted in support of bringing a drag strip back to Long Island. Congressman Zeldin addressed the crowd of several hundred supporters of the cause. In the 1960s, Long Island had 3 drag strips and the last one closed down in 2004.
08.01.2016	East Quogue, NY — On Saturday, July 30, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke at an Erosion Control District meeting, where he discussed updates on the Fire Island to Montauk Point (FIMP) project.
08.01.2016	Riverhead, NY — On Saturday, July 30, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Paddle Battle Long Island fundraiser, a paddleboard race in support of veterans and marine research.
08.01.2016	Bellport, NY — On Saturday, July 30, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Bellport Day festival. The Congressman and his staff were set up at the event to meet with local residents and help with any federal issues.
08.01.2016	Mastic Beach, NY — On Friday, July 29, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) participated in Brookhaven Town Councilman Dan Panico’s annual 3-on-3 youth basketball tournament. Also participating in this Shirley-Mastic-Mastic Beach community event were Sue Wicks, a former professional basketball player in the Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA) and NY-1 resident, and Mastic Beach Village Mayor Maura Spery.
08.01.2016	In Congress, one of my top priorities has been to repair our infrastructure. Unfortunately, in our community, state and nation, much of our infrastructure is in need of additional support. Our roads, overpasses, and bridges are essential to the Long Island economy, way of life and safety, and as a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I have been working on a bipartisan basis to ensure that states and local governments have the flexibility and resources necessary to strengthen our infrastructure and improve transportation safety, job creation, and our overall economy and quality of life. Congress acted at the end of last year, after ten years of short term extensions, and passed a fully funded, five-year highway bill to provide critical long-term funding and certainty that allows for the planning of projects months and years into the future, as well as creating jobs for our transit workers, construction trades, and contractors. Included in the highway bill that passed the House and was signed into law was my bipartisan proposal, the Safe Bridges Act (H.R. 3168), that provides counties and municipalities with the funds needed to fix our region’s bridges and infrastructure by reforming federal highway law to make Long Island overpasses and bridges once again eligible for funding. The Safe Bridges Act restores eligibility for critical federal funding for over 80 bridges and overpasses across the First Congressional District, and one of my top priorities this year has been to secure funding improvements for Long Island overpasses and bridges that were made eligible as a result of the Safe Bridges Act. Within the highway bill, I also fought to protect the Transportation Alternatives/Safe Routes to School program, which provides $835 million in funding to fix dangerous cracks in sidewalks, inadequate lighting, unsafe intersections, and to improve LIRR stations and walk-ability in Long Island’s downtowns, which is key to revitalizing the Long Island and tri-state area economy. Overall, the highway and transit bill was one of the most significant bipartisan victories of the 114th Congress, strongly increasing flexibility for states and increasing transportation funding to local governments to restore our infrastructure from the bottom up. Since my first day in Congress 18 months ago, I’ve also been focused on breaking ground on new infrastructure improvement projects to strengthen our barrier beaches and waterways working with the Army Corps of Engineers. The Corps just released their Draft General Reevaluation Report (GRR), which determines what projects will be included in the next phase of the Fire Island to Montauk Point (FIMP) Project, and contains $1.16 billion in funding for essential dredging and shoreline projects. When I came into office, this project was just over half as large as it is now. The plan also includes a variety of coastal and wetland restoration projects that will use the natural environment to reduce flooding, erosion, and storm damage, while also preserving the natural environment and habitat for wildlife. I have been fighting hard to secure the many victories coming to our area as a result of the draft GRR and will continue working to ensure that we witness a massive investment of our federal tax dollars being returned to our congressional district in a way never witnessed before. To protect our infrastructure and the safety of our roads, we must have sensible policies. Local control is key and a one-size fits all approach doesn’t work for every American community—that is why I fought against a controversial proposal that would have rerouted thousands of trucks from I-95 in Connecticut to our rural North Fork roads through the Cross Sound Ferry. Working directly with the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and U.S. Maritime Administration (MARAD), as well as our local community, this misguided trucking proposal was permanently removed from both the regional and federal transportation plans. While passenger ferries are an important part of the Long Island transportation and tourism economy, this particular plan was ill advised, as it obviously failed to properly assess the North Fork's road system, which is not equipped for the additional truck traffic, and was contrary to the goals of America’s Marine Highways. I also helped lead the effort in the House with a bipartisan coalition to defeat a proposal allowing longer and heavier trucks on our local roads, protecting our infrastructure and strengthening public safety. Ensuring New York’s transportation and infrastructure systems are strong for the millions who depend on it is a top priority and I will continue to lead the effort in the House to address our local transportation and infrastructure needs. Congressman Lee Zeldin, member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, represents the First Congressional District of New York.
07.29.2016	Riverhead, NY — On Thursday, July 29, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Alive on 25 street festival in Riverhead to meet with local residents and help with any federal issues.
07.29.2016	Mount Sinai, NY – On Friday, July 29, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and Long Island Sound Caucus, hosted a press conference overlooking the Long Island Sound at Cedar Beach in Mount Sinai. At the press conference, Congressman Zeldin called on the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to keep their commitment to permanently close the Eastern Long Island Sound disposal sites. The Congressman also called on the EPA to expedite the process to phase out the Western and Central Long Island Sound disposal sites. Congressman Zeldin was joined by local elected officials and environmental groups. On April 27, 2016, the EPA issued a proposed rule, the “Ocean Disposal; Designation of a Dredged Material Disposal Site in Eastern Region of Long Island Sound; Connecticut (81 FR 24748),” which would continue open water dumping of dredge waste in the Eastern Long Island Sound for up to 30 years, despite the agency previously committing to close both of the Eastern Long Sound disposal sites (ELDS), Cornfield Shoals and New London, by December 23, 2016. Last month, on June 30, 2016, Congressman Zeldin sent a letter to the Administrator of the EPA opposing this proposed rule. Additionally, on July 7, 2016, the EPA announced a final rule that continues open water dumpling at the Central and Western Long Island Sound dump sites, while phasing these sites out over the next 30 years. Today, Congressman Zeldin reinforced that it is imperative for the EPA keep its previous commitment to the people of the East End and close these sites. When the Eastern Long Island Sound disposal sites were created by the EPA in 2012, it was explicitly for "short term, limited use", but now the agency is moving to keep one or more of these sites open for up to 30 years. Congressman Zeldin also expressed his support for a much more aggressive path to phasing out open water dumping at these sites in the Long Island Sound over a period of 5-10 years, instead of 30 years, and expressed major concerns with ecological impacts on the Long Island Sound. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “The EPA recently issued a proposal to extend and expand the open water dumping of dredge waste in the Eastern Long Island Sound for up to 30 years, despite nearly a year of outcry from Long Islanders opposing the revised Dredged Materials Management Plan (DMMP). This proposal is unacceptable. The EPA should immediately reverse this proposal and honor their previous commitment to permanently close the Eastern Long Island Sound disposal sites by the end of this year. Furthermore, the EPA should expedite the process to phase out the Western and Central Long Island Sound disposal sites. We need a much more aggressive path to phasing out open water dumping at these sites in the Long Island Sound. Instead of a 30 year phase out period, the Central and Western Long Island Sound dumping sites should be phased out over a 5-10 year period. The Long Island Sound, an EPA designated Estuary of National Significance and one of the nation’s most populated watersheds, is a cultural and natural treasure that provides a diverse ecosystem with more than 170 species of fish, over 1,200 invertebrates and many different species of migratory birds. The Sound is also essential to the everyday economy and livelihood of millions of Long Islanders. Over the years, water quality on Long Island has suffered severely from issues such as pollution and overdevelopment, but through work between the EPA, state and local governments, and dedicated Long Islanders, progress has been made to improve water quality and ecosystem health in the Sound. All of this we owe to the improvement of this critical ecosystem so it is critical that the EPA and Army Corps do not impede this progress through this misguided proposal. The Long Island Sound shouldn't be a dumping ground, especially when there are many viable alternatives to open water dumping, including recycling and safe disposal on land. The public comment period regarding the Eastern Long Island Sound sites is now closed, but we reaffirm our opposition to the misguided plan to dump Connecticut’s questionable dredge waste into our critical waterway. Time and again, the people of Long Island and their elected representatives have made it clear to the EPA and to the Army Corps of Engineers that open water dumping in the Long Island Sound must be phased out. I will continue to hold the EPA and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers accountable to their previous commitment to close the eastern sites by the end of this year. On the East End of Long Island, we have been blessed with an abundance of natural resources that are important to our life and culture, and we must protect and preserve them. I will continue working as your Congressman to safeguard our environment and improve our water quality.” New York State Senator Ken LaValle said, “It is inconceivable that while the federal, state and local governments are spending nearly a billion dollars to keep our waters clean, the EPA and Army Corps attempt to push through a plan to dump dredge spoils in the Long Island Sound. The materials are from potentially contaminated sites and could do irreparable harm to the Sound. The Environmental Protection Agency certainly is not living up to its name by working to undo our efforts to maintain the health of this vital resource. I demand the EPA and Army Corps to withdraw the dumping proposal immediately.” Brookhaven Town Supervisor Ed Romaine said, “The Town of Brookhaven is extremely concerned about the impacts to the Long Island Sound from the Army Corp's proposed Long Island Sound Dredge Material Management Plan (LIS DMMP). I stand with New York's state and federal elected officials and administrators in condemning this poor excuse of a document in the strongest terms. Just in the last few years we have started to enjoy the benefits of a cleaner Long Island Sound. I cannot understand why the USEPA would or should allow this plan to undo the hard and expensive work that has been done over the last two decades to restore the Long Island Sound. We simply must do better.” “The Dredged Material Management Plan accepted by the EPA is a weak excuse to avoid seriously addressing water contamination,” stated Suffolk County Legislator Sarah Anker. “Hundreds of millions of dollars have been dedicated to protecting Long Island Sound. It is absolutely unacceptable to continue to dump potentially toxic dredge spoils into a body of water that generates up to $36 billion in economic value for Long Island every year. Working to identify beneficial reuses for the dredge material is imperative in order to prevent irreparable harm to Long Island’s environment, health, and economy.” Brookhaven Town Councilwoman Jane Bonner said, “The Town of Brookhaven is doing so much to keep the Long Island Sound and our other waterways clean, and this disposal site expansion plan is a real threat to our progress. I support Congressman Zeldin's call to the EPA to reverse their plans before any harm is done and I urge all elected officials and environmental groups to join in our opposition to their proposal." “Eastern Long Island Sound is the most biologically diverse portion of this nationally important estuary. The EPA has undervalued these waters and ignores the economic harm and recreational value of the 15 fish species that use this section of the Sound for spawning, breeding and feeding grounds including winter flounder, Spanish mackerel, bluefish and Atlantic sea herring. Cornfield Shoals and the New London sites should be closed and capped, rather than allowed an additional 22.6 million cubic yards of dumping dredged materials over the next 30 years. Continuing the use of our Sound as a dump site stymies restoration efforts and prevents the advancement of a long term program for beneficial reuse of dredged materials,” said Adrienne Esposito, Executive Director of Citizens Campaign for the Environment. "Like Congressman Zeldin, I am frustrated that the EPA has changed their position on dredging materials," said Ashley Hunt-Martorano, Director of Marketing and Events for Citizens' Climate Lobby. "We often hear the mantra, "reduce, reuse, recycle," but by depositing dredged materials from Connecticut off our shores, we miss the opportunity to reuse and recycle those materials to help adapt to the threat of climate change. Instead of treating these materials like a waste product, we can use it to create barriers against bigger storm surges and sea level rise. I commend the Congressman and stand with him in asking the EPA to reconsider this ill-advised plan." Jeremy Samuelson, President of Concerned Citizens of Montauk, said, “With this proposal EPA is failing the millions of Americans who live and work around Long Island Sound and the Peconic Estuary. Rejecting this proposal was the right thing to do 10 years ago and it remains the right thing to do today. We can no longer act as if ocean dumping is the solution for dredge spoil disposal. Spending millions of dollars doing the wrong thing is a waste of tax payer money and fails in our collective responsibility to protect our natural resources. CCOM is calling upon the EPA to produce a management plan that lives up to their mandate of environmental protection.” Robert S. DeLuca, President of Group for the East End, said, “EPA’s decision to expand the use of eastern Long Island’s disposal sites for open water dumping is precisely why people are so fed up with government. After spending decades of time and billions of public dollars to clean up the Sound, and finally seeing some positive results, the EPA now sees fit to turn around and transform some our healthiest Long Island Sound waters into a waste dump for decades to come. This decision fails to address the real need for alternatives to ocean dumping, and simply kicks the can down the road for another 30 years. It’s time we learn from our past mistakes and acknowledge that short term fixes like this one only serve to increase the true costs on our coastal economy and marine resources long into the future.”
07.27.2016	Holbrook, NY — On Monday, July 26, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) participated in a roundtable discussion with local restaurant owners at Outback Steakhouse in Holbrook to discuss issues facing the restaurant industry and how Congress can help.
07.26.2016	Patchogue, NY — Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, met with Matthew Redlein, a seventh grade student at Nissequogue Middle School, who has raised $30,000 for America's VetDogs. The Congressman met with Matthew and his mom, Theresa, at his Patchogue Office, where he presented Matthew with a Certificate of Congressional Recognition for his work on behalf of our veterans.
07.26.2016	Mastic, NY — Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted a meeting at the Mastic Fire House in the Tri-Hamlet to discuss several initiatives to improve the Shirley-Mastic-Mastic Beach community.
07.25.2016	I learned as a freshman in the New York State Senate that there is a way to leverage being a freshman in the majority to get a lot accomplished for one’s legislative district. Once learning how and which legislative leaders want me to stay in my position for another term, I work with them as closely as possible articulating which priorities are my top priorities for the legislative session. They want to help and communication is critical. Working with my colleagues in the House, including chairmen of various committees, I work hard to earn their support of my proposals, as well as members of the local community, building coalitions with third party groups and leaders who are invested in a specific agenda, to help advance key legislative priorities. In Congress, I have been focused on pursuing my New Era of American Strength agenda to protect America’s security at home and abroad, help grow our economy, support our veterans and first responders, improve healthcare and the quality of education, repair our nation’s infrastructure and safeguard our environment. By working closely with other members of the House, I’ve been able to get several of my proposals passed, including three bills to help veterans, two proposals to save Plum Island, my counterterrorism legislation, a bill to allow striped bass fishing off the coast of Montauk, and a proposal to keep the FAA from taking negative action against East Hampton for the enactment of aircraft noise restrictions. My proposal to allow states to opt out of Common Core without penalty from the federal government was passed and signed into law, as well as my Safe Bridges Act to direct federal funding to repair our state and local bridges. Regardless of whether a freshman elected official is in the majority in Congress, a state legislature or more locally, I would encourage all to identify priorities immediately upon taking office and communicate these priorities clearly with top leadership. As the agenda is set for which bills will be considered in committee or on the floor, effectively lobby to have your proposals included. Try to gather as many cosponsors, third party support, and earned media as possible so that there is a maximum amount of awareness and momentum for your legislation. These tactics can be pursued as well if a freshman finds himself or herself in the minority party, although this is much more of an uphill battle to get across the finish line and often unsuccessful despite one’s best efforts. As someone who is supportive of term limits, I believe it is important to waste zero time getting goals across the finish line once elected to office. The key is to identify solutions quickly, build relationships, make bold asks, and go all in when necessary to turn an idea into a win. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York. He is a member of the House Foreign Affairs, Veterans Affairs and Transportation and Infrastructure Committees.
07.25.2016	Patchogue, NY — Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, announced today that the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (S. 524), otherwise known as CARA, that passed both the House and Senate with overwhelming bipartisan support, was signed into law by the President on Friday, July 22, 2016. Congressman Zeldin is a cosponsor of CARA and has been a vocal supporter of the bill since it was first introduced in the House. CARA provides a total of $8.3 billion in funding to help combat the heroin and opioid epidemic. Some provisions of the bill include: $80 million in funding to help prevent and treat addiction on a local level through community-based education, prevention, treatment and recovery programs; $160 million for the expansion of medication-assisted treatment options; and $103 million to establish a community-based competitive grant program to address and treat the problems of heroin and opioid addiction and abuse. The bill will also provide funding necessary to expand prescription drug monitoring across the country, and provide funding to supply our police force and emergency medical responders with higher quantities of Naloxone, a medication that is proven to reverse an opioid overdose. Congressman Zeldin said, “I am proud to announce that the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, which will provide $8.3 billion in funding to help combat the growing heroin and opioid epidemic on Long Island and nationwide, has been signed into law. Since the introduction of CARA, as a member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, I worked closely with my colleagues in the House, and members of our local community, to ensure that this bill to increase treatment and recovery services for those suffering, and provide the proper education and resources at a local level, was passed and signed into law. Every day, 78 people lose their life as a result of an opioid or heroin overdose. Last year, on Long Island alone, 442 people died of a heroin or opiate overdose, which is up from 403 overdose deaths the year before. This new law is an important step in the fight to combat this growing epidemic. Our communities and families on Long Island have been severely impacted by the rise of prescription drug abuse and the growing epidemic of heroin, and I will continue working with local elected officials, law enforcement, health professionals, community groups, parents, concerned residents and those in recovery, to discuss and develop a more localized solution to address this crisis by increasing treatment and recovery services, education, and stopping the influx of illegal substances.” In July of 2015, and May of 2016, Congressman Zeldin hosted two press conferences where he joined with local elected officials, community groups and concerned residents to urge support for CARA and other legislation that he has been advocating for to help fight against the growing drug epidemic. The Congressman also hosted a free public community summit in November of 2015 to discuss the rise of drug abuse on Long Island, as well as treatment and prevention efforts, with a panel of parents, educators, healthcare professionals, law enforcement officials, local elected officials and recovering substance abusers.
07.25.2016	Centereach, NY — On Sunday, July 24, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the 4th Annual “Kick Stand Up” Motorcycle Poker Run and Car Show event, which is run by the Suffolk County United Veterans (SCUV), in support of homeless veterans, at VFW Post 4927 in Centereach.
07.25.2016	Southold, NY — On Saturday, July 23, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended SoutholdVOICE’s annual general meeting to discuss issues on the East End of Long Island, including his work to address aircraft noise on the North Fork and his efforts to preserve Plum Island.
07.23.2016	Washington, DC — Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and Vice Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Aviation, released the following statement in response to the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) decision to extend the North Shore Route for four years: “The FAA's announcement that they will be extending the North Shore route for four years is an unacceptable example of incompetence and arrogance on the part of faceless, unelected and unaccountable federal bureaucrats. This decision violates the Administrative Procedures Act, a federal law that requires transparency and a public comment period on any major regulatory decisions. The agency's written explanation for this extension, including the justification for its lack of public comment or notice, reaches a new level of tone-deafness, when citing ‘good cause for immediate adoption without prior notice’. This is the unresponsive bureaucracy at it's worst. After repeated follow up from myself, my office, the House Subcommittee on Aviation, other elected officials, and countless concerned citizens on the East End, the FAA has chosen to go radio silent and release this directive in secret as if the American public is the enemy. In October of last year, I clearly stated to FAA Administrator Huerta that the North Shore route should be extended for no longer than one year, with an extensive strengthening of altitude requirements and enforcement of flight standards, and a true all water route over the Atlantic Ocean as the permanent solution. The FAA Administrator should immediately reconsider this decision, and if he is unwilling to respond to Congress, or to the concerns of the people whom we were elected to represent, then he should resign or be replaced. I will continue working to protect residents of the East End whose quality of life is severely impacted by aircraft noise. I hope that New York Senators Schumer and Gillibrand will join me in calling on the FAA to put in place a more permanent fix such as the South Shore all water route.”
07.21.2016	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Cancer Caucus and House Working Group on Women in the 21st Century Workforce, sent a letter to the House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman, Fred Upton, and Ranking Member, Frank Pallone, to request that the Accelerating the End of Breast Cancer Act (H.R. 1197), a bill that Congressman Zeldin cosponsors, which is currently in the House Energy and Commerce Committee, is brought to a vote. The Accelerating the End of Breast Cancer Act, which Congressman Zeldin cosponsors, was introduced in the House on March 2, 2015, and has strong bipartisan support with over 270 cosponsors. The bill would establish a commission with the goal of ending breast cancer by January 1, 2020. The commission would be tasked with: identifying opportunities and ideas to end breast cancer, focusing on options that may have been overlooked previously; recommending projects to research and find the causes of breast cancer to help cure and prevent it; and ensuring that all activities are coordinated, and do not duplicate any other efforts, to help prioritize the resources available in the most efficient manner possible. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “Breast cancer is all too prevalent on Long Island and across our country. Every 15 minutes in the United States, one woman dies from breast cancer and 6 more are diagnosed. In New York alone, over 2,400 women die annually from breast cancer and over 16,000 are diagnosed each year. This devastating disease must be stopped, which is why I proudly support, and am calling on the House Energy and Commerce Committee to advance, the Accelerating the End of Breast Cancer Act (H.R. 1197) to help end breast cancer by 2020. This is a widely bipartisan bill with over 270 cosponsors from over 40 different states. This is a commonsense bill that would bring together leading researchers in the biomedical field, businesses, breast cancer advocacy groups and other research advocates to identify promising initiatives and ideas aimed at curbing the rise of breast cancer rates. This legislation also prioritizes the resources that are available and necessary to combat this disease. Since the bill was introduced last year, over 120,000 women have lost their lives to breast cancer, and an additional 240,000 have been diagnosed. We must act now. Additionally, time and time again, history has shown that research breakthroughs in one particular area of focus could lead to breakthroughs in other areas, which is why funding for research will always be one of my top priorities in Congress. I will continue working in Congress to ensure that this bill passes out of committee, and comes to the House floor, to help deliver cures for those suffering from breast cancer and other diseases.” You can view a copy of the letter, which was signed by 11 other members of the House of Representatives, including the entire Long Island Congressional Delegation, here: 07.15.2016_FINAL NY Delegation letter to Reps. Upton & Pallone re HR 1197 Accelerating End of Breast Cancer Act.pdf
07.19.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, announced today that the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, or CARA, conference report (S. 524) that passed the House in an overwhelming bipartisan vote on July 8, 2016, passed the Senate by a vote of 92 to 2. The House and Senate previously passed two similar versions of this bill, which Congressman Zeldin cosponsors. The conference report, which resolves the differences between the two House and Senate bills, passed both the House and Senate and will now be sent to the President to be signed into law. The CARA conference report provides a total of $8.3 billion in funding to help combat the heroin and opioid epidemic. Some provisions of the bill include: $80 million in funding to help prevent and treat addiction on a local level through community-based education, prevention, treatment and recovery programs; $160 million for the expansion of medication-assisted treatment options; and $103 million to establish a community-based competitive grant program to address and treat the problems of heroin and opioid addiction and abuse. The bill would also provide funding necessary to expand prescription drug monitoring across the country, and provide funding to supply our police force and emergency medical responders with higher quantities of Naloxone, a medication that is proven to reverse an opioid overdose. Congressman Zeldin said, “With both House and Senate passage of CARA, a bill that I proudly cosponsor and have been a vocal supporter of since it was first introduced, we are now only one step away from this bill being signed into law. 78 people lose their life every day as a result of an opioid or heroin overdose. Last year, on Long Island alone, 442 people died of a heroin or opiate overdose, up from 403 overdose deaths the year before. As addiction and overdose deaths continue to climb, tearing apart families and communities, it is essential that the President sign CARA into law to start delivering help to those suffering.”
07.18.2016	Bohemia, NY — On Friday, July 15, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Bohemia Fire Department Road Renaming Ceremony in Honor of Thomas D. Croci, Sr., an educator and community leader. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, on Thomas D. Croci Way, with local elected officials and members of the Croci family after the ceremony.
07.18.2016	Southampton, NY — On Saturday, July 16, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) and his family attended the Hamptons Greek Festival at the Dormition of the Virgin Mary Greek Orthodox Church of the Hamptons. In the first picture, Congressman Zeldin and his family are pictured with Father Alex Karloutsos. The Congressman is pictured above in the second picture with members of the church.
07.18.2016	Too many families across America are feeling the dangerous, and sometimes fatal, effects of cancer and other diseases that affect their loved ones. According to the National Institutes of Health, there are currently 10,000 known diseases, with 7,000 of these identified diseases or disorders considered to be “rare.” Unfortunately, as of now, there is only a treatment for 500 of them, leaving millions of Americans and their families suffering without cures. Just one of these devastating diseases is breast cancer, which affects 1 in 8 women. Breast cancer is all too prevalent on Long Island and across our country and we must act swifter if we are to eradicate this serious issue. Throughout the United States, every 15 minutes, one woman dies from breast cancer and 6 more are diagnosed with this devastating disease. Right here, in New York, over 2,400 women die annually from breast cancer and over 16,000 are diagnosed each year. The Accelerating the End of Breast Cancer Act (H.R. 1197), one of many bills in the House that I cosponsor, is a bill that supports all efforts to end breast cancer by 2020. This bill, which I have been advocating for passage of since entering Congress, is a commonsense piece of legislation that would bring together leading researchers in the biomedical field, businesses, breast cancer advocacy groups and other research advocates to identify promising initiatives and ideas aimed at curbing the rise of breast cancer rates. Since the bill was introduced last year, over 120,000 women have lost their lives, and an additional 240,000 have been diagnosed. This legislation would harness the resources available and necessary to combat this disease. Additionally, as history has shown time and time again, research breakthroughs in one particular area of focus could have several other applications as well, potentially resulting in a host of new treatment options for several different diseases. This is a widely bipartisan bill with over 270 cosponsors from over 40 different states and I will continue working in Congress to ensure that this bill comes to the House Floor for passage. During my first 18 months in Congress, I have been working to advance research on many fronts to create the next generation of cures and deliver hope to those suffering from various diseases. In addition to securing funding for research, the House also passed bipartisan legislation that I cosponsored, the 21st Century Cures Act (H.R. 6), which would help improve and modernize our nation’s healthcare, accelerating the process for scientific advancement, while providing desperately needed research funding. The 21st Century Cures Act would secure $10 billion for the National Institutes of Health, which would provide additional research and development resources for Stony Brook University Research Center, Brookhaven National Laboratory, and other research laboratories right here on Long Island. The legislation would also boost the field of personalized medicine, tailoring treatment to patients’ needs. This bill currently awaits further action in the Senate, which is why our U.S. Senators must act swiftly to bring this bill to a vote in their chamber. Improving our nation’s healthcare must be a top priority in Congress, and I will continue to fight for adequate funding to deliver more resources for research labs and hospitals. These terrible diseases have affected us all, whether directly or indirectly. We as a nation have made some incredible advances in the medical field, but there is still much more work to be done. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York. He is a member of the House Cancer Caucus and Congressional Diabetes Caucus, which both support increased funding for research and development to cure diseases.
07.14.2016	Washington, DC — Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after the apparent terror attack this evening in Nice, France: “Tonight in Nice, France, at least 75 innocent individuals were horrifically murdered in an apparent terrorist attack during Bastille Day celebrations. Americans mourn with the victims, their families, and the French people. Beyond mourning, we must renew our commitment to eliminate this rising terror threat around the world and here at home. In the hours and days ahead we will learn more facts about tonight, but regardless, we know enough to conclude that we are all under attack and must do a better job identifying the threat and destroying the threat.”
07.14.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, voted in support of the Iran Accountability Act of 2016 (H.R. 5631) and the U.S. Financial System Protection Act (H.R. 4992), which both passed the House today, on the one year anniversary of the Iran Nuclear “Deal.” You can watch the Congressman discuss the Iran Accountability Act and the U.S. Financial System Protection Act on the House floor today, by clicking here and here.
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-N.Y.) and U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) today issued the following statement on the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations’ (PSI) bipartisan report titled “Review of U.S. State Department Grants to OneVoice,” which confirms that U.S. taxpayer dollars were provided to an organization that sought to oust Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu: “OneVoice’s previous history of being involved in past Israeli elections should have been enough of a red flag not to provide grants under any circumstances,” Cruz and Zeldin said. “Yet the State Department’s apparent lack of oversight, either deliberate or blatantly incompetent, is nonetheless completely unacceptable in either respect. Our taxpayer dollars should not be used to further any effort to overthrow the duly-elected leader of a democratic ally, even if he or she is not politically aligned with the current American administration. Instead of undermining the will of Israelis in the only true democracy in the Middle East, America should be providing our close ally Israel with our steadfast support.” Sen. Cruz and Rep. Zeldin first sent a letter to the State Department on January 29, 2015, expressing strong concerns over media reports a taxpayer funded 501(c)3 non-profit called OneVoice was actively working with V15 to influence the outcome of the March 17, 2015 Israeli elections and calling for a State Department investigation into the matter. After further alarming news reports indicated OneVoice was engaged in overt political activity, they sent a letter to IRS Commissioner John Koskinen on March 3, 2015 questioning whether OneVoice was acting in violation of its tax exempt status. The IRS refused to answer their questions. This new PSI report confirms much of the disturbing allegations raised in the Cruz-Zeldin letters to both the State Department and the IRS. OneVoice built a major grassroots campaign infrastructure and operation using grants provided by the State Department, which was then subsequently utilized during the Israeli election with the specific goal of defeating Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in the Israeli election. A consulting firm founded by two former Obama campaign operatives, 270 Strategies, received its own State Department grant and approval to advise OneVoice on constructing this effort. The political game plan was further devised during the State Department’s grant period and was even emailed to a top State Department official who deleted it--and then, subsequently, not only denied reading it, but also claimed to be unaware it was against government policy to delete such emails.
07.14.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced today that an amendment he introduced in the House of Representatives to the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2017 (H.R. 5538) passed the House with a vote of 225 to 202. The Zeldin amendment bars funding for the designation of any National Marine Monuments by the President in the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). Marine Monuments are massive areas of ocean where fishing would be banned without consulting the local community, fishermen, or regional fisheries managers. You can watch the Congressman discuss his amendment on the House floor, by clicking here. Congressman Zeldin’s amendment would prevent abuse of the Antiquities Act of 1906, which was signed into law by President Teddy Roosevelt, and gives a President the sole power to declare National Monuments on federal land and waters. These are traditionally historical sites and conservation areas that become part of the National Parks System. Throughout its history, the Antiquities Act has had bipartisan support, and was used to preserve the Statue of Liberty and Grand Canyon. However, for fishermen on Long Island and nationwide, the Obama administration’s overzealous interpretation of this law is causing great concern as the President is pushing to apply this power to large areas of ocean off the coast of the United States. In 2014, President Obama declared a 407,000 square mile National Marine Monument in the Pacific Ocean where commercial fishing was banned and recreational fishing was severely limited. Now, important fishing areas in the Northwest Atlantic, where fishermen from Greenport and Montauk have worked for centuries, are under consideration with little public input and no transparency. Congressman Zeldin said, “The Antiquities Act has been an effective tool in the past to preserve historic sites like the Statue of Liberty, but the overly broad interpretation of this law held by the current Administration is threatening to shutdown thousands of square miles of ocean from fishing through a Presidential Proclamation. My amendment ensures that this President, or the next President, does not abuse the Antiquities Act to lock out thousands of fishermen on Long Island and nationwide from portions of federal waters that contain essential fisheries. We must protect our oceans and the solution is clear—any efforts to create a marine protected area must be done through the transparent process laid out by the Magnusson-Stevens fishery conservation law, not through executive fiat that threatens to put thousands of hardworking men and women out of business. Recent Marine Monument designations proclaimed by the Obama Administration have been the largest in U.S. history, locking out fishing in perpetuity—a severe departure from the original intent of the Antiquities Act to preserve historical sites and archeological treasures. Protecting the seafood economy, coastal communities, and the hardworking men and women of the seafood industry who provide for their families through fishing is a top priority for my constituents on the east end of Long Island. I will keep fighting to get this proposal signed into law on behalf of fishermen on Long Island and throughout the nation.” Congressman Rob Bishop, Chairman, House Natural Resources Committee, said, “Many Presidents—but not all—have used the Antiquities Act, but they use it sparingly. Only a few Administrations, including this one, have abused the Act. President Obama has a long history of abusing the Antiquities Act, locking up land and water with the stroke of a pen. As we heard at a field hearing in Riverhead, New York, unilateral marine monument designations override the current public process of established fisheries management and threatens the livelihood of the U.S. fishing industry. Congressman Zeldin’s amendment brings us one step closer to protecting local economies while safeguarding local input in management decisions.” Congressman Ken Calvert, Chairman, House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies, said, “I strongly support Rep. Zeldin’s amendment and am thankful that he’s raised this important issue. I believe monument designations should only be made when there is careful consultation and agreement between affected stakeholders and local officials. Unfortunately, the Obama administration continues to take an approach with little public input and no transparency.” Jim Donofrio, Executive Director and Founder, Recreational Fishing Alliance, said, "Mr. Zeldin again proves he has the interests of the fishing community in his sights by introducing his amendment to H.R. 5525." Bonnie Brady, Executive Director, Long Island Commercial Fishing Association, said, “Long Island's commercial fishermen and their coastal communities are incredibly appreciative of Congressman Lee Zeldin's efforts to protect them from future Antiquities Act underwater monument designations through his amendment to HR 5388. Over eight million pounds of US seafood is sustainably harvested each year from the Georges Banks canyons and New England Seamounts within the EEZ, a great deal of which is caught by New York fishermen, sustaining hundreds of jobs in New York alone and nationwide thousands of jobs in coastal communities. These are the critical waters that Mr. Zeldin’s amendment will protect. Those that joined with Congressman Zeldin in supporting his amendment last night also voted to protect, and promote this nations' economic security on behalf of US commercial fishermen who sustainably harvest our nation's seafood, and we thank them for it. We are grateful for the Congressman's tenacity and determination to continue to protect sustainable US commercial fishing.”
07.14.2016	Washington, DC – On July 12, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with students from Smithtown High School East who were recognized as the winners of the U.S. Department of Energy’s Bioenergy Technologies Office (BETO) 2016 BioenergizeME Infographic Challenge. As winners of the challenge, the team received the Director’s Prize for Excellence in Content, Design, and Social Media Promotion and was invited to present their infographic at BETO’s Bioenergy 2016 in Washington, D.C., which was hosted from July 12–14. While in Washington, DC, Congressman Zeldin met with the winners to congratulate them. Pictured above with Congressman Zeldin, from left to right, are: Maria Zeitlin, the winners’ advisor, and Lexi Zografakis, Sydney Bracht and Sidney Davis, Smithtown High School East students and winners of the BETO 2016 BioenergizeME Infographic Challenge. Not pictured is the fourth winner who couldn’t attend, Catriona Sheppard.
07.13.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced today that the Postal Service Reform Act of 2016, (H.R. 5714), a bipartisan bill that was introduced this week in the House, including a section within the bill that would mandate the hamlets of Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton, in the Town of Southampton on Eastern Long Island, be assigned a new, unique zip code, passed out of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform yesterday. Within the Postal Service Reform Act of 2016, Congressman Zeldin secured his proposal in Section 211 of the bill, which can be found on pages 88-89, that states that upon this legislation being signed into law, the Flanders, Northampton, and Riverside communities in the Town of Southampton, New York, will receive a single, unique ZIP code no later than September 30, 2017. Currently, these three hamlets each share the same zip code, 11901, with the nearby Town of Riverhead, causing a number of issues in the local community. Since entering Congress in 2015, Congressman Zeldin has been trying to work with the USPS to secure a new zip code for Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton. In August 2015, Congressman Zeldin signed and sent a letter to the Postmaster officially requesting that the hamlets of Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton, be assigned a new zip code in order to make them distinguishable from Riverhead Town. The Post Office, which denied the initial request that Congressman Zeldin then appealed, has since been unresponsive. Congressman Zeldin said, “According to research initiated by the concerned residents of these hamlets, there are currently 18 identical street names and 32 similar street names - and possibly more - that are shared between these Southampton hamlets and Riverhead Town. This causes a number of issues in the local community and makes things very confusing for postal carriers, which leads to mail and packages being delivered to the wrong address, and sometimes even being routed as far away as Flanders, New Jersey. Furthermore, sometimes these packages aren’t able to be delivered, with packages frequently being marked as ‘return to sender’ or ‘address unknown.’” Congressman Zeldin continued, “For residents of these three hamlets, this has been a top priority for several years. The overlapping zip codes of Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton with Riverhead has caused many issues, including delayed deliveries, which is not just a nuisance to the local community, but can also greatly impact quality of life, especially when the packages hold important goods like critical, life-altering medications. The shared street names and zip codes within the towns can also cause major problems for police, first responders, and other emergency personnel, who may arrive at the wrong address due to these shared street names with the same zip code. These kinds of mistakes and problems can all be avoided by assigning a new and unique zip code to Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton. Over the coming days and weeks, I will work with my colleagues in the House to ensure that this bill is passed before the end of the year.” You can view a copy of the bill here.
07.11.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, released a statement today in response to German intelligence reports claiming that Iran has attempted to acquire nuclear technology in violation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA): “Iran cannot be trusted. Throughout the negotiation process, Iran was not negotiating in good faith. They were not at the table as freedom-loving, good citizens of the world. The Iranians were only there for one thing: sanctions relief. Iran is the largest state sponsor of terrorism, actively working to overthrow foreign governments, while pledging to wipe Israel off the map and chanting Death to America in their streets. It is not surprising that now that sanctions relief has been provided, Iran is attempting to violate the agreement. The continued denial by the Obama Administration and their most loyal political supporters only emboldens the Iranians. We can and still should change course and pursue a better direction for American security and the stability of the Middle East.” The German intelligence report can be found here.
07.11.2016	Patchogue, NY – On Sunday, July 10, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended a veteran art exhibit at Artspace in Patchogue that included artists from the Long Island State Veterans Home and VA Hospital, various veterans from around Long Island, and veteran families and friends. Pictured above, from left to right, are: Marge Ryan, Project9Line Director; Dave Rogers, Project9Line Art Director; Congressman Lee Zeldin; Babylon Town Councilwoman Jacqueline A. Gorden; and George Barret, Commander VFW Post 2913.
07.11.2016	Centereach, NY – On Sunday, July 10, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended an Eagle Court of Honor ceremony for Thomas Bassett, Neal Browning, Andrew Farina, Trevor Galvez, Joseph Paoli, Zachary Quinn, Michael Ragone, and Joseph Scuderi, of Troop 356 at the Centereach Fire Department. The Congressman spoke at the ceremony and presented awards to each of the Eagle Scouts.
07.11.2016	One of my highest local priorities over the past 18 months has been to protect one of our local treasures, Plum Island. In 2008, a federal law was enacted requiring Plum Island to be sold by the federal government to the highest bidder. The current law is the wrong path forward, because it does not provide for continued research, public access and permanent preservation. The House of Representatives last week passed for the second time in less than 60 days, a proposal of mine to stop the sale of Plum Island. We now need the United States Senate to act in earnest. In May, the House passed my legislation, H.R. 1887, which would reverse the 2008 law that mandated the public sale of Plum Island by the federal government to the highest bidder. Under my legislation, the Government Accountability Office, in consultation with the Department of Homeland Security, which currently owns the island, would be responsible for formulating a comprehensive plan for the future of the island, including possible alternative uses. Just a few examples include a transfer of ownership to another federal agency, the state or local government, a non-profit, or a combination thereof for the purpose of education, research, and conservation. Last week, I introduced and secured passage of an amendment to the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act of 2017 (H.R. 5485), which would prohibit any of the funding within the appropriations bill to be used to market or sell Plum Island. This is just one more effort to ensure that we can pursue a better direction for Plum Island that would allow for continued research, public access and permanent preservation of the island. Both of these proposals passed the House unanimously with bipartisan support, but House passage is only one step in getting this much needed legislation through Congress and signed into law. In order for either of these legislative efforts to become law, the U.S. Senate also must pass this legislation to ensure that Plum Island is not sold to the highest bidder, but rather is preserved for generations to come. These are not my only House passed proposals that we need the Senate to act on. Additional legislation I have introduced and secured House passage on include: the Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2015 (H.R. 4314), to help stop the movement of foreign fighters abroad; my bills to improve veterans’ quality of life, including H.R. 2640, to provide Adult Day Health Care for disabled veterans at no cost, H.R. 1569, to require the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to pay accrued benefits to the estate of deceased veterans, and H.R. 1187, to eliminate the loan limit that the VA can guarantee for a veteran; and H.R. 3070, which would clarify federal laws governing the management of the striped bass fishery in the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) between Montauk, New York, and Block Island, Rhode Island, a necessary step to permit striped bass fishing in these waters. The United States Senate is in a very important position now to act on these top priorities and others for our Congressional District. As this current session of Congress concludes, I will continue to advocate for the Senate to get these items across the finish line in that chamber. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York. In Congress, Rep. Zeldin serves on the House Foreign Affairs, Veterans’ Affairs and Transportation and Infrastructure Committees.
07.08.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, announced today that the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, or CARA, conference report (S. 524) was passed by the House with a bipartisan vote of 407-5. The House and Senate previously passed two similar versions of this bill, which Congressman Zeldin cosponsors. The conference report, which resolves the differences between the two House and Senate bills, passed the House today and will now be sent to the Senate for a final vote. Upon Senate passage, CARA will be sent to the President to be signed into law. The CARA conference report provides a total of $8.3 billion in funding to help combat the heroin and opioid epidemic. Major provisions of the bill include: $80 million in funding to help prevent and treat addiction on a local level through community-based education, prevention, treatment and recovery programs; $160 million for the expansion of medication-assisted treatment options; and $103 million to establish a community-based competitive grant program to address and treat the problems of heroin and opioid addiction and abuse. The bill would also provide the funding necessary to expand prescription drug monitoring across the country, and provide funding to supply our police force and emergency medical responders with higher quantities of Naloxone, a medication that is proven to reverse an opioid overdose. Congressman Zeldin said, “As a cosponsor of CARA, I have been a vocal supporter of this bill since it was first introduced at the beginning of last year. Over the past year, as a member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, I have worked closely with our local community, hosting multiple drug task force round tables here on Long Island, to bring together local elected officials, law enforcement, health professionals, community groups, parents, concerned residents and those in recovery, to discuss and develop a more localized solution to address this crisis. Together, we’ve expressed our strong commitment to advance CARA in the House of Representatives to help combat the growing drug epidemic that is sweeping across our island, state and nation; a crisis that has been spreading at rapid rates leaving behind a terrible wake of devastation and suffering — taking lives, tearing families apart, and destroying communities. Now, with House passage of this conference report, we are one step closer to getting this bill signed into law by the President. I implore the Senate to act quickly to pass this bill, so that we can start providing the necessary resources to those in need. While there is not just one piece of legislation that will solve this crisis, we must always continue our fight to provide our local communities with the resources necessary to help stop and prevent drug abuse through treatment, enforcement, and education.”
07.08.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement in response to the murder last night of 5 police officers in Dallas, Texas. “Last night, in a deadly targeted attack against our police force, five law enforcement officers lost their lives and seven others were injured. Our entire country mourns this loss. These brave men in uniform sacrificed their lives to keep Dallas secure. There is no excuse for this hateful act. All Americans, regardless of race, gender, socio economic status, or religion, must join together in these trying times in order for our nation to move forward stronger. Police officers and first responders merit our unwavering appreciation as loyal Americans, and we must stand with them. There should be no divide between police and the citizens that they serve. We must unite around our police officers and first responders and support them, just as they support us each and every day.”
07.07.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, announced today that another legislative proposal that he introduced in the House of Representatives to save Plum Island passed the House unanimously today with bipartisan support. Congressman Zeldin’s amendment to the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act of 2017 (H.R. 5485), prohibits any of the funding within the appropriations bill to be used to market or sell Plum Island. The bipartisan amendment was cosponsored by Reps. Joe Courtney and Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut, and Reps. Peter King and Steve Israel of New York. The U.S. Senate must now also pass this appropriations bill with Congressman Zeldin’s proposal in order to become law. Passage of this amendment follows passage of Congressman Zeldin’s bill in May of 2016, H.R. 1887, to stop the sale of Plum Island to the highest bidder. In order for H.R. 1887 to become law, the U.S. Senate also must pass the bill which is currently in the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. Congressman Zeldin said, “Yet again, the House of Representatives is acting to save Plum Island by passing my legislative proposals to stop a sale to the highest bidder. It is time for the United States Senate to act and pass my proposals so that we can pursue a better direction for Plum Island that would allow for continued research, public access and permanent preservation of the island.”
07.07.2016	Patchogue, NY – On July 5, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) welcomed members of Suffolk County United Veterans to his Patchogue District Office in preparation of the 4th Annual "Kick Stand Up" motorcycle race event on July 24 that benefits homeless veterans. Pictured above, from left to right, are: Wilkens Young, Director of Suffolk County United Veterans; Michael Stoltz, CEO of Association for Mental Health and Wellness; Congressman Zeldin; Joanne Massimo, Program Director of Suffolk County United Veterans; and John Schultz, Project Coordinator of Joseph P. Dwyer Veterans Peer Support Group.
07.06.2016	Washington, DC – On July 6, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, opened the House GOP Leadership Press Conference discussing his legislation, the Protect America Act (H.R. 4237), which would prevent terrorists from purchasing firearms or explosives while protecting the due process rights of Americans. Also in attendance: Speaker of the House Paul Ryan, House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, House Republican Conference Chair, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, and House Republican Conference Vice Chair, Rep. Lynn Jenkins. You can watch Congressman Zeldin discuss his legislation here and read a copy of the transcript below. "Congress’ most important role is to keep Americans safe, secure and free. We are too often reminded that while we frequently hear and read about terrorist attacks abroad, we have a very real, ongoing homeland security threat within our own borders. In the wake of the Orlando terrorist attack, and the rise of terrorism across the world, it is important, now more than ever, that our nation and the free world define and eliminate the threat posed by Islamic terror groups. This week, the House will take action on a counterterrorism package to help protect our country and citizens. Included in this package is language from my proposal, the Protect America Act (H.R. 4237), which would prevent terrorists from purchasing firearms or explosives while protecting the due process rights of Americans. I have not met one member of Congress in favor of terrorists being able to purchase firearms. The real debate is whether and how to ensure due process for Americans. My proposal with Senator Cornyn in no way, shape or form infringes upon the rights of law abiding gun owners. What it does is ensure that terrorists do not have the ability to legally purchase firearms. Isn’t that the goal here? Two weeks ago, House Democrats waged a disruptive and destructive sit-in to shut down Congress because they supposedly wanted to pass legislation that prevents terrorists from being able to purchase firearms. Now they can, with this proposal coming to the House floor, but Democrats are opposing it for no good reason. It’s because they only want the political fight, and because they don’t want to confront the three inconvenient truths I’m about to address. Regardless of whether you are a liberal Democrat or a Conservative Republican, my proposal with Senator Cornyn should be supported by all. It would require only the most partisan, bad intentions of my Democratic colleagues not to be praising and supporting this legislation. Just think about it. It would also be the height of hypocrisy and irony not to push this measure with their full energy. This bill wasn’t written by the NRA. This proposal was drafted by members of Congress who understand how to prevent terrorists from purchasing firearms while protecting the due process rights of Americans. There are three very important truths that my Democratic colleagues shouldn’t find so inconvenient (1) The Orlando shooter was an Islamic terrorist pledging allegiance to ISIS and yelling “Allahu Akbar”; and (2) the rifle and handgun used in the Orlando shooting didn’t just march itself into the nightclub and discharge itself. I’ll get to the third inconvenient fact in a moment. But first I want to point out that in reality, there is a whole lot more going on here beyond a gun control debate and attempts by members of Congress to narrow this issue so glaringly is alienating the rest of our country who understand the bigger picture. We also must unite to ID the threat of radical Islam because you cannot eliminate a threat that you are not willing to identify, and what makes matters worse, is that it is clear that even if the President ID’ed the threat, he has no idea how to eliminate it. And that unfortunately is the third inconvenient truth. Congress has a duty to prioritize national security over party politics, which is why Democrats should join House Republicans in passing this important proposal to prevent terrorists from purchasing firearms to keep Americans safe. It is their duty."
07.05.2016	Southampton, NY – On July 4, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the Southampton Fourth of July Parade. The Congressman is pictured above during the parade.
07.05.2016	Southold, NY – On July 4, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the Southold Fourth of July Parade. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above (left) with Southold Town Councilman Jim Dinizio (center) and State Assemblyman Anthony Palumbo (right).
07.05.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement after today’s announcement on the FBI investigation of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton: “No one is above the law. Today, exceptions were made for Hillary Clinton. Title 18, U.S. Code Section 793(f) is just one federal law that was rewritten today to carve out an exception for Hillary Clinton. Intent is not an element of this gross negligence statute. On the Department of Justice building, etched in stone, is the quote 'Where law ends, tyranny begins'. One of the biggest issues here is that every day, Americans are prosecuted in criminal courts for so much less. Hillary Clinton not only grossly mishandled classified information in a very convoluted and reckless scheme, but then she lied about it. America notices when time and again, the Clintons bring the system down with them, rather than leading consistently with a strong moral compass.”
07.05.2016	Port Jefferson, NY – On Friday, July 1, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with officials of the Bridgeport and Port Jefferson Steamboat Company at their Port Jefferson facility where they discussed and toured the ferry operations. Rep. Zeldin is pictured above, left, with Fred Hall, Vice President and General Manager, and Eric McAllister, one of the owners of the ferry company.
07.05.2016	Shoreham, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Brookhaven Town Highway Superintendent Daniel P. Losquadro and Brookhaven Town Councilwoman Jane Bonner announced the completion of repairs to protect, restore and strengthen Sills Gully Beach in Shoreham, after it was severely damaged during Super Storm Sandy in 2012. In order to reduce risk of future storm events, the Brookhaven Highway Department completely removed the ineffective gabion basket walls, replacing them with 160 feet of steel bulkhead with stone-toe protection to prevent scouring. The bulkhead—which now protects areas of the bluff that have experienced significant levels of erosion in the past—has a longer life span than the gabion walls and will better protect from future disasters. As a result of these mitigation measures and to comply with Tidal Wetlands and Clean Water Act permits, Brookhaven Highway included upgrades to the existing storm water system by installing a new bio-retention area where storm water naturally collects. This bio-retention area consists of two, 12-foot deep leaching basins and an eight-foot wide trash rack to capture storm water and transport it through nearly 400 feet of 48-inch, smooth, interior-corrugated polyethylene pipe for natural dissipation. Additionally, a rock-lined drainage swale was constructed along the length of the parking lot to collect any remaining runoff. These upgrades will ensure that polluted storm water is not directly entering the Long Island Sound. The project was funded with an $875,000-federal grant, secured by Congressman Zeldin through FEMA. Congressman Zeldin, member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, said, “Once Brookhaven Town received the necessary federal funding to make repairs at Sills Gully Beach and Gully Landing Drainage Facility, the town was able to complete this important project. This revitalization project will help protect, restore and strengthen Sills Gully Beach in Shoreham, and the overall quality of water in our local area, and I am proud to join with Superintendent Losquadro and Councilwoman Bonner to announce the completion of this project.” “The revitalization project at Sills Gully is one of a dozen North Shore surface water quality protection projects the Highway Department has undertaken since I took office,” said Superintendent Losquadro. “I want to thank Congressman Zeldin for expediting the federal funding necessary to complete this project and ensure the resilience of our shoreline.” “The completion of restoration at Sills Gully Beach is an excellent example of different levels of government working together for the benefit of our community, “ said Councilwoman Bonner. “I have been diligently working on this issue since the damage was caused by Super Storm Sandy in 2012, and I am extremely happy to see these necessary repairs come to fruition. By preventing storm water runoff from entering the Long Island Sound this is a victory for the residents of Shoreham and the environment. I want to thank Congressman Zeldin and Superintendent Losquadro for working with me to make this happen.”
07.05.2016	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and Long Island Sound Caucus, sent a letter to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) opposing their proposed rule, “Ocean Disposal; Designation of a Dredged Material Disposal Site in Eastern Region of Long Island Sound; Connecticut (81 FR 24748),” which would continue open water dumping of dredge waste in the Eastern Long Island Sound for up to 30 years, despite the agency previously committing to close both of the Eastern Long Sound disposal sites (ELDS), Cornfield Shoals and New London, by December 23, 2016. Congressman Zeldin said, “The EPA’s proposal to extend and expand the open water dumping of dredge waste in the Eastern Long Island Sound for up to 30 years, is unacceptable and shows an extreme lack of concern for public input after nearly a year of outcry from the citizens of Long Island in opposition to the revised Dredged Materials Management Plan (DMMP). The Long Island Sound is an EPA designated Estuary of National Significance and one of the nation’s most populated watersheds. Through work with the EPA, state and local governments, and dedicated Long Islanders, progress has been made to improve water quality and ecosystem health in the Sound. All of this we owe to the improvement of this critical ecosystem so it is critical that the EPA and Army Corps do not impede this progress through this misguided proposal. Time and again, the people of Long Island and their elected representatives have made it clear to the EPA and to the Army Corps of Engineers that open water dumping in the Long Island Sound must be phased out, not expanded, which is why this proposed rule must be rejected.” You can view a copy of the letter here: 06.30.2016_FINAL Letter to adm. Gina McCarthy re EPA's proposed rule Ocean Disposal Dredged Material LI Sound (2).pdf
07.05.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, led a letter in the House of Representatives seeking answers from Secretary of State John Kerry and Secretary of the Treasury Jack Lew regarding Iran Air’s activities and ownership. According to the June 2011 Treasury designation of Iran Air, it was “used by the IRGC and Iran’s Ministry of Defense and Armed Forces Logistics (MODAFL) to transport military related equipment…Iran Air has shipped military-related equipment on behalf of the IRGC since 2006, and in September and November 2008, Iran Air shipped aircraft-related raw materials to a MODAFL-associated company, including titanium sheets, which have dual-use military applications and can be used in support of advanced weapons programs.” It further stated that “(r)ockets or missiles have been transported via Iran Air passenger aircraft, and IRGC officers occasionally take control over Iran Air flights carrying special IRGC-related cargo.” Despite this, as a concession under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), Iran Air had its secondary sanctions lifted and it is not present on the list of entities designated as appendages of the Government of Iran. Congressman Zeldin said, “In response to the recent delisting of Iran Air under the JCPOA, my colleagues and I are concerned with the status and ownership of the airline, especially because we have seen little evidence that Iran Air has either privatized or changed its ownership structure. Given Iran Air’s past behavior, and the frequent misuse by the Iranian government, my House colleagues and I are seeking responses from the U.S. State and Treasury Departments on whether Iran Air has engaged in prohibited activities within the past two years. We also are requesting information on Iran Air’s ownership status, specifically to address our concerns regarding the possible involvement of the Iranian government. I am looking forward to a prompt reply regarding Iran Air from Secretaries Kerry and Lew.” You can view a copy of the letter, which was signed by 14 other members of the House of Representatives, here: 6_28_16_Iran Air.pdf
07.04.2016	240 years ago today, a revolutionary concept, one which has lit the world since its inception, was drafted by our founding fathers: a government for the people and by the people, where no man was above the law and freedom and liberty would reign. Against the greatest military force of the time, we declared in one unified voice that we would no longer be subject to the tyrannical rule of a King thousands of miles away, and that we, as one indivisible nation, would control our own destiny. That concept is America, and today we are reminded of the fight our people took to establish this democracy and we honor the sacrifices of all those who came before us to make this nation the envy of the world. While celebrating today with friends and loved ones at barbecues, parades, firework shows and other festivities, we must not forget the history that is rooted in this day and appreciate the freedom we have and those who fought to attain it during the revolution; those early Americans who, as Francis Scott Key noted, searched in the night for that earlier version of our battle torn banner. On this day in 1776, 56 patriots came forth and in a voice of defiance declared that “We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.” While this phrase may seem commonplace today, it was considered high treason to the crown at the time and punishable by death. “We must all hang together, or, assuredly, we will all hang separately,” quipped Benjamin Franklin. In the face of the ensuing tribulations, bloodshed, and despair, ardent patriots like Major Benjamin Tallmadge of Setauket who commanded the 2nd Continental Dragoons and Chief Intelligence officer for General George Washington, and Ann Strong, also of Setauket, who was an essential intelligence agent in the infamous Culper Spy Ring, continued to fight to establish a nation of free individuals. America has shown time and again that she is ready and able to meet the many challenges to preserve our security. Since the birth of this nation, democracy has spread across the globe. While we as a people have accomplished a great deal of things, much work remains ahead. Until all the world’s people can achieve the dream of Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness as outlined by our founding fathers all those years ago, we must not rest, but remain vigilant in defending our democracy and American values, especially from those individuals or groups who try to take that from us. While our detractors seek to oppose us at every turn, we will follow the examples set by our founding fathers and persevere; we will honor their sacrifices, and make sure that the country they fought so hard to attain is never lost. Most importantly, we will continue to spread our message of freedom and opportunity for all across the globe. In keeping with the founding fathers’ desire to ensure every citizen’s well-being, we must also ensure that our elected officials are living up to their promises as well. One of Congress’ most important responsibilities is passing laws that both ensure the safety of our citizens, but also does not trample the rights of law abiding citizens. In the wake of the recent terror attack in Orlando, Florida, and the rise of terror across the world, Congress must act to protect our citizens. For these reasons, I proposed legislation several months ago, the Protect America Act, which would prevent terrorists from purchasing firearms or explosives while protecting the due process rights of Americans. My proposal with Senator Cornyn, which will come to a vote on the House floor this upcoming week, in no way, shape or form infringes upon the rights of law abiding gun owners. What it does is ensure that terrorists do not have the ability to legally purchase firearms. While we frequently hear and read about terrorist attacks abroad, we have a very real, ongoing homeland security threat here within our own border, which is why we must remain ever vigilant in the fight against terror and always stand ready. America is a threat to evil, and has consequently been challenged by evil forces and actors in every chapter of her history. Today, we celebrate the creation of the greatest nation in the world. We not only honor our great past but eagerly commit to an even brighter future. Let us remember the founders of this country, their vision, and the great responsibility entrusted in turn to each and every one of us. We must also thank all of the service members who continue to sacrifice their lives to defend our great nation, especially those who are serving today, who are away from their families so that we can celebrate this day with ours. The memory of these Americans, fighting against tyranny and oppression in Yorktown, Gettysburg, Belleau Wood, Normandy, Inchon, Saigon, Fallujah and Marjah, gently reminds us that blood and treasure will always be the cost of freedom. Congressman Lee Zeldin, an Army veteran who continues to serve today as a Major in the Army Reserves, represents the First Congressional District of New York. In Congress, two of Representative Zeldin’s committee assignments are Veterans Affairs and Foreign Affairs.
07.02.2016	Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, released the following statement regarding the passing of Elie Wiesel: "Elie Wiesel will remain a legend for generations to come. Today we mourn the loss of a giant; a great, influential and inspirational man who committed himself every day to the cause of ensuring that we never forget the atrocities of the Holocaust that he had survived. Never again will the world allow such horror to be repeated and it is the lessons and memories of the life of Elie Wiesel that document a history that should never have transpired in the first place, but surely must never ever transpire again. R.I.P Elie Wiesel."
07.01.2016	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement regarding House Democrats opposing legislation that would prevent terrorists from purchasing firearms: "The House Democrats waged a disruptive sit-in last week to shut down Congress because they supposedly wanted to pass legislation that prevents terrorists from being able to purchase firearms. It’s worth nothing that I haven't met a single member of Congress who wants to see terrorists acquire any firearms or explosives. Now, House Democrats get the opportunity next week to vote to prevent terrorists from purchasing firearms and they are opposing it for no good reason. This development shows that they aren't trying to actually solve the issue. They are just trying to score political points and change the narrative of the Orlando terrorist attack, because their fearless leader isn't exactly "firing on all cyclinders" against Islamic terror as the President claims and those terror groups aren't actually "on the run" as John Kerry alleges. My proposal with Senator Cornyn prevents terrorists from purchasing firearms, while protecting the due process rights of Americans. It should be supported by all on both sides of the aisle. Nancy Pelosi opposes next week's vote because she obviously doesn’t want to actually solve the issue of terrorists purchasing firearms unless she gets all the credit. Additionally, she and many in her party refuse to ID the threat of radical Islam and they certainly are lost in how to eliminate it. The fact is that the Orlando shooter was a radicalized Islamic terrorist who pledged allegiance to ISIS and yelled "Allahu Akbar" while murdering 49 LGBT Americans. If we do not want to face this threat more and more here at home, the President and Congressional Democrats must start choosing to ID and confront it head on and stop playing partisan political games, desperately trying to slip and slide away from reality. If we can prevent terrorists from purchasing firearms while also not infringing on any constitutional rights and also protecting the due process rights of Americans, why should anyone settle for anything less if the honest goal is to prevent terrorists from purchasing firearms?"
06.30.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, just released the following statement regarding his Protect America Act (H.R. 4237), which would prevent terrorists from purchasing firearms or explosives while protecting the due process rights of Americans: "I have not met a single member of Congress in favor of terrorists being able to purchase firearms or explosives. Not one. The real debate is about how to prevent terrorists from purchasing firearms or explosives while also protecting the due process rights of Americans. The Protect America Act, H.R. 4237, is the solution. Regardless of whether you are a liberal Democrat or a Conservative Republican, this measure should be supported by all. It would require only the most partisan, bad intentions of my Democratic colleagues not to be praising and supporting this legislation. It would also be the height of hypocrisy and irony not to push this measure with their full energy. Should the burden be on the government to demonstrate that there is probable cause that the purchaser is a terrorist in order to deny a purchase or should the burden be on the purchaser to demonstrate that there isn’t probable cause that they are a terrorist? The answer is that the burden should be on the government. Should that American have a right to a hearing, notice of that hearing, and right to counsel at that hearing? Yes, of course. The Protect America Act, which was introduced in December 2015, strengthens past proposals by protecting due process rights and removing names from the no fly list and terrorist watch list that should have never been added in the first place. By meeting the evidentiary standard of probable cause, the Protect America Act would grant the Attorney General the authority to deny firearms and explosives to individuals who are engaged in terrorist activities. Affording a hearing, notice and right to counsel for the purchaser, the bill also protects the due process rights of Americans. Additionally, the proposal directs the Attorney General to review and verify the terrorist watch list and no fly list to remove the names of innocent Americans who are not connected to terrorism. Also, any legislative solution should give the Attorney General and FBI the ability to let a specific purchase go through if they are concerned that it would compromise an active terror investigation that they do not want to compromise. Most importantly, it should be noted that while we frequently hear and read about terrorist attacks abroad, we have a very real, ongoing homeland security threat here within our own border, which is why we must remain ever vigilant in the fight against terror. The Orlando shooter who killed 49 innocent Americans was a radicalized Islamic terrorist who pledged allegiance to ISIS and had a violent hatred toward the LGBT community. In this situation, there is a whole lot more going on here beyond a gun control debate and attempts by members of Congress to narrow this issue so glaringly is alienating the rest of our country who understand the bigger picture. Both Democrats and Republicans should join together to help pass my bill to keep firearms and explosives out of terrorists' hands. We also must unite to ID the threat of radical Islam because you cannot eliminate a threat that you are not willing to identify." Congressman Zeldin's Protect America Act can be read here.
06.30.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, announced growing support for his Protect America Act (H.R. 4237), which he introduced on December 11, 2015, in order to prevent terrorists from purchasing firearms or explosives while protecting the due process rights of Americans. Congressman Zeldin said, “My Protect America Act, H.R. 4237, which will help prevent terrorists from purchasing firearms or explosives while protecting the due process rights of Americans, is receiving growing support in Congress, with several new cosponsors now in the House. I will continue working to raise awareness and support of this bill, gathering even more cosponsors, so that the House will act to bring this critical bill to the House floor to help keep Americans safe." By meeting the evidentiary standard of probable cause, the Protect America Act would grant the Attorney General the authority to deny firearms and explosives to individuals who are engaged in terrorist activities. Affording a hearing, notice and right to counsel for the purchaser, the bill also protects the due process rights of Americans. Additionally, the proposal directs the Attorney General to review and verify the terrorist watch list and no fly list to remove the names of innocent Americans who are not connected to terrorism. “While we frequently hear and read about terrorist attacks abroad, we have a very real, ongoing homeland security threat here within our own border, which is why we must remain ever vigilant in the fight against terror. The Orlando shooter who killed 49 innocent Americans was a radicalized Islamic terrorist pledging allegiance to ISIS and had a violent hatred toward the LGBT community. In this situation, there is a whole lot more going on here beyond a gun control debate and attempts by members of Congress to narrow this issue so glaringly is alienating the rest of our country who understand the bigger picture. Both Democrats and Republicans should join together to help pass my bill to keep firearms and explosives out of terrorists hands. We also must unite to ID the threat of radical Islam because you cannot eliminate a threat that you are not willing to identify,” Congressman Zeldin concluded. Congressman Zeldin's Protect America Act can be read here.
06.29.2016	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, announced today that the Army Corps of Engineers’ Draft General Reevaluation Report (GRR), which determines what projects will be included in the next phase of the Fire Island to Montauk Point (FIMP) Project, will be released in mid-July and contains $1.16 billion in funding for essential dredging and shoreline projects. Some of the highlights include: -Beach and dune nourishment throughout the FIMP area, including beaches and waterfront on the Great South Bay, Moriches Inlet, Fire Island, and Westhampton barrier islands, among other locations. -Dredging to maintain Fire Island Inlet, Moriches Inlet, and Shinnecock Inlet. -Groin (jetty) modifications at Westhampton and Ocean Beach. -Raising of 4,000 homes, and road raising in Mastic, NY for 5.9 miles of road to protect 1,054 homes, including Riviera Drive. -Support of the local management plan of Georgica Pond, and continued erosion protection along Potato Road and Downtown Montauk. -Construction of dunes on Dune Road and option for a “betterment” project to raise Dune Road. The plan also includes a variety of coastal and wetland restoration projects that will use the natural environment to reduce flooding, erosion, and storm damage, while also preserving the natural environment and habitat for wildlife. This will be especially beneficial in areas like Mastic Beach where bulkheading or other hard structures are not the solution, and for back bay areas where the loss of wetlands has led to flooding. Congressman Zeldin said, “Since my first day in Congress 18 months ago, I have been fighting hard to secure the many victories coming to NY-1 as a result of the draft GRR about to be publicly released. I would like to thank the Army Corps of Engineers for their responsiveness and attention to detail in ensuring that the priorities of my constituents received the highest consideration. I look forward to the coming months when district residents have the opportunity to weigh in with their feedback and I look forward to the years ahead as we witness a massive investment of our federal tax dollars being returned to our congressional district in a way never witnessed before.” There will be an environmental review and public comment period including multiple public hearings on Long Island in August. The comment period will close in September, and the final report and EIS will be submitted to the Army Corps Chief for his approval at the end of December 2016.
06.28.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, renewed his call on the U.S. Senate to act now to pass his legislation to stop the sale of Plum Island (H.R. 1887) in light of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) study on Plum Island that was just released. Congressman Zeldin said, “The DHS report makes it clear that selling Plum Island to the highest bidder is the wrong answer for the economy, environment and local community. The DHS report that was just released lists some potential alternatives for the island, but reinforces the need for the Senate to act now to pass my bill to stop the sale of Plum Island (H.R. 1887). While my legislation previously passed the House, we are still waiting for the Senate to act on this important bill to pursue a better direction for Plum Island that would allow for continued research, public access and permanent preservation. I thank Senator Blumenthal for his leadership and partnership on this issue thus far and look forward to supporting his efforts however possible to see this legislation now passed in the Senate as well.” On May 16, 2016, the House of Representatives passed Congressman Zeldin’s bill to stop the sale of Plum Island by the federal government to the highest bidder (H.R. 1887). The bill passed unanimously with strong bipartisan support. A link to the DHS study can be found here: Alternatives for Final Disposition of Plum Island.pdf
06.27.2016	On June 11, 2016, in Orlando, Florida, a terrorist, who pledged allegiance to ISIS and radical Islam while violently targeting LGBT Americans, took the lives of 49 innocent people and severely wounded 53 others. While we frequently hear and read about terrorist attacks abroad, we have a very real, ongoing homeland security threat here within our own borders. Radicalized Islamic terrorists want to strip away the freedoms and liberties we all cherish as Americans. There is a whole lot more going on here beyond a gun control debate and attempts by members of Congress to narrow this issue so glaringly is alienating the rest of our country who understand the bigger picture. Radical Islam is at war with the United States, although our President and Congressional Democrats are not yet at war with radical Islam. Whether ISIS or other Islamic terrorists carry out their attacks with an explosive device, knife or firearm, the fact remains that they will not rest until they either destroy us or we destroy them. For many Americans, the Sig Sauer Rifle and handgun apparently walked itself into the Orlando night club and discharged itself without a jihadist behind the trigger yelling "Allahu Akbar" while slaughtering dozens of innocent Americans. As far as preventing terrorists from being able to acquire firearms and explosives, I completely agree with that mission and quite frankly I don't know one member of Congress who disagrees. In the pursuit of national security, Congress must make reforms to ensure the FBI, Department of Justice and other law enforcement officials have additional tools to prevent terrorists from gaining access to any firearm regardless of whether it's a small handgun or a firearm with even more capability to inflict injury and death. We must find common ground to pass legislation that keeps explosives and firearms out of the hands of suspected terrorists, while protecting the due process rights of Americans. That is why last December, I introduced the Protect America Act (H.R. 4237), which will prevent terrorists from being able to purchase firearms or explosives. By demonstrating probable cause that the purchaser is committing or will commit an act of terror, the transfer can be stopped. The transferee will have the right to notice, hearing and counsel. Additionally, my bill would require the Department of Justice to review and verify the Terrorist Watch-list and No-fly list to remove erroneous entries. In today’s world, it is so important that we do everything that we can to keep Americans safe. Preventing terrorists from gaining access to firearms and explosives must be a top priority for Congress. Instead of dividing America, my colleagues must confront the reality of radical Islam and take the necessary steps towards protecting our homeland by supporting my bill. Had my bill been enacted into law, and the federal government had listed the Orlando shooter as a terrorist threat, then the federal government would have been able to prevent any of the lawful firearm purchases that took place in this case. I will continue to push for the passage of my Protect America Act, so that we can keep firearms and explosives out of the hands of terrorists. Protecting America’s security at home and abroad remains one of my highest priorities in Congress. Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, and Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade.
06.24.2016	Washington, DC – On Thursday, June 23, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with Gregory McGauvran, first place winner of the Congressional Art Competition for New York’s First Congressional District. Gregory is a student at Longwood High School. The House of Representatives hosts a nation-wide high school art competition every spring to raise awareness of the importance of art programs in our schools, and to recognize and celebrate the creativity and diversity of our art students. The winning artwork for each congressional district is displayed in the United States Capitol for one year. Gregory McGauvran and a guest received a flight to Washington, DC to see his artwork in the Capitol building courtesy of Southwest Airlines. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with Gregory on the Speaker’s Balcony overlooking the National Mall after they attended the Congressional Art Competition reception for all first place winners across the country.
06.24.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the Long Island Sound Caucus, announced that the caucus secured $10 million in funding for the Long Island Sound program in the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2017 (H.R. 5538). This legislation passed out of committee on June 21, 2016, and is expected to come to the House floor this year. “As a member of the Long Island Sound Caucus, working with my House colleagues from both sides of the aisle, we were able to secure $10 million in funding for the Long Island Sound program in this year’s Interior and Environment Appropriations bill; a $6 million increase in funding from last year, and a $7 million increase in funding from President Obama’s proposed budget that would have cut funding for the Sound by 27%,” said Congressman Zeldin. “The Long Island Sound, a cultural and natural treasure, provides our community with a diverse ecosystem with more than 170 species of fish, over 1,200 invertebrates and many different species of migratory birds. The Sound is also essential to the everyday economy and livelihood of millions of Long Islanders. Safeguarding our environment and ensuring that the Sound is protected from pollution, overdevelopment, and other issues that harm its health, must be a top priority. I urge the House to swiftly pass this important legislation to ensure our waterways are preserved for generations to come.” Earlier this week, Congressman Zeldin released an op-ed highlighting his work to improve water quality on Long Island. You can read it here.
06.23.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, introduced on December 11, 2015, the Protect America Act (H.R. 4237) in order to prevent terrorists from purchasing firearms or explosives while protecting the due process rights of law abiding citizens. Rep. Zeldin released the following statement this afternoon: The Protect America Act (H.R. 4237): "The Protect America Act, H.R. 4237, will help prevent terrorists from purchasing firearms or explosives while protecting the due process rights of law abiding citizens. Here are five key questions and answers addressing why Congress should pass the Protect America Act: Should terrorists be allowed to purchase firearms or explosives? Absolutely not. Should there be due process protections for law abiding citizens wrongfully placed on the terrorism watch list? Yes and it is required Constitutionally. Should the burden be on the government to demonstrate probable cause to justify denying the purchase or should the burden be on the purchaser to demonstrate that there isn't probable cause to justify denying the purchase? As required Constitutionally, the burden should be on the government to demonstrate probable cause to justify denying the purchase beyond the initial 72 hours. Additionally, citizens deserve their right to notice, counsel and a hearing related to the presentation of this evidence justifying the denial of the purchase. Should the Department of Justice and Federal Bureau of Investigations have the authority to let the transaction go through to protect an investigation? Yes. Should the terrorism watch list be thoroughly reviewed in order to remove all erroneous entries? Yes. The Protect America Act addresses every one of these critically important points and will help keep Americans safe." The Orlando Terrorist Attack: "The handgun and Sig Sauer rifle used in this terrorist attack did not march itself into the nightclub and discharge itself. There was a shooter who was a radicalized Islamic terrorist pledging allegiance to ISIS, who violently hated the LGBT community and yelled "Allahu Akbar" while killing 49 innocent Americans. There is a whole lot more going on here beyond the gun control debate and attempts to narrow this issue so glaringly is alienating the rest of our country who understand the bigger picture." Congressman Zeldin's Protect America can be read here.
06.23.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, today sent a letter to Dr. David Shulkin, Under Secretary of Health at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), requesting an update on the broken cooling and ventilation system at the Northport VA. The operating rooms were closed in February of 2016 due to issues with an outdated HVAC system. As of today, only 3 of the 5 operating rooms are now being used and only with a temporary solution. In Congressman Zeldin’s letter to the VA, he requested information on this issue and other issues at the Northport VA. You can view a copy of the letter here: 6_22_16_Rep. Zeldin letter to Dr. Shulkin.pdf
06.22.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement in response to the Democrats' continuing publicity stunt on the floor of the House of Representatives today: "Democrats once again are completely shutting down the appropriations process in Congress. This time, Congressional Democrats are trying out the tactic of sitting on the carpet of the House floor, blocking the Fiscal Year 2017 Financial Services Appropriations bill. Much to the chagrin of the Democrat politicians, a gun didn't march on its own into the Orlando nightclub a week and a half ago and discharge itself. You cannot eliminate a threat you are not willing to identify. The shooter was a radicalized Islamic terrorist pledging allegiance to ISIS, chanting "Allahu Akbar." Every year, when there are just a few hours to go before the end of the fiscal year, Congressional Democrats and the President start pushing a narrative that the government will run out of funding at midnight and its all the Republican Party's fault. Today is the perfect lesson as to how we get to that point at the end of the fiscal year. This week, the House is supposed to pass the FY 2017 Financial Services Appropriations bill, and instead there is total gridlock with the House unable to conduct any business, because of House Democrats who want to change the narrative of what happened in Orlando and don't want to address the real threat of terrorism. The Democrats are dividing America when we all should be uniting against radical Islam. Radical Islam is at war with the United States, but the President and Congressional Democrats are not yet at war with radical Islam. While these Democrats are sabotaging the appropriations process on the House floor, they should use their extra time there to read a constitution, cosponsor my Protect America Act, and work on proposals that keep Americans safe without stripping away rights from law abiding citizens with flawed solutions.”
06.21.2016	Washington, D.C – On Tuesday, June 21, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, joined with Long Island and New York City animal rights and advocacy groups to condemn the Yulin Dog Meat Festival, where over 10,000 dogs are captured and slaughtered each year in Yulin, China. During this horrific practice, thousands of dogs are beaten, tortured and mistreated before being slaughtered. Those who participate in the event believe that the animals who die during the cooking process produce the most tender meat, and as a result, many animals are viciously tortured before being boiled alive. Many of these dogs are stolen pets, still wearing their collars when they reach the slaughterhouses. Congressman Zeldin, joined by Global Strays of Manhattan, Suffolk County SPCA, Southampton Animal Shelter, and other advocacy groups across the region, called for passage of House Resolution 752, a resolution Congressman Zeldin cosponsors, that condemns the dog meat festival in Yulin, China, and urges China to end the dog meat trade. The resolution, which was introduced on May 25, 2016, has strong bipartisan support with over 50 cosponsors in the House. During the event, Congressman Zeldin spoke about his commitment to the humane treatment of all animals, and the need for Congress to act quickly to pass this resolution to condemn the animal cruelty and abuse that takes place during the festival. Also in attendance were rescue dogs in purple ribbons; a symbol of the anti-animal abuse movement. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above speaking during the event with animal rights groups and rescue dogs.
06.20.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement today in response to the Department of Justice’s decision to censor Islamic terror references from the Orlando shooter's 911 call transcript: “At the heart of the Orlando massacre is a terrorist who pledged allegiance to ISIS and radical Islam while violently targeting LGBT Americans. Censoring the terrorist's 911 transcript will not change the reality that radical Islam is at war with the United States even though the President isn't yet at war with radical Islam. Trying to change the narrative and acting naive and dishonest about the reality of this attack will only result in a growing threat of terrorism within our own borders. You cannot eliminate a threat that you are not willing to identify. The Obama administration should release the full, uncensored transcript.”
06.20.2016	On the East End of Long Island, we have been blessed with an abundance of natural resources that are important to our life and culture. Water quality, specifically, requires a renewed focus and commitment by Long Islanders. Water quality on Long Island has suffered severely from issues such as pollution, overdevelopment and various critical remaining infrastructure needs. Our congressional district is unique in many ways, including the fact that it is almost completely surrounded by water. In Congress, I am a member of the Long Island Sound Caucus. Fortunately, on a bipartisan basis, I was able to successfully reverse a proposed 22% cut in funding for the Long Island Sound that was proposed by the President. Additionally, working with Congressman Steve Israel (D-NY), we joined together to introduce bipartisan legislation in the House, the Long Island Sound Restoration and Stewardship Act (H.R.2930). This important bill would ensure the Sound receives the resources needed by authorizing $65 million in funding per year through 2020 for a water quality and shore restoration program. To further protect the Sound, I have continued to oppose the misguided plan to dump Connecticut’s dredged waste into this critical waterway. The Long Island Sound should not be a dumping ground for any questionable waste dredged out of Connecticut rivers, which is why I support phasing out all open water disposal of dredged waste into the Sound. Last month, Congress secured a new law that authorizes $26.5 million in funding for the National Estuary Program, which includes two nationally recognized estuaries on Long Island: the Long Island Sound and Peconic Estuary. This funding not only helps address the urgent and challenging issues related to nitrogen, harmful algae blooms, and flooding or wetland loss, but also supports other local conservation projects to restore local beaches and protect wildlife. I’ve also been advocating in Congress for more of a focus on the Great South Bay because it's an economically and ecologically critical body of water facing similar issues. It’s important that this waterway is properly maintained and not forgotten. There is also a need to make important reforms to ensure the highest quality of drinking water for Long Islanders. Working with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle, Congress passed the Safe Drinking Water Act Compliance and Awareness Act (H.R.4470). This legislation, which passed with overwhelming bipartisan support, would put in place a procedure to notify residents if concentrations of lead in drinking water are above federal requirements. It would also create a strategic plan for communities nationwide to prevent any future drinking water crisis, such as the one in Flint, Michigan. I have also been working to advance legislation that would provide funding to upgrade water infrastructure on Long Island. The House should act immediately to pass the Sustainable Water Infrastructure Investment Act (H.R. 499), bipartisan legislation that I cosponsor, which would provide municipalities with access to new streams of financing to rebuild critical water infrastructure for high quality drinking water and sewage treatment. To protect one of Long Island’s most critical natural resources, I introduced legislation, HR 1887, that would prevent the sale of Plum Island by the federal government to the highest bidder. My bill, which passed the House with strong bipartisan support, would ensure that Plum Island is protected for generations to come. With House passage of this bill, it’s now important that New York’s two United States Senators, Chuck Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand, act quickly to bring this important bill to the Senate floor to pursue a better direction for Plum Island that would allow for continued research, public access and permanent preservation. Late last year, Congress passed legislation, the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act (H.R. 2029), which successfully saved the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) after the previous Congress had allowed this program to lapse. This important legislation provided critical funding for our Long Island waterways, while also providing funding for municipalities through LWCF grant programs. Through grants targeted at the local level, LWCF funding will be used to save beaches, marshes, and streams that keep Long Island water safe and clean, and includes funding for 75 parks in Suffolk County alone. By passing this legislation, Congress also established a permanent tax deduction for conservation easements. This important tax credit will help preserve local land, while giving more certainty to Long Island conservationists on the East End as they strive to protect our water and overall environment. There is much more work still ahead to safeguard our environment and improve our water quality, and as your Congressman, I will continue to help lead this effort for Long Island. Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, is also a member of the Long Island Sound Caucus and the Congressional Shellfish Caucus in the House of Representatives.
06.20.2016	Mattituck, NY – On Saturday, June 18, 2016, and Sunday, June 19, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) and his family attended the 62nd Annual Strawberry Festival, which was hosted by the Mattituck Lions Club. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with his wife, Diana, and their identical twin daughters, Mikayla and Arianna.
06.16.2016	CIA Director Says This AM "Our Efforts Have Not Reduced the Group's (ISIS) Terrorism Capability and Global Reach" We Are Obviously Not "Firing On All Cylinders" as President Claimed Tuesday Rep. Zeldin Calls on President to Stop Misleading American Public on Reality of Radical Islam, Which is Much More Dangerous Than What POTUS Calls a "Political Distraction" Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, today released the following statement after CIA Director, John Brennan, said this morning about ISIS, "our efforts have not reduced the group's terrorism capability and global reach": "President Obama, with the help of his taxpayer funded fiction writer, is again insulting the collective intelligence of an entire nation that he was elected to lead. This shouldn't be handled as a political game or a work of fiction. We face a dangerous reality, and as the CIA Director said this morning, "our efforts have not reduced the group's (ISIS) terrorism capability and global reach." Meanwhile, the President continues attempting to pull the wool over the eyes of our entire country, claiming just this past Tuesday, "the campaign is firing on all cylinders." Someone at the White House should define "campaign" to the American public so that the country can make sense of what this President is even talking about. The President actually said that identifying the threat of radical Islam is a "political distraction." If the President does not confront what he calls a "political distraction" then there will be more attacks like Orlando again within our borders. You cannot eliminate a threat you are not willing to identify. You cannot eliminate a threat you dismiss as a political distraction. You also cannot eliminate a threat when your own CIA Director is telling the American public that your strategy isn't reducing ISIS' terrorism capability and global reach. Radical Islam is at war with the United States of America, but the President isn't yet at war with Radical Islam."
06.15.2016	Washington, DC – During a House Veterans Affairs Subcommittee hearing today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, questioned Ms. Beth McCoy, Deputy Undersecretary for Field Operations at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), regarding the Department’s handling of a NY-1 constituent’s application with the VA for Aid and Attendance. Congressman Zeldin’s constituent, John Mitchell, served in the Army for over 20 years, including over 16 years in Special Operations. Mr. Mitchell was injured during service after suffering multiple concussions as a result of circumstances such as an accident during a jump as a paratrooper and a severe automobile accident in a military vehicle. As a result of these incidents, Mr. Mitchell now suffers from Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI). Mr. Mitchell, who is 100% service connected disabled, applied for special monthly compensation, which is VA compensation that is given to veterans suffering from TBI. Even though information was provided to the VA from Mr. Mitchell’s physician, the VA had not considered this information while making their determination to deny him additional benefits. The VA stated that Mr. Mitchell is not entitled to these services because his injuries are “disabilities that have not been determined to be related to his military service.” During the hearing, entitled “Investigating VA’s Management of Veterans’ Paper Records”, Congressman Zeldin questioned Ms. McCoy about the handling of Mr. Mitchell’s case and Ms. McCoy confirmed that she was aware of the issue. Shockingly, Ms. McCoy wasn’t even willing to acknowledge that Mr. Mitchell, a Vietnam Veteran of the United States Military, had even served in uniform. You can watch the video here. As a result, Congressman Zeldin called on VA Secretary Robert McDonald to publically apologize for today’s Subcommittee remarks of a top VA executive and publicly thank this Vietnam Veteran for his service to our country.
06.15.2016	Southampton, NY — Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, announced today that through his office the proper permit was obtained to open the cut at Mecox Bay in Southampton, NY. This emergency authorization provides Southampton Town Trustees with the permit necessary to open the cut to Mecox Bay while they renew a 10-year dredging permit that will allow the Town to maintain the opening over a longer period of time. The work is scheduled to begin tomorrow, Thursday, June 16, 2016. Congressman Zeldin said, “Working closely with the Southampton Town Trustees, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC), U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS), my office was able to secure the approval of an emergency authorization to allow Southampton Town to open the cut at Mecox Bay while the town continues the process to renew its 10-year dredge permit. The emergency authorization provides the permit needed to conduct this timely and important project that will protect the fish and wildlife in Mecox Bay, while ensuring the health and safety of Southampton residents.” Scott M. Horowitz, Secretary and Treasurer of the Southampton Town Board of Trustees, said, “I would like to thank Congressman Lee Zeldin for assisting the Southampton Town trustees receive an emergency permit to open the cut at Mecox bay, so the water level can be lowered and the health of the ecosystem of the bay remain in a state that would support the many shellfish and fin fish that inhabit the bay. In addition, this action will alleviate the flooding of many of the areas basements and septic systems, which if left unchecked would create a health and safety issue. Many agencies need to be coordinated in order to be successful under the current circumstances, since this is the prime season for the nesting of some colonial birds such as the piping plover and least tern. The Southampton Town Trustees have great respect for all of the resources and administer an extensive endangered species program. The Trustees worked hard with all the agencies, including coordination assistance of our local congressman.”
06.13.2016	Nesconset, NY — On Saturday, June 11, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended an Eagle Court of Honor ceremony for Matthew Joseph Drago, Tyler Anthony Ferrara and Christopher Daniel Rinaldo of Troop 349 at the Cleary School for the Deaf, located in Nesconset, NY.
06.13.2016	Center Moriches, NY — On Saturday, June 11, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the 3rd Annual Veteran & Family Day of Wellness hosted by the Joseph P. Dwyer Veterans Peer Support Project, also known as the “Dwyer Program”. The event featured health and wellness activities for veterans and their families who are dealing with post-service transition issues. In 2012, while serving in the NYS Senate, Congressman Zeldin created the Dwyer Program, a peer-to-peer support program for veterans suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI). Earlier this year, Congressman Zeldin introduced legislation in Congress to expand the Dwyer Program to the national level (H.R. 4513).
06.13.2016	Brookhaven, NY — On Saturday, June 11, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted his annual Service Academy Information Day at Brookhaven Town Hall for High School juniors and seniors who are interested in attending a Service Academy after graduation. At the event, prospective students and their families were given the opportunity to speak with representatives from each of the five service academies and learn more about Congressman Zeldin’s nomination application process. Members of Congress may nominate candidates for appointment to four of the five U.S. service academies: U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY; U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD; U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO; and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY. The fifth service academy, U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA), New London, CT, does not require a congressional nomination for appointment. For more information on the nomination process, interested students can visit Congressman Zeldin’s website at zeldin.house.gov. Students can also contact the Congressman’s office at (631) 289-1097.
06.13.2016	As your member of Congress, I have been working hard to pursue my New Era of American Strength agenda to protect America’s security at home and abroad, help grow our economy, support our veterans and first responders, improve the quality of education, repair our nation’s infrastructure, improve healthcare in America, and safeguard our environment. Working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in the House and Senate, I have been able to secure a number of important victories for our district. Just a few include getting a five year, fully-funded transportation bill, including my Safe Bridges Act, passed and signed into law. My proposal to allow states to opt-out of Common Core without penalty from the federal government was also passed and signed into law. Working with Peconic Bay Medical Center, I was able to open a new veterans health care clinic in Manorville. I also helped lead the effort to permanently re-authorize the Zadroga Act for our 9/11 first responders and stop the Medical Device Tax for 2 years. Furthermore, my office was able to successfully resolve over 3,000 cases in favor of NY-1 constituents. While I am very proud of the victories I have been able to secure thus far for our Congressional District, I’ve introduced a number of other bills that have now passed the House. The Senate must now act to pass all of these bills listed below: The Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act (H.R. 4314) – With the rise of terrorism across the world, the need for an improved security clearance process and increased border security has become even more apparent. The free movement of those who would commit horrific attacks of terror is one of the greatest threats to America’s safety, both at home and abroad. My bipartisan bill, H.R. 4314, would help close gaps in foreign borders by establishing international security standards, while also guaranteeing that U.S. resources are utilized in the most efficient way possible in the areas where they are needed most. H.R. 4314 would also put in place a monitoring system to screen for infectious diseases abroad, like Zika, in order to contain and prevent any potential outbreaks. Three Bills for Our Nation’s Veterans (H.R. 2460, H.R. 1569, H.R. 1187) – One of my greatest priorities is ensuring that the veterans of our Armed Forces receive the treatment and benefits that they have earned and deserve. In Congress, I’ve introduced several pieces of legislation to provide for our heroes, including H.R. 2460, which would provide Adult Day Health Care for disabled veterans at no cost, H.R. 1569, to require the VA to pay accrued benefits to the estate of deceased veterans, and H.R. 1187, to eliminate the loan limit that the VA can guarantee for a veteran. Passing these bills, all of which have received enormous support from Democrats and Republicans alike, are essential to increase our veteran’s care and assistance. Saving Plum Island (H.R. 1887) – Plum Island is a critical natural, cultural and historical treasure that has been cherished by our local community since before the 1700s. Rather than allow the federal government to sell the island to the highest bidder, H.R. 1887 would safeguard the island from development to preserve this beautiful land, almost all of which is completely undeveloped. Additionally, we can ensure good paying research jobs are on the island, while allowing public access for more Long Islanders and others to experience this great land that is right in our own backyard. Allowing Striped Bass Fishing Off the Coast of Montauk (H.R. 3070) – Just this month, H.R. 3070, which is necessary to permit striped bass fishing off the coast of Montauk, passed the House with unanimous bipartisan support. My bill would clarify federal laws governing the management of the striped bass fishery in the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) between Montauk, New York, and Block Island, Rhode Island. Fishermen are desperately pleading for common sense relief and the EEZ Transit Zone Clarification Act is just one way that Congress can help. The Senate should act quickly on these essential pieces of legislation. As your Congressman, I will continue doing everything in my power to bring home more victories for Long Island through my New Era of American Strength agenda. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York. Rep. Zeldin serves on the House Foreign Affairs, Veterans’ Affairs and Transportation and Infrastructure Committees.
06.12.2016	Patchogue, NY —Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement in response to the deadly mass shooting that occurred early this morning in Orlando, Florida, which police have classified as a terror incident: “Early this morning in Orlando, Florida, in the deadliest mass shooting in our nation’s history, at least 50 people lost their lives and an additional 53 people were wounded. This barbaric terror attack against innocent Americans is truly devastating and our entire country mourns this senseless loss of life. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims, their families and the greater Orlando community. While the investigation is ongoing, and details are still emerging, we are too often reminded that while we frequently hear and read about terrorist attacks abroad, we have a very real, ongoing homeland security threat within our own borders. We, as a country, must remain ever vigilant.”
06.10.2016	Patchogue, NY – On May 23, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, met in his Patchogue office with Taiwan Ambassador Lily L.W. Hsu, the first Taiwan female Ambassador in New York. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with Ambassador Hsu.
06.10.2016	Washington, DC – On Tuesday, June 7, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin’s (R, NY-1) EEZ Transit Zone Clarification Act (HR 3070) unanimously passed the House of Representatives with bipartisan support. You can watch passage of the bill here. The Congressman’s bill, which passed the House Natural Resources Committee with unanimous support on Wednesday, March 15, 2016, would clarify federal laws governing the management of the striped bass fishery in the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) between Montauk, New York, and Block Island, Rhode Island, permitting striped bass fishing in these waters. Between New York State waters, which end three miles off of Montauk Point, New York, and the Rhode Island boundary, which begins three miles off of Block Island, there is a small area of federally controlled water that is considered part of the EEZ. The EEZ, which extends up to 200 miles from the coast, are waters patrolled by the Coast Guard, where the United States has exclusive jurisdiction over fisheries and other natural resources. Striped bass fishing has been banned in the EEZ since 1990. Congressman Zeldin’s EEZ Transit Zone Clarification Act would authorize the Secretary of Commerce to open this area to striped bass fishing. On Tuesday, February 2, 2016, the House Natural Resources Committee hosted a hearing on the bill in Congress. Congressman Zeldin also co-hosted a House Natural Resources Committee field hearing in Riverhead, NY, with Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT). The hearing, which was titled, “Restoring Atlantic Fisheries and Protecting the Regional Seafood Economy,” was held on December 7, 2015 to discuss important local fishing issues. Congressman Zeldin’s EEZ Transit Zone Clarification Act was discussed and Chairman Bishop was able to hear first-hand the concerns of those on Long Island who rely upon fishing as an occupation and way of life. Congressman Zeldin said, “Long Island fishermen are faced with many issues; one of the most pressing is the urgent need to clarify the federal regulations regarding striped bass fishing in the small area of federally controlled waters between Montauk Point and Block Island. Long Island striped bass fishermen have lost 60% of their traditional fishing grounds due to federal restrictions that my bill would reform. Additionally, the shift in jurisdiction can mean the difference between a nice day on the water and committing a federal offense. Fishing is an important industry on Long Island, but it’s getting more and more difficult for business owners to survive. Fishermen are desperately pleading for common sense relief and the EEZ Transit Zone Clarification Act is just one way that Congress can help. I am excited to see this bill pass the House with such strong bipartisan support. I will continue working to get this bill signed into law.”
06.09.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement today in opposition to the “Medicare Drug Experiment”. The Medicare Drug Experiment is a term that is used to refer to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services’ (CMS) proposed Part B Drug Payment Model. On March 8, 2016, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) released a proposed rule that would modify the reimbursement rate for Medicare Part B drugs, which would cut many Medicare drug reimbursements, significantly limiting seniors’ access to medication and options of healthcare. In addition to cutting drug reimbursement rates, this ruling would also limit a patient’s access to any new drugs that the government deems “too expensive”. Congressman Zeldin said, “As a result of the latest proposed rule by CMS, Long Island’s most vulnerable seniors are at risk of losing access to healthcare options and life-altering or life-saving medications. This ruling, done without Congressional input and proposed without even speaking with experts or stakeholders in the healthcare industry, would have a detrimental effect on seniors, which is why I am urging CMS to permanently withdraw their proposal. Adopting a policy shift such as this robs seniors of an individualized approach to treatment for cancer, dialysis and other medications delivered intravenously. Even worse, this change substitutes the patient and physician relationship in favor of treatment options determined by faceless Washington bureaucrats. In the 21st century, our seniors deserve more access to critical life-saving treatments, not reduced options that diminish the quality of life for affected individuals.” On May 2, 2016, Congressman Zeldin joined with 242 members of Congress to send a joint letter to CMS Acting Administrator Andy Slavitt demanding the permanent withdrawal of the proposed Medicare Drug Experiment. You can view a copy of the letter here: Medicare Part B Demo Letter.pdf
06.08.2016	Washington, DC – On June 8, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and his gallery guest, Sachin Patnaik, a High School junior at Ward Melville High School, attended Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to a Joint Session of Congress. The Congressman and Sachin, pictured above at the U.S. Capitol, also attended a small private reception with the Prime Minister after his address.
06.08.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, released the following statement in response to the deadly terrorist shooting that occurred today in Tel Aviv, Israel: “My thoughts and prayers are with the victims, their families, and all Israelis in the wake of the deadly terrorist shooting in Tel Aviv. The hate and violence that is targeted at innocent Israelis is absolutely tragic. Violent terrorist attacks like this one do nothing but hinder any chance of peace in the Middle East. Israel is a strategic partner and democratic ally of the United States and America should stand strong shoulder to shoulder with Israel in response. As a nation, we must always do everything that we can to stop the violence and work towards a peaceful solution to bring peace to the Middle East. An attack on Israel is an attack on the United States.”
06.08.2016	Patchogue, NY — On Saturday, June 4, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the ribbon cutting ceremony for Suffolk Beer, a beer distributer that offers a wide variety of local craft beer choices. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, center, with the owners of Suffolk Beer, Pinky Patel, left, and Nilesh Patel, right.
06.06.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, announced today that Sachin Patnaik, a High School junior at Ward Melville High School will be his gallery guest for Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to a Joint Session of Congress this Wednesday, June 8, 2016. The Congressman also secured the very special opportunity for Sachin to meet the Indian Prime Minister following the address. Congressman Zeldin said, “I am excited to announce Sachin Patnaik as my guest for the Prime Minister of India’s address before a Joint Session of Congress. Sachin is top of his class at Ward Melville and involved in a number of extracurricular activities, including Science Olympia, French & Art National Honor Societies, the school’s literary magazine, and Future Business Leaders of America. In addition to a gallery ticket, Sachin will also get to meet directly with Prime Minister Modi that day. I look forward to witnessing the address and meeting the Prime Minister with Sachin.”
06.06.2016	Farmingville, NY – On Friday, June 3, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Farmingville VFW Post 400 renaming ceremony. The Post was renamed “The Sgt. Jason Santora & Staff Sgt. Louis Bonacasa Memorial Post 400 Veterans of Foreign Wars” after two local heroes: Sergeant Jason Santora of Farmingville, who lost his life in Iraq on April 23, 2010, and Staff Sergeant Louis Bonacasa of Coram, who was fatally injured during a suicide bombing near Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan on December 21, 2015. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with local elected officials, members of the Post and the families of Sgt. Santora and Staff Sgt. Bonacasa.
06.06.2016	Shirley, NY — On Saturday, June 4, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Fifth Annual Tri-Hamlet Day Celebration, a day to celebrate the culture and history of Mastic, Mastic Beach and Shirley. The Congressman is pictured above with Brookhaven Town Councilman Dan Panico and members of the Tri-Hamlet community.
06.06.2016	Living out one’s golden years to the max can come with its share of challenges, especially as it relates to healthcare, which is why fighting for our seniors and improving their quality of care must always be a top priority in America. Whether at meetings in my Long Island office, across the district at my mobile office hours, or at various other events in Suffolk, I have met with seniors struggling with balancing health challenges and a fixed income. Many cite a lack of healthcare options and the difficulty in gaining access to quality and affordable healthcare as a result of Obamacare. There are also serious concerns over the solvency of Social Security and Medicare, which many seniors rely on for both financial and healthcare security. As health challenges arise, and seniors are budgeting based on a fixed income, we should do everything that we can to ensure that those who need medical care and attention are able to access quality care at an affordable price without having to jump through hoops. They also should be assured that the programs and benefits they rely on will always be there for them. Obamacare has significantly impacted our seniors and their access to quality and affordable care. I frequently hear concerns about lost doctors, cancelled policies, and higher premiums and deductibles. Earlier this year, Congress passed the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act, which would repeal many of the flawed major provisions under Obamacare over a period of two years, specifically many of the harmful mandates and taxes, so that we can increase seniors’ access, without compromising quality of care or efficiency. It is important to improve the quality of health care in our country for our nation’s seniors. Congress has also taken action to improve Medicare. Over the past year, the House passed a number of bills to strengthen Medicare, including the Protecting Seniors’ Access to Medicare Act, the Medicare Beneficiary Preservation of Choice Act, and the Medicare Advantage Enrollment bill; all proposals that would protect and preserve Medicare for the seniors who rely on it, as well as restore and expand the Medicare open enrollment period. The House also took action and made significant reforms to Social Security and Medicare, saving millions of seniors from significantly increased healthcare costs. Working in a bipartisan fashion, Congress was able to stave off a massive premium hike for seniors who utilize Medicare Part B. Without this action, approximately 8 million seniors across the country would have been subject to a 52% premium hike for Medicare Part B. In a bipartisan effort, action was taken to prevent a 20% across the board cut to social security disability benefits. Moreover, working across the aisle with my colleagues in the House, we were able to repeal the Sustainable Growth Rate formula, also known as the “Doc Fix,” to prevent a 20% cut to Medicare. This action alone has been seen as the most significant Medicare reform that has taken place in years. Without this legislation, which is now law, many doctors would have simply stopped accepting new Medicare patients, or even cease to accept Medicare all together. Congress has also been committed to passing legislation and securing funding to expand seniors’ access to the most innovative technologies and treatments so that we can diagnose and treat diseases as early as possible. Last year, the House passed the 21st Century Cures Act, bipartisan legislation that I cosponsor in Congress to improve and modernize our nation’s healthcare. This legislation would accelerate the process for scientific advancement, while providing desperately needed research funding so that we can provide the next generation of cures. It is our duty as Americans to always protect and improve the quality of life and care for our nation’s seniors. If assistance is ever needed with a federal issue or any questions exist about Social Security or Medicare, the phone number at my Long Island office is (631) 289-1097. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York.
06.03.2016	Westhampton, NY – On Friday, June 3, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited the 106th Air Rescue Wing in Westhampton. The Congressman toured the facility and met with the new Commander, Colonel Michael Bank Jr. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above touring the HC-130 King aircraft with the 106th Operations Group Commander, Colonel Michael Shanahan.
06.03.2016	Patchogue, NY –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, sent a letter to Colonel David A. Caldwell at the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers regarding the draft General Reevaluation Report (GRR), which determines what projects will be included in the remainder of the Fire Island to Montauk Point (FIMP) Project. In the letter, Congressman Zeldin requested a copy of the draft GRR, which covers over 75 miles of coast line; 80% of which is in the First Congressional District of New York. The Congressman also requested a clear commitment to a final release date for the draft GRR, as well as a public comment period of at least 90 days with multiple public hearings spread throughout the First Congressional District. A copy of the letter can be found here: 6_2_16 Zeldin letter to Army Corps.pdf In October of 2015, Congressman Zeldin sent a letter to Colonel Caldwell outlining specific local priorities that he requested to be included in the final draft of the GRR. Click here to read the letter.
06.03.2016	**MEDIA ADVISORY** **Saturday, June 11, 2016** **Rep. Lee Zeldin to Host Service Academy Information Day** What: Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) will be hosting his annual Service Academy Information Day for High School juniors and seniors who are interested in attending a Service Academy after graduation. At the event, prospective students and their families will be given the opportunity to speak with representatives from each of the five service academies and learn more about Congressman Zeldin’s nomination application process. Members of Congress may nominate candidates for appointment to four of the five U.S. service academies: U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY; U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD; U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO; and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY. The fifth service academy, U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA), New London, CT, does not require a congressional nomination for appointment. When: Saturday, June 11, 2016, from 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM Where: Brookhaven Town Hall, 1 Independence Hill, Farmingville, NY 11738 Who: Congressman Lee Zeldin; representatives from the U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY; U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD; U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO; U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY, U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA), New London, CT; and prospective students and their families. All members of the public and press are invited to attend.
06.02.2016	Washington, DC –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, released the following statement in response to a World Health Organization (WHO) resolution that calls for an investigation into alleged mental, physical and environmental health rights abuses by Israel: “The WHO resolution calling for an investigation into Israel as a violator of “mental, physical and environmental health” rights abuses is destructive and irresponsible. The UN and its affiliated agencies have a long history of singling out Israel. In fact, Israel was the only country that was singled out; the only resolution that focused on a specific country. In a letter last week to WHO Director-General Dr. Margaret Chan, Israel’s Yesh Atid Party leader, Yair Lapid, noted that this resolution is “a modern manifestation of anti-Semitism.” Meanwhile, the United Nations refuses to appropriately address the oppression and human rights abuses levied in Gaza every day by Hamas. It also fails to recognize Israel’s work in treating injured Syrians who are taken to hospitals and are given first rate medical care at no expense. The UN will continue to lose its credibility if it continues to unfairly single out Israel while taking a blind eye to the real issues elsewhere in the Middle East and around the world.”
05.30.2016	Riverhead, NY – On Friday, May 27, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) led the Suffolk County Sheriff Memorial as the Master of Ceremonies. The Congressman, pictured above, paid his respects during the service to deceased Suffolk County Corrections Officers and Deputy Sheriffs.
05.30.2016	Centereach, NY – On Sunday, May 29, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in Centereach’s Annual Memorial Day Parade hosted by VFW Post 4927. The Congressman is pictured above before the parade with the ladies auxiliary of VFW Post 4927.
05.30.2016	Memorial Day is a day of remembrance, appreciation, and honor; when our nation gathers together to reflect and pay tribute to all of America’s fallen heroes. Since our nation’s founding, America has been blessed with brave men and women who have answered the call to serve; many of whom have made the ultimate sacrifice in order to protect and defend the freedom that we cherish but too often take for granted. In times of war, it is these heroes who stood in defense of the United States, her interests, and the values of freedom and liberty. Their courage, strength and commitment to our country are inspiring, and we should be forever grateful for their sacrifice. Not just on Memorial Day, but every day, we all should reflect on the incredible sacrifices of our military heroes who came before us, and those who are currently serving today. Their selfless deeds and through their courage and strength we have been able to enjoy times of peace at home in a world so prone to conflict. The United States stands as a pillar of justice, tolerance, and democracy against those who promote tyranny and fear. While it is imperative to give thanks on this day, it will never be able to match the actions and sacrifices of these truly courageous service men and women. We are so fortunate to live in the greatest country in the world, but we must always remember that freedom is never truly free. Memorial Day serves as a reminder of the human cost of liberty, paid out not only by our soldiers, but their families and friends as well. The wounds of war are far reaching, and it is the responsibility of all Americans to ensure the heroic deeds of our service men and women are never forgotten. As a nation, supporting our veterans and their families must always be one of our highest priorities. Cherishing our gold star families and their fallen loved ones should be the highest. Congressman Lee Zeldin, an Army veteran who continues to serve today as a Major in the Army Reserves, represents the First Congressional District of New York. In Congress, two of Representative Zeldin’s committee assignments are Veterans Affairs and Foreign Affairs.
05.26.2016	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, May 25, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with the eighth grade class from Center Moriches Middle School on the steps of the United States Capitol. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with the students. To schedule a tour of the U.S. Capitol, and other government buildings in the area, you can contact Congressman Zeldin’s Washington, DC office at (202) 225-3826, or you can visit his website at zeldin.house.gov.
05.25.2016	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, May 25, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, questioned Admiral Stephen D. Mull, Lead Coordinator for Iran Nuclear Implementation at the U.S. Department of State, during a House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing entitled “Iran Nuclear Deal Oversight: Implementation and its Consequences (Part II)”. The Congressman called on the White House to take a position on the Iran Sanctions Act, asked why there is no signature from the Iranians on the JCPOA, and questioned how the administration can vouch for a “historic verification and monitoring regime” without having read the verification and monitoring regime. You can watch the Congressman’s questioning here.
05.25.2016	Washington, DC – On Tuesday, May 24, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with the Oncology Nursing Society (ONS) in his Washington, DC office. Discussions included nursing education and preparedness, as well as ways that Congress can improve healthcare overall. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with ONS members.
05.24.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the Long Island Sound Caucus and Congressional Shellfish Caucus in the House of Representatives, announced that legislation he supported in the House of Representatives to reauthorize the National Estuary Program (H.R.944/S.1523) was signed into law by President Obama on Friday, May 20, 2016. The new law authorizes $26.5 million in funding for the National Estuary Program, which includes two nationally recognized estuaries on Long Island: the Long Island Sound and the Peconic Estuary. The funding will be used for water quality and wetlands restoration, as well as other local conservation projects to restore local beaches and protect wildlife. The bill ensures that funding will be prioritized to address urgent and challenging issues that threaten the ecological and economic well-being of coastal areas including nitrogen, harmful algae blooms, and flooding or wetland loss. Congressman Zeldin said, “On the East End of Long Island, we must be committed to safeguarding our environment and improving our water quality. Over the years, water quality on Long Island has suffered severely from issues such as pollution, overdevelopment and the dumping of dredged materials. This new law, which I was proud to support in the House, would ensure that Long Island’s estuaries receive the funding needed to improve and protect our waterways. There is much we can do to improve water quality on Long Island, and I will continue working in Congress to ensure our waterways are preserved for generations to come.” “The Peconic Estuary Program is grateful to Congressman Zeldin for his support of this important bill,” said Dr. Alison Branco, the program’s Director. “For nearly 30 years, the National Estuary Program has demonstrated that these locally- driven, non-regulatory programs can successfully protect Estuaries of National Significance, like the Peconic Estuary and Long Island Sound. We work with the community to craft and implement action plans to solve environmental problems at the watershed level to preserve the healthy, productive ecosystem that supports our coastal economy. With this renewed mandate from Congress, the Peconic Estuary Program looks forward to updating its Comprehensive Conservation and Management Plan and tackling the challenges facing our estuaries today and into the future.”
05.24.2016	Washington, DC –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, released the following statement today in response to reports that Northport VA’s operating rooms have been closed since February due to issues with an outdated HVAC system: “It is inexcusable that the Department of Veterans Affairs has not allocated the necessary resources to keep open the Operating Rooms at the Northport VA. What is a further insult to Long Island’s veterans is not only the fact that the VA never came to Congress asking for assistance, but also never brought it to the attention of Long Island’s Congressional Delegation at all. The funding is there. One doesn’t have to look any further than the Denver VA Hospital construction project operating nearly $1 billion over budget, utilizing what the VA refers to as an “artificial budget”, whatever in the world that means. Accountability is the dirtiest word of all to the Department. Just yesterday, VA Secretary Bob McDonald compared the wait time scandal to a visit to a Disney theme park. Problems have to be identified in order for solutions to be developed and achieved. Now that the New York Times and Newsday have uncovered this grossly incompetent development at the Northport VA, the Department needs to make this issue go away by fixing it, not burying its head in the sand. Our veterans have literally risked their lives in defense of our country, many paying the ultimate sacrifice. Long Island’s veterans not only deserve but are also desperately relying on this administration to step up its game. When the VA earns the reputation as the happiest place on earth, then it can resume its silly comparisons to fantasyland. In the meantime, fix what needs to be fixed and get these operating rooms back open immediately.”
05.23.2016	Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, just released the following statement regarding Secretary of Veterans Affairs Bob McDonald comparing the VA wait times to the lines at a Disney theme park: “Multiple USA Today reports last month detailed how Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) supervisors in several states instructed employees to falsify wait time lists. The VA continues to fail in adequately addressing this serious issue. Our veterans deserve to live in a reality filled with the standard of care they deserve. There needs to be accountability and a course correction to make sure that never happens again. This change needs to come from the leadership at the top. This morning, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs said the following about the wait time scandal: "When you got to Disney, do they measure the number of hours you wait in line? Or what's important? What's important is, what's your satisfaction with the experience?" I wonder what the families of the veterans who died on those wait lists would have to say about that absurd comparison to fantasy land, Mr. Secretary. The Secretary may want to consider a "fast pass" out of his role with the VA.”
05.23.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, announced today that legislation he introduced in Congress to expand care for disabled veterans (H.R. 2460) passed the House unanimously with strong bipartisan support. You can watch the House debate and vote here. Congressman Zeldin’s bill, H.R. 2460, would expand disabled veterans’ access to Adult Day Health Care; a daily program for disabled veterans who need extra assistance and special attention in their day to day lives. Service members who are 70% or more disabled from a service connected injury often require significant assistance from others in order to carry out basic everyday tasks. Many times the burden falls on family members of disabled veterans; some veterans may even need to reside in institutionalized facilities to receive the daily assistance of a trained medical professional. Both of these options can create financial and emotional hardships. One program that is currently available to help disabled veterans is Adult Day Health Care, which can be offered at State Veterans Homes across the United States. Adult Day Health Care programs provide disabled veterans and their families with a high quality alternative to nursing home care. However, the VA does not currently cover the cost of participation in this program at state veteran homes and the expense of the program is put directly on the veteran and their family, which significantly limits the number of veterans who can enroll. The program is also only currently offered at three facilities in the United States; one being the Long Island State Veterans Home in Stony Brook. H.R. 2460 would ensure that severely disabled veterans, those who are 70% or more service connected disabled, are able to receive Adult Day Health Care at no cost to them by defining the program as a reimbursable treatment option through the VA. The bill would also help expand Adult Day Health Care on Long Island and in states across the country. The bill, which passed the House Veterans Affairs Committee unanimously last week on May 18, 2016, has strong bipartisan support in Congress, with already over 50 cosponsors, including the entire Long Island Congressional Delegation. The bill also has received support from various Veteran Service Organizations (VSOs), including the American Legion, AMVETS and Disabled American Veterans (DAV). Congressman Zeldin said, “House passage of my bill to expand Adult Day Health Care for disabled veterans is a huge win for the veteran community. Despite various care options for veterans, their choices are often limited, and can come at a great expense. By increasing disabled veterans’ access to Adult Day Health Care programs, we can ensure that all veterans receive the best and most efficient outpatient services, which are tailored to their individual needs. Adult Day Health Care programs also allow disabled veterans to lead a much more fulfilling life by maintaining their independence and also keeping families together. My bill is just one more way that we can expand care for our veterans who have sacrificed so much for us. It must always be a top priority of Congress to ensure that all veterans receive the proper treatment and care they deserve after their selfless sacrifice for our country. I will continue working in Congress with my colleagues in the House and Senate, as well as with all of the supportive veterans groups, to get this bill through the Senate and signed into law before the end of the year.”
05.23.2016	If you have ever walked through a security check point at an airport convinced that you have numerous ideas on how to improve the screening system you are observing, odds are that your instincts are spot on. Why is the 80 year old granny in a wheelchair being harassed? Why is the U.S. military service member in uniform with a military ID and military orders having his or her toothpaste confiscated? Why does it seem like no one at the check point has been delegated with that awesome yet shockingly absent power of common sense? As the management and resource allocation issues rise that are plaguing the bureaucracy at the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), red flags are going up and sirens are going off with the peak travel season nearly upon us. Some airline passengers are waiting over two or three hours just to get through security! Long lines will only get longer if TSA doesn't pursue a course correction. The agency needs to escape its bubble and coordinate more with airport authorities and airlines to ensure staffing levels match peak travel times. A deficiency of common sense is resulting in an abundance of inefficiencies. When there is a long line and 4 out of 8 security lanes are being used, the TSA should open more security lanes. That is a predictable no brainer. TSA should also go easier on granny in the wheelchair and the service member in uniform, while also letting local well trained law enforcement take care of law enforcement duties, to free up more screeners to screen. The administration should also stop literally rewarding incompetence with cash bonuses. The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee recently hosted a hearing that included testimony about a top official receiving more than $90,000 in bonuses, despite an internal audit that showed that TSA screeners failed to detect investigators with fake weapons and bombs within the security line. The audit found that TSA screeners had failed to detect these weapons 95 percent of the time. There are also allegations that TSA employees who spoke up and reported problems were consequently reassigned to other airports. That is the polar opposite example of what accountability is supposed to look like. Airlines can also help the cause by knocking off the madness with the hidden baggage fees. The tricks may help fill seats on planes, but it is also causing a massive headache with passengers choosing to bring more of their belongings through security check points rather than checking in baggage at the ticket counter. The TSA cites issues with funding, but the agency has consistently received its requested level of funding from Congress on an annual basis. For fiscal year 2016, Congress even granted the TSA over $78 million above the agency’s request. This was an increase in funding from the prior year. Last year, the TSA actually returned $100 million to the U.S. Treasury in money they claimed wasn’t needed. No one wants to hear the TSA's excuses. Americans are just looking for a little more common sense and efficiency. Congressman Lee Zeldin, member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and Vice Chairman of the Subcommittee on Aviation, represents the First Congressional District of New York.
05.23.2016	Hauppauge, NY — On Saturday, May 21, 2016, Armed Forces Day, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke at the Suffolk County Annual Armed Forces Day Ceremony in Hauppauge, New York. The Congressman is pictured above during the ceremony
05.20.2016	Riverhead, NY – On Friday, May 20, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Long Island Hospitality and Leisure Association (LIHLA) Breakfast at Hotel Indigo in Riverhead. The Congressman, who addressed the group as a featured speaker, discussed different ways that government, businesses, and community groups can work together to better promote tourism on Long Island. Pictured above, from left to right, are: LIHLA President Ken Walles; Kathleen Cooney, President of Ginger Peachy Tours & Travels; Congressman Zeldin; Kristen Jarnagin, President of the Long Island Convention & Visitors Bureau; Fran Tabone, President of TASC; and Donald Raad, President of MSW Travel Group.
05.19.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, announced today that a legislative fix he proposed to a VA funding bill to ensure that veterans receive immediate assistance from a trained professional when they call the Veterans Crisis Line (VCL) passed the House of Representatives on May 19, 2016. Congressman Zeldin’s language was added to the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2017 (H.R. 4974), which passed 295 to 129. Congressman Zeldin’s effort, which he led with other members of Congress, was launched in March of 2016, following the release of a Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Office of Inspector General report that found that calls to the Veterans Crisis Line operated by the VA in 2014 were transferred to a backup call center voicemail system and never returned. The language proposed reads as follows, “The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure that the toll-free suicide hotline under section 1720F(h) of title 38, United States Code – (1) provides to individuals who contact the hotline immediate assistance from a trained professional; and (2) adheres to all requirements of the American Association of Suicidology.” The American Association of Suicidology standards mandate that crisis center responders “be available to answer a dedicated phone number 24 hours a day, 7 days a week." Currently a loophole allows for calls to be transferred to a backup center, which are allowed to place callers on hold and utilize voicemail. Passage of this bill, with Congressman Zeldin’s language, would close this loophole, requiring immediate assistance for any veteran who calls the VCL or a backup center. Congressman Zeldin said, “Reports that were recently released from the VA Office of Inspector General (IG) showed that calls from suffering veterans who contacted the suicide hotline at the VA were not only being sent to voicemail, but some were never even returned. Each and every veteran who calls the suicide hotline should receive immediate support from a trained VA responder. The legislation that passed today, with my proposed language, clarifies that within the funding the VA will receive, a trained professional must be available to take an incoming call on the suicide hotline from a struggling veteran 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. There is absolutely no justifiable reason that a veteran who calls the suicide hotline should ever be sent to voicemail.”
05.19.2016	Washington, DC – On Thursday, May 19, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was presented with the “Legislator of the Year” award from the National Association of Private Special Education Centers (NAPSEC). NAPSEC supports special education programs for individuals with disabilities and their families on Long Island and across the country.
05.18.2016	Washington, DC –On May 18, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin’s (R, NY-1) legislation to expand care for disabled veterans (H.R. 2460) unanimously passed the House Veterans Affairs Committee with strong bipartisan support. Congressman Zeldin’s bill, H.R. 2460, would expand disabled veterans’ access to Adult Day Health Care; a daily program for disabled veterans who need extra assistance and special attention in their day to day lives. Service members who are 70% or more disabled from a service connected injury often require significant assistance from others in order to carry out basic everyday tasks. Many times the burden falls on family members of disabled veterans; some veterans may even need to reside in institutionalized facilities to receive the daily assistance of a trained medical professional. Both of these options can create financial and emotional hardships. One program that is currently available to help disabled veterans is Adult Day Health Care, which can be offered at State Veterans Homes across the United States. Adult Day Health Care programs provide disabled veterans and their families with a high quality alternative to nursing home care. However, the VA does not currently cover the cost of participation in this program at state veteran homes and the expense of the program is put directly on the veteran and their family, which significantly limits the number of veterans who can enroll. The program is also only currently offered at three facilities in the United States; one being the Long Island State Veterans Home in Stony Brook. H.R. 2460 would ensure that severely disabled veterans, those who are 70% or more service connected disabled, are able to receive Adult Day Health Care at no cost to them by defining the program as a reimbursable treatment option through the VA. The bill would also help expand Adult Day Health Care on Long Island and in states across the country. The bill has strong bipartisan support in Congress, with already over 50 cosponsors, including the entire Long Island Congressional Delegation. The bill also has received support from various Veteran Service Organizations (VSOs), including the American Legion, AMVETS and Disabled American Veterans (DAV). Congressman Zeldin said, “With committee passage of my bill to expand Adult Day Health Care for disabled veterans, we are now one step closer to this bill coming to the House floor for a vote this year. This is an important bipartisan bill that ensures our brave American heroes receive the proper treatment and care they deserve after sacrificing so much for our country. There are so many options of quality care for veterans, but too often their choices are limited. By passing this bill, we can ensure that all veterans receive the best and most efficient outpatient services, while also allowing them to maintain their independence. Getting this bill passed and signed into law is a top priority, and I will continue working with my colleagues in the House and all of the supportive veterans groups to bring this bill to the House floor this year to expand Adult Day Health Care for our disabled veterans on Long Island and across the country.”
05.17.2016	Islip, NY – On Saturday, May 14, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended and spoke at the Honor Flight Long Island’s return to Islip’s MacArthur Airport from Washington, DC. Honor Flight brings WWII veterans and their families to Washington, DC to visit the memorials. There were over 1,500 people estimated in attendance to welcome the veterans home. The Congressman is pictured above at the event.
05.16.2016	Washington, DC – Today, May 16, 2016, the House of Representatives passed Congressman Lee Zeldin’s (R, NY-1) bill to prevent the sale of Plum Island by the federal government to the highest bidder (H.R. 1887). The bill passed unanimously with strong bipartisan support. Allowing for continued research, public access and permanent preservation of the island, Congressman Zeldin’s bill, H.R. 1887, will reverse a 2008 law that mandated the public sale of Plum Island by the federal government to the highest bidder. H.R. 1887 was marked up with an amendment and passed the House Homeland Security Committee unanimously last month on April 28, 2016. The bill, as amended, will commission the Government Accountability Office, in consultation with the Department of Homeland Security which currently owns the island, to formulate a comprehensive plan for the future of the island. This plan will include possible alternative uses for the island including a transfer of ownership to another federal agency, the state or local government, a non-profit, or a combination thereof for the purpose of education, research, and conservation. Since World War II, Plum Island has been utilized as a research laboratory. The facility, which has been under federal jurisdiction since 1899, has since grown to become what is known today as the Plum Island Animal Disease Center. In 2005, the Department of Homeland Security, which currently has jurisdiction over the island, announced that the Animal Disease Center research would be moved to a new federal facility, the Bio-and-Agro Defense Facility (NBAF) in Kansas. To offset the cost of this relocation, a law was enacted that called for the private sale of Plum Island to the highest bidder. However, due to the costs associated with the cleanup and closure of Plum Island, and because of Southold Town zoning restrictions, the federal government would receive far less compensation for the sale of Plum Island. Congressman Zeldin said, “This afternoon, my legislation to save Plum Island from a sale to the highest bidder passed the House of Representatives unanimously with strong bipartisan support. This is a huge step forward in the efforts to protect and preserve this beautiful land, almost all of which is completely undeveloped. Plum Island, a critical natural, cultural and historical treasure, has been cherished by our local community since before the 1700s, which is why we must protect this land for generations to come. With House passage of this bill, it’s now time for the Senate to act, so that we can get this legislation signed into law by the President this year.”
05.16.2016	Wading River, NY – On Saturday, May 14, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the South Country Ambulance Company’s Annual Installation Dinner in Wading River. Pictured above, from left to right, are Frank Trotta, Congressman Zeldin, Richard Twilger and Greg Miglino.
05.16.2016	Brentwood, NY – On Sunday, May 15, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke at the 2016 Suffolk County Community College Commencement Ceremony. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above speaking at the ceremony.
05.16.2016	Riverhead, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), joined by supportive local elected officials, environmental groups and residents who are concerned with the future of Plum Island, hosted a press conference today to announce that the House of Representatives is expected to vote on his bill to prevent the sale of Plum Island by the federal government to the highest bidder (H.R. 1887) today, May 16, 2016. You can watch this afternoon’s vote around 4:00 PM live on CSPAN or online at houselive.gov. Allowing for continued research, public access and permanent preservation of the island, Congressman Zeldin’s bill, H.R. 1887, will reverse a 2008 law that mandated the public sale of Plum Island by the federal government to the highest bidder. H.R. 1887 was marked up with an amendment and passed the House Homeland Security Committee with strong bipartisan support last month on April 28, 2016. The bill, as amended, will commission the Government Accountability Office, in consultation with the Department of Homeland Security who currently owns the island, to formulate a comprehensive plan for the future of the island. This plan will include possible alternative uses for the island including a transfer of ownership to another federal agency, the state or local government, a non-profit, or a combination thereof for the purpose of education, research, and conservation. Since World War II, Plum Island has been utilized as a research laboratory. The facility, which has been under federal jurisdiction since 1899, has since grown to become what is known today as the Plum Island Animal Disease Center. In 2005, the Department of Homeland Security, which currently has jurisdiction over the island, announced that the Animal Disease Center research would be moved to a new federal facility, the Bio-and-Agro Defense Facility (NBAF) in Kansas. To offset the cost of this relocation, a law was enacted that called for the private sale of Plum Island to the highest bidder. However, due to the costs associated with the cleanup and closure of Plum Island, and because of Southold Town zoning restrictions, the federal government would receive far less compensation for the sale of Plum Island. Congressman Zeldin said, “Today, I am thrilled to announce that my legislation to save Plum Island has been scheduled for a vote in the House of Representatives, where it’s expected to pass, later this afternoon. Plum Island is truly a natural, cultural and historical treasure that has been cherished by our local community since before the 1700s, which is why protecting this critical land is so important. I would like to thank all of the local elected officials who have been so completely committed towards this effort, including Southold Town’s decision to rezone Plum Island, which was an important and critical boost. I would also like to thank all of the groups and concerned residents who have moved heaven and earth to raise awareness of this cause and help recruit cosponsors. In Congress, I would like to especially thank House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy and House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul for both taking such a direct personal interest in helping me with this effort in the House. After the House passes HR 1887 this evening, the legislation will be sent to the United States Senate for passage there. None of us can stop fighting for this bill until it is passed by the Senate, and signed into law by the President this year.” Senator Ken LaValle said, “We have fought for many years to stop the federal government from selling Plum Island. The island contains nationally significant natural, cultural, historic and scenic features and resources, and should be preserved. I congratulate Congressman Zeldin for his efforts to halt the sale of this important property, and look forward to working with him to preserve and protect this unique environmental treasure.” Southold Town Supervisor Scott Russell said, “I think I can speak for many here on the east end when I say “thank you” to Congressman Zeldin for listening to our concerns and taking action. Plum Island is a jewel and a national treasure. The federal government’s plan to see it off to the highest bidder is ill-conceived and short-sighted. Congressman Zeldin’s efforts, that have resulted in the vote being taking later today, have taken us the closest we’ve been yet to our goal of protecting this fragile ecosystem. It gives us all hope as we press forward.” “We deeply appreciate the hard work of legislative champions like Congressman Zeldin and the region's engaged citizens in the united effort to protect Plum Island,” said Chris Cryder, special projects coordinator for Save the Sound, a bi-state program of Connecticut Fund for the Environment. “Hopefully the 'Don't Sell Plum Island' bill will halt the ill-advised marketing campaign to auction the island and help provide a pathway to permanent conservation. Congress has listened to the voices of those fighting for Plum Island’s endangered species and historic buildings—it's time our federal agencies listened too.” Robert S. DeLuca, President of the Group for the East End, said "Congressman Zeldin is making meaningful and measurable progress on one of the most important conservation issues facing the East End. We look forward to a successful vote on the Save Plum Island bill, which would suspend the General Service Administration’s disturbing marketing campaign and assure an honest appraisal of the true environmental and economic consequences of selling this fragile public asset to the highest private bidder.” William Toedter, President of the North Fork Environmental Council, said, “For years, the residents and businesses of the North Fork have voiced their support of the Plum Island labs. And for years, environmentalists have voiced their concerns about protecting one of the most unique and precious ecosystems left on the eastern seaboard. Now is the time for both our local and national elected representatives to come together voice their support in removing the "For Sale" sign and placing the island and the wildlife which relies on its untouched woodlands, wetlands, beaches and surrounding waters on the path to preservation for the benefit of future generations.” “Congressman Zeldin’s fight to permanently protect Plum Island has given Congress the opportunity to create a natural conservation oasis in the midst of some of the nation’s most densely urbanized places,” said Erin Crotty, executive director of Audubon New York. “Audubon has made the permanent protection of Plum Island a priority because more than 210 bird species breed or forage on the island and in adjacent waters, including threatened and endangered birds such as Piping Plovers and Roseate Terns, and we are truly appreciative of the Congressman’s unwavering leadership on this issue.” "I commend Congressman Zeldin for his efforts in securing the bipartisan support to preserve Plum Island, a natural resource and home to a unique mix of ecosystems and wildlife," said Ashley Hunt-Martorano, Director of Marketing and Events at Citizens' Climate Lobby. "We have a responsibility to protect this open space against the sale and private development. I encourage all Representatives to vote in favor of preserving Plum Island as the environmental, cultural, and historic gift it is to our community now and also will be for generations to come." “The Nature Conservancy considers Plum Island, with its seven miles of natural shoreline, 700 acres of meadows, forest, wetlands, bluffs and beaches, and abundant wildlife one of its top land conservation targets on Long Island. We applaud Congressman Zeldin for moving the ‘Save, Don’t Sell Plum Island’ legislation out of committee and onto the full House floor for a vote,” said Nancy Kelley, executive director of The Nature Conservancy on Long Island. "Stopping the auction of Plum Island by the federal government to the highest bidder will allow conservation alternatives with public access to be thoroughly explored. We are hopeful that, when all things are considered, Congress will reach the same conclusion that The Nature Conservancy and the Preserve Plum Island Coalition has reached: Plum Island should be saved, not sold.”
05.16.2016	As a nation, supporting our veterans must always be one of our highest priorities. These brave men and women, who willingly and selflessly put their lives on the line while defending our country, deserve nothing but the highest quality of life and care once they return home. According to the Suffolk County Veterans Service Agency (VSA), there are 83,254 veterans who live here in Suffolk. With the highest population of veterans by county in New York State, and one of the highest in the entire country, there is a significant need for increased care options for our veterans in Suffolk County. There are so many options of quality care for veterans, but too often their choices are limited. Quality care can also come at a great expense. In an effort to expand access to care for our veterans, I recently introduced bipartisan legislation in Congress, H.R. 2460, which would ensure that 70% or more service connected disabled veterans are able to receive Adult Day Health Care, a daily program for disabled veterans who need extra assistance and special attention in their day to day lives, at no cost to the veteran and their family by defining the program as a reimbursable treatment option through the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). H.R. 2460 has strong bipartisan support in Congress, with over 45 cosponsors, including the entire Long Island Congressional Delegation. My bill would greatly expand this great option of care for veterans on Long Island and across the country. Just last month, on April 20, 2016, the House Veterans Affairs Committee hosted a hearing of the Subcommittee on Health regarding my bill, and on April 29, 2016, the Health Subcommittee held a markup and favorably forwarded my bill to the full committee for final consideration before being sent to the House floor for a vote. Working with my colleagues in the House, and various Veteran Service Organizations (VSOs), I will continue pushing to get this bill passed out of committee in earnest, to allow this bill to come to the House floor this year. While serving in the New York State Senate, I secured the funding necessary to create the PFC Joseph P. Dwyer Veterans Peer Project, a peer-to-peer support program for veterans suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI). PFC Joseph Dwyer, from Mount Sinai, New York, served in Iraq and received nationwide recognition for a photograph that went viral—showing him cradling a wounded Iraqi boy, while his unit was fighting its way up to the capital city of Baghdad. Sadly, after returning home and struggling with PTSD, PFC Dwyer died in 2008. Created in his honor, the Dwyer Program was initially launched in the counties of Suffolk, Jefferson, Saratoga and Rensselaer. Since 2013, the program has successfully expanded to over a dozen counties across New York. Earlier this year, I introduced bipartisan legislation in Congress, H.R. 4513, that will expand the Dwyer Program on a national level, so that every veteran in the U.S. eventually has access to a peer-to-peer support group. This bill has strong bipartisan support, including the entire Long Island Congressional Delegation. I will continue working together with them in the fight to expand the Dwyer Program. Additionally, right here on the East End, working closely with Peconic Bay Medical Center (PBMC) and VA, I secured an East End health care facility for veterans and their families at PBMC’s Manorville campus. After so bravely serving our country, this facility provides an important new option for veterans, increasing access to care for veterans who live on Long Island's East End, while still allowing them to continue receiving other services and ongoing treatment at the VA Hospital in Northport. There is so much more that Congress can do to improve the quality of life for our veterans. I will continue working to ensure that my bills that previously passed the House are signed into law, including H.R. 1569 to protect the benefits of deceased veterans and H.R. 1187, which would eliminate the loan limit that the VA can guarantee for a veteran. Congress also must continue to reform the VA wherever it under serves a veteran. A series of recent USA Today articles reported that VA supervisors in multiple states instructed their employees to falsify patient wait times at VA facilities. This is a slap in the face to all veterans and those responsible must be held responsible. Just last year, the House took a step forward by passing the VA Accountability Act of 2015 (H.R. 1994); legislation that I cosponsor that would make important reforms to the VA system, which will providing the necessary resources and flexibility the VA needs to hold poor performing employees accountable. While I believe that 99% of VA employees genuinely care about the work they do and want to help veterans, we must always ensure that the other 1% of those who are not acting in the best interest of veterans are held accountable. Our veterans deserve only the highest quality of care at our VA facilities. Fighting for our veterans who fought for us has always been one of my top priorities. I will continue my work in Congress to improve our veterans’ quality of care in any way that we can. Also, every day, my constituent services team works on cases to help Suffolk County residents. Since entering Congress last year, my office has successfully resolved over 3,150 cases; many of those are veteran cases. If you or your family ever needs help on a federal issue, I encourage you to contact my Long Island office at (631) 289-1097. Congressman Lee Zeldin, an Army veteran who continues to serve today as a Major in the Army Reserves, represents the First Congressional District of New York. The Congressman serves on the House Veterans Affairs Committee and two related subcommittees: the Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs, and the Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity.
05.13.2016	Washington, DC – On Thursday, May 12, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Healthcare Leadership Council’s annual Healthcare Innovation Expo, where the Congressman was recognized as a Champion of Healthcare Innovation, which is an annual award that is presented to members of Congress in recognition of their ongoing support of patient-centered medical progress.
05.13.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, announced that a package of bipartisan bills that he has been advocating for to help fight against the growing drug epidemic, specifically the rise in heroin and prescription opioid abuse on Long Island, passed the House of Representatives this week. Congressman Zeldin said, “Over the past year, working with the local community and my colleagues in Congress, I have been pushing to advance legislation in the House that would help provide us with the tools we need on Long Island to end the growing drug epidemic. This week, the House dedicated a full week to passing legislation aimed at addressing this epidemic by improving and increasing access to prevention, treatment, enforcement, and education.” “One of the bills that passed the House is the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, also known as “CARA,” (H.R. 953),” Congressman Zeldin continued. “As a cosponsor of this bill, I have been a vocal supporter of CARA since this bill was introduced at the beginning of last year. CARA would provide up to $80 million in funding to help prevent and treat addiction on a local level through community-based education, prevention, treatment and recovery programs. The bill would also provide the funding necessary to expand prescription drug monitoring across the country, and provide funding to supply our police force and emergency medical responders with higher quantities of Naloxone, a medication that is proven to reverse an opioid overdose. Just last month, CARA passed in the U.S. Senate. With House passage of this critical bill, we now are one step closer to this bill being signed into law.” “Another bill that passed the House this week, H.R. 4641, would improve the guidelines for prescribing opioids and pain medication by creating a task force of federal agencies and stakeholders that would review, modify and update best practices for pain management and prescribing pain medication. I offered an amendment to this bill with Congressman Seth Moulton of Massachusetts, which passed the House with unanimous bipartisan support, adding language to the bill to ensure that veterans’ service organizations will be part of that task force with federal agencies and relevant groups. This bill will improve the guidelines for prescribing opioids and pain medication to ensure that all parties involved in the pain medication process, from prescribers and pharmacists, to the patient who is taking the medication, have access to the most up-to-date information on pain management so that we can prevent lawful prescription use from becoming addictive. Just a few of the other bills the House passed this week include prevention measures to combat the epidemic, such as the Examining Opioid Treatment Infrastructure Act of 2016 (H.R. 4982), which would establish a report on recovery and treatment availability and infrastructure needs in the U.S., and H.R. 4976, a bill that would task a federal agency to create a plan on how to deal with the opioid and heroin epidemic. The House also passed legislation to help stop the flow of illegal drugs in our country, and keep drugs off our Long Island streets, by helping law enforcement officials identify and target drug traffickers (H.R. 3380), and allow for easier prosecution of these criminals (H.R. 4985).” “Although there isn’t just one piece of legislation that will completely solve this crisis, this week the House advanced many critical bills that will help in the fight to combat the rising drug epidemic. I will continue working with the local community and my colleagues in Congress to ensure that Long Island is equipped with the tools necessary to treat and prevent drug abuse,” Congressman Zeldin concluded. This week, Congressman Zeldin spoke on the House floor in support of these bills. You can watch the speech here and read the text of the speech here.
05.13.2016	**MEDIA ADVISORY** **Monday, May 16, 2016** **Rep. Zeldin to Make Big Announcement re: His Bill to Protect Plum Island** What: Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) will host a press conference to make a big announcement regarding his legislation in Congress to prevent the sale of Plum Island by the federal government to the highest bidder (HR 1887). When: Monday, May 16, 2016, at 10:00 AM Where: Milton L. Burns Park (formerly Grangebel Park), located on Peconic Avenue off of Main Street in Riverhead, NY 11901 Who: Congressman Lee Zeldin, public officials, local environmental groups and concerned citizens. All members of the public and press are invited to attend.
05.12.2016	Washington, DC – On Thursday, May 12, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with the eighth grade class from Southampton’s Tuckahoe Common School on the steps of the United States Capitol. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with the students. To schedule a tour of the U.S. Capitol, and other government buildings in the area, you can contact Congressman Zeldin’s Washington, DC office at (202) 225-3826, or you can visit his website at zeldin.house.gov.
05.11.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee and Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, introduced an amendment to legislation, H.R. 4641, which passed the House today with unanimous bipartisan support. H.R. 4641 would improve the guidelines for prescribing opioids and pain medication by creating a federal inter-agency and stakeholder task force that would review, modify and update best practices for pain management and prescribing pain medication. The task force will consist of representatives from various federal agencies, state medical boards, physicians, dentists, non-physician prescribers, hospitals, pharmacists, pharmacies, experts in the fields of pain research and addiction research, representatives of pain management professional organizations, mental health treatment community, addiction treatment and recovery community, pain advocacy groups and groups with expertise on overdose reversal, a person in recovery from addiction to medication for chronic pain and a person with chronic pain. Congressman Zeldin’s amendment, which both Congressman Zeldin and Congressman Moulton (D, MA-6) are co-leading, passed unanimously with bipartisan support, and added language to the bill to ensure that veterans’ service organizations will be part of that task force. Congressman Zeldin said, “There are many legitimate reasons and needs for some people to be treated with pain medication, one group being our veterans who return home suffering from the wounds of war. Appropriately prescribed pain medication can provide significant relief for those who are suffering, greatly improving their quality of life. However, many of these medications are highly addictive and can pose a serious risk. Through my amendment, we can ensure that veteran service organizations, which are so active in the veteran community, are also involved in the discussions to improve the guidelines for prescribing opioids and pain medication to ensure that all parties involved in the pain medication process, from prescribers and pharmacists, to the patient who is taking the medication, have access to the most up-to-date information on pain management so that we can prevent lawful prescription use from becoming addictive.”
05.11.2016	Washington, DC – On Tuesday, May 10, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with Long Island and New York members of the ALS Society in his Washington, DC office during ALS Advocacy Day on Capitol Hill. ALS is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that impacts nerve cells in the brain and the spinal cord.
05.10.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement today: "It's fitting that President Obama's foreign policy is being sold to the American public through the real life characters of Conrad Brean and Stanley Motss. In order for the President to expand his global apology tour to a new frontier in Hiroshima, he has once again deployed the White House's taxpayer funded fiction writer Ben Rhodes to use the media as props to sell this visit to the American public as somehow unrelated to every reasonable conclusion one would possibly draw as the trip's purpose. Following the Iran Nuclear Deal debacle, craftily, the United States will now be admitting that the decision to drop a bomb on Hiroshima and Nagasaki is the perfect symbol of why nuclear nonproliferation is necessary, while spinning to the American public that it is not an admission of guilt. How does the saying go, "Fool me once, shame on me, fool me 293 times, shame on..."? This President is in his eighth year as the leader of the free world and just as unqualified to dictate American foreign policy as he was as a community organizer in Chicago. Through generations, countless American service members and diplomats have sacrificed so much to make the United States safe, secure and free. Our nation's foreign policy should trump Obama's domestic political calculations, especially on his way out the door in his final term. This President has done enough damage with his foreign policy. There is no way this visit to Hiroshima for this purpose helps strengthen our nation unless one believes that weakness is strength."
05.10.2016	Selden, NY – On Monday, May 10, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke to Selden Middle School’s sixth grade class. The Congressman, pictured above, spoke about the importance of protecting the environment.
05.09.2016	Manorville, NY – On Saturday, May 7, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke at a Catholics for Freedom of Religion event at The Shrine of Our Lady of The Island. The Congressman, pictured above at the event, spoke about the importance of protecting religious freedom.
05.09.2016	Holbrook, NY — On Saturday, May 7, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Annual Lake Ronkonkoma Fire Department Installation Dinner at Villa Lombardi’s in Holbrook, NY. Pictured above, from left to right, are Congressman Zeldin, Bob Reilly, Sr., and Suffolk County Comptroller John Kennedy.
05.09.2016	The growing heroin and opioid crisis has especially hit home here in Suffolk County. According to the 2015 New York State Opioid Poisoning Overdose and Prevention Report, out of all 62 counties in New York, Suffolk County has been hit the hardest by the rise in heroin and opioid abuse. The report found that our county had the highest number of heroin-related overdose deaths out of any county in New York State. As a member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, I’ve spoken with affected families directly. Addiction is a truly devastating disease that shatters lives, families and communities. It’s a disease that only continues to spread at rapid rates, and more can and must be done to counteract the damage it has done, and prevent its rapid advancement. Working closely with our local community, I’ve been pursuing a more localized solution to address this crisis. Hosting multiple drug task force round tables here in Suffolk, I’ve been able to bring together local elected officials, law enforcement, health professionals, community groups, parents, concerned residents and those in recovery, to discuss various ways that we can combat this epidemic. Over the past year, working both with local residents and my colleagues in Congress, I have been pushing to advance legislation in the House of Representatives that would help provide us with the resources we need to end the growing drug epidemic here on Long Island. Just last week, joined by our local community, I was proud to announce that there is progress being made to pass several bills that will focus on improving and increasing access to treatment, enforcement, and education. The House of Representatives is now passing several important proposals aimed at addressing the growing heroin and opioid crisis. In a package of over a dozen bills, there are many comprehensive bills now being passed to address this crisis. While I have been dedicating the most amount of my time advocating for passage of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery (CARA) Act (H.R. 953), many other important proposals are also moving forward. One other bill that I cosponsor, H.R. 4641, would improve the guidelines for prescribing opioids and pain medication by creating a federal inter-agency and stakeholder task force that would review, modify and update best practices for pain management and prescribing pain medication. While there are many legitimate reasons and needs for some to be treated with pain medication, these highly addictive pills pose a serious risk. This critical bill would help ensure that all parties, from prescribers to patients, have access to the most up-to-date information, so that lawful prescription use does not become addicting. Just a few of the other bills include the Examining Opioid Treatment Infrastructure Act of 2016 (H.R. 4982), which would require Congress receive a report on substance abuse treatment availability and infrastructure needs in the U.S., and legislation that would task a federal agency to create a plan on how to deal with the opioid and heroin epidemic (H.R. 4976). Legislation is passing to help stop the flow of illegal narcotics into our country, to keep drugs out of our communities and off our streets, such as legislation to help law enforcement officials identify and target drug traffickers (H.R. 3380), and allow for easier prosecution of these criminals (H.R. 4985). There is not one piece of legislation that will completely solve this overwhelming crisis, but finally Congress is taking a big step forward in the fight against drug abuse. We must always do everything we can to provide our local communities with the resources necessary to help stop and prevent drug abuse through treatment, enforcement, and education, which is why I will continue pushing these efforts in the House. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York. The Congressman serves as a member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic in the House of Representatives, which focuses on finding solutions to this crisis, spreading awareness and increasing educational efforts.
05.06.2016	Hauppauge, NY – On Monday, May 2, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) toured the Gourmet Factory facility in Hauppauge. The Gourmet Factory is a company that specializes in the production of olive oil and other specialty items. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with Themis Kangadis, CEO of Gourmet Factory, right.
05.05.2016	Kings Park, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, hosted a press conference today to announce that a package of bipartisan legislation that he has been advocating for to help fight against the growing drug epidemic, specifically the rise in heroin and prescription opioid abuse on Long Island, is coming to a vote on the House floor next week. Congressman Zeldin, joined by Suffolk County Police Commissioner Tim Sini, health professionals, community groups, parents, concerned residents and those in recovery, expressed his strong support for the package of bills coming to the House floor next week, and encouraged all members of the House to vote for these critical bills. Congressman Zeldin said, “One year ago, at this same location, standing right here in this same exact spot, we stood together to express our strong commitment to advance legislation in the House of Representatives to help combat the growing drug epidemic that is sweeping across our island, state and nation at a rapid rate leaving behind a terrible wake of devastation and suffering — taking lives, tearing families apart, and destroying communities. Over the past year, as a member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, I’ve worked closely with many of you, hosting multiple drug task force round tables here on Long Island, to bring together local elected officials, law enforcement, health professionals, community groups, parents, concerned residents and those in recovery, to discuss and develop a more localized solution to address this crisis. Today, I’m proud to announce that our voices have been heard. Next week, the House of Representatives is dedicating a full week to passing legislation aimed at addressing this epidemic, with a package of several bills to combat the growing heroin and opioid crisis. Addiction and overdose deaths on Long Island and across our country are skyrocketing as a direct result of the increase in heroin and opioid abuse. Tomorrow, House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy will be announcing the final list of all of the many bills that have been scheduled for a vote for next week. Now is the time to triple our efforts and spread the word throughout our communities, so that more people will call their representatives in Congress to get these bills passed and we can start providing the necessary resources to those in need. Not one piece of legislation will solve this crisis, but we must always continue our fight in Congress to provide our local communities with the resources necessary to help stop and prevent drug abuse through treatment, enforcement, and education.” Congressman Zeldin published an op-ed earlier this week outlining a 21st century approach to combatting the heroin and opioid epidemic. You can read it here. “The heroin epidemic that our nation is facing is the number one public health and public safety issue here in Suffolk County," said Suffolk County Police Commissioner Timothy Sini. "Partnerships between local law enforcement and our federal representatives is a crucial tool in the battle against this scourge. We value our partnership with Representative Zeldin and his colleagues, and I want to thank Representative Zeldin for his latest efforts on this much needed funding." New York State Senate Majority Leader John J. Flanagan said "If we are going to combat the scourge of heroin and opioid abuse in our communities, it's going to take a team approach. On the state level, we recently provided $116 million in the state budget to address this crisis and get people the help they need, and I am pleased that Congressman Zeldin is working at the federal level to approve comprehensive legislation to do even more. This is a serious matter, and we need to attack it in a serious way, in cooperation with our partners in the federal government. Thank you to Congressman Zeldin for working tirelessly to find solutions that will begin to reverse this alarming trend." Steve Chassman, Executive Director, Long Island Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence, said, “The Long Island Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence (LICADD) commends Congressman Lee Zeldin for his leadership in advocating and addressing the devastating impact substance abuse is having on too many Long Island families. This is a public health crisis that needs to be of the highest priority. The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) should provide a blueprint and allot adequate funding to turn the tide on the human toll of this tragic substance use epidemic. The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) of 2015 is met with great hope and expectation. LICADD is thankful that Congressman Zeldin has demonstrated a leadership role in advocating for CARA to increase the availability of naloxone, mandate effective community education and prevention programs and greatly improve access to quality healthcare for treatment. In these times of great crisis, genuine leadership is required. Thank you Congressman Zeldin.” Richard Buckman, President, Long Island Recovery Association, said, "The Long Island Recovery Association (LIRA) applauds Rep. Zeldin and the entire Long Island Congressional delegation for co-sponsoring the Comprehensive Addiction Recovery Act (CARA) HR953/S524. CARA is bipartisan legislation aimed at addressing the nationwide opiate epidemic and provides a meaningful response through a broad range of initiatives including an investment in communities of recovery. We urge House leadership to fully support and pass CARA with all of its provisions". Kim Revere, President of Kings Park in the kNOw Community Coalition, said, “There are several bills before the house at this time but as a member of a Community Coalition, I would like to see an emphasis on prevention and recovery services. I believe wholeheartedly that prevention should begin at home but at this a difficult time in our country. I am seeing many adults abusing alcohol and Rx drugs and that does not bode well for our children. I would like to see permanent evidence based prevention programs implemented in school grades K-12. It starts with coping skills and works up to the dangers of using substances. Kids as well as their parents need to understand that science has discovered that our brains are still developing until we are 25 years of age. That is a wakeup call!” Linda Ventura, Founder of Thomas’ Hope Foundation, said, “Thank you Congressman Zeldin for supporting the efforts to provide necessary treatment and provide recovery support for patients suffering from the disease of addiction. We are losing a generation of young people to the disease of addiction specifically the heroin & opioid epidemic. A family on Long Island wakes up every day to the news that their family member has died to the disease. I lost my son, Thomas, at the age of 21 four years ago. The United States needs to commit every resource imaginable to fight this insidious disease. The lifesaving tool Narcan needs to be accessible to all concerned to help save a life in the interim of an overdose to find treatment. Treatment needs to be the appropriate level of care at the earliest intervention possible. Prevention!, Prevention-we must start educating and empowering our youngest of children with coping skills, relaxation techniques and communication skills. We as a nation must fight this disease from every front-Prevention, Treatment, Recovery, Law Enforcement. The time for discussion and committees is over- If the Ebola or the Zika virus had claimed the number of Americans lost to the disease of addiction- we would not be asking for funding. Addiction is a disease-not a choice! Addiction does not discriminate- no one is immune!!” Kym Laube, Executive Director, HUGS, Inc., said, “Prevention efforts are one of the most cost effective ways to combat addiction. We must shift the focus to where addiction begins not just where it ends. In many areas, prevention staff is reduced 30% as compared to the workforce that was present during the cocaine epidemic in the 80’s. We need to strengthen the workforce and not settle for any solution that does not comprehensively and strategically implement effective prevention strategies. We have the prevention science and if we truly want change, we must utilize it and not just have engage in quick fixes and band aid remedies. We need to do better. We simply owe it to our kids.”
05.04.2016	**MEDIA ADVISORY** **TOMORROW** **Thursday, May 5, 2016** **Rep. Zeldin to Host Press Conference Announcing Floor Votes Next Week on Bills to Combat Heroin & Opioid Epidemic** What: Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, will host a press conference to announce that a package of bipartisan legislation that he has been advocating for to help fight against the growing drug epidemic, specifically the rise in heroin and prescription opioid abuse on Long Island, has been scheduled to come to a vote on the House floor next week. Congressman Zeldin, joined by local elected officials, law enforcement, health professionals, community groups, parents, concerned residents and recovering substance abusers, will be urging support for these bills when they come to the House floor next week. Just a few weeks ago, Newsday reported an increase in overdose deaths on Long Island, stating that 442 people died of a heroin or opiate overdose in 2015, a number that has increased from 403 overdose deaths the prior year. Increases in overdose deaths on Long Island follow a nationwide trend. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), in 2014, over 28,000 overdose deaths in the U.S. were a result of heroin or opioid abuse. This was the highest recorded number of overdose deaths of any year. When: Thursday, May 5, 2016, at 1:30 PM Where: VFW Post 5796, 40 Church Street, Kings Park, NY 11754 Who: Congressman Lee Zeldin, public officials, local elected officials, law enforcement, health professionals, community groups, parents, concerned residents and recovering substance abusers. All members of the public and press are invited to attend.
05.03.2016	Hauppauge, NY – On Monday, May 2, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) participated in a tour, reception, and as a featured speaker at a Roundtable on Tourism on Long Island hosted at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in Hauppauge. As a kick off for National Travel and Tourism Week, Congressman Zeldin spoke about ways different levels of government, businesses, and community groups can work together to better promote tourism on Long Island. Pictured above, during a back of the house tour of the Hyatt, from left to right are: Damien Hirsch, General Manager of Melville Marriott Long Island; Congressman Lee Zeldin; Ozgen Cevik, General Manager of the Hyatt Regency Hotel.
05.02.2016	Patchogue, NY – On Friday, April 29, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted his second annual art reception, where he announced Gregory McGauvran, a high school student at Longwood High School, as the 2016 winner of the Congressional Art Competition for the First Congressional District: “The Artistic Discovery Contest.” In attendance were the seven finalists and their art teachers and families, Artspace curator Tracy Todd-Hunter, and local artists who served as judges. The seven finalists include Justin Fren of Patchogue-Medford High School, Alexis Nappi of Patchogue-Medford High School, Samantha Braband of Patchogue-Medford high School, Gregory McGauvran of Longwood High School, Alexandria Pepper of Smithtown Christian School, Austin Sala of Smithtown Christian School and Amanda Stanis of East Hampton High School. The House of Representatives hosts a nationwide high school art competition every spring to raise awareness of the importance of art programs in our schools, and to recognize and celebrate the creativity and diversity of our art students. The winning artwork for each congressional district is displayed in the United States Capitol for one year. The winner and a guest will receive a flight to Washington, DC to see their artwork on display in the U.S. Capitol building courtesy of Southwest Airlines. Congressman Zeldin said, “I would like to offer my congratulations to Gregory McGauvran, the artist of ‘American Life,’ and winner of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition for the First Congressional District. I would also like to thank all of the high school students who participated in this year’s art contest. All of the artwork that was entered into the competition was tremendously inspiring and my staff and I were truly amazed at the wide range of talent, creativity and enthusiasm the students in the First Congressional District possess.”
05.02.2016	Addiction is a heartbreaking disease sweeping across our island, state and nation at a rapid rate and leaving behind a terrible wake of devastation and suffering — taking lives, tearing families apart, and destroying communities. As addiction and overdose deaths continue to climb, specifically as a result of the recent rise in heroin and prescription opioid abuse, it’s essential that we take a 21st Century approach to combat this growing epidemic that is plaguing our country and taking hold of our loved ones. Through a three-pronged approach, focusing on treatment, enforcement, and education, we can overcome this crisis. Increasing funding and accessibility for treatment and recovery services is critically important to assist Americans coping with addiction. Incarceration alone is not the answer. Targeted and individualized treatment programs are essential to solve the addiction epidemic. We must also increase access to affordable treatment and recovery options through healthcare reform to treat addiction as a disease. Unless we systematically restructure our existing healthcare options, individuals will not be able to shoulder the significant financial costs that result from treatment. Second, we must focus on targeted enforcement to stop the flow of illegal narcotics into our country in order to keep drugs out of our communities and off our streets. Since previous efforts to solely incarcerate low level drug pushers have proven inadequate, we must change our approach to focus the efforts of law enforcement on those individuals in charge of trafficking drugs into the United States illegally. Allowing law enforcement entities to target drug kingpins and international narcotraffickers will destabilize global drug rings, making it easier to eliminate the local impacts of these dangerous drugs, while local law enforcement entities simultaneously target local drug pushers. Finally, we must provide funding for education and awareness in our schools and local communities to prevent experimentation and addiction. Without properly educating America’s youth on the realities of drug addiction, we will never be able to stem the tide and overcome this reoccurring nightmare. Education breeds confidence. Bringing the dangers of drug addiction out of the shadows and educating all Americans about the dangers of drug addiction is the only proven solution to a crisis of this magnitude. As we have seen with similar health risks, such as smoking and alcoholism, educating the public on the inherent dangers associated with addiction is essential to truly solve this challenge. There is so much that can and must be done on many different levels to combat the drug epidemic, and over the coming weeks, Congress is expected to take up bipartisan legislation to help fight against this growing crisis through treatment, enforcement and education. In addition to these legislative efforts on the federal level, I also believe this must be a community effort as well. I have hosted multiple drug task force round tables locally, to bring together local elected officials, law enforcement, health professionals, community groups, parents, concerned residents and recovering substance abusers, to discuss and develop a more localized solution to address this crisis. I look forward to continuing these efforts to combat heroin and opiate abuse. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York. The Congressman serves as a member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic in the House of Representatives, which focuses on finding solutions, spreading awareness and increasing educational efforts.
04.29.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, announced today that a bill he cosponsors in the House of Representatives, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) (H.R. 953/S. 524), which previously passed in the Senate, this week passed unanimously in the House Judiciary Committee, releasing the bill from committee and allowing the bill to move forward in the House. CARA would provide up to $80 million in funding to help prevent and treat addiction on a local level through community-based education, prevention, treatment and recovery programs. Funding would also be provided to supply communities with higher quantities of Narcan; a lifesaving medication that can reverse the effects an opioid overdose within minutes. Additionally, the grants made available through this bill would also provide the funding necessary to expand prescription drug monitoring in states throughout our country. Congressman Zeldin said, “I am proud to support and cosponsor the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act; bipartisan legislation aimed at increasing treatment and recovery services, and providing the proper education and resources at a local level. Having previously passed the Senate, and now with passage of this bill out of committee with unanimous bipartisan support, we are one step closer to this bill passing the House and being signed into law.” “Every single day, 78 people lose their battle with addiction, and their life, as a result of an opioid or heroin overdose. Last year, on Long Island alone, 442 people died of a heroin or opiate overdose, up from 403 overdose deaths the year before,” Congressman Zeldin continued. “As addiction and overdose deaths continue to climb, tearing apart families and communities, it is essential that we immediately bring this bill to the House floor for a vote.” “Getting CARA passed and signed into law is a top priority of mine, and I will keep fighting until this essential piece of legislation passes the House and is signed into law by the President. CARA is an important step in the fight, but also only just part of what needs to be done on so many levels to combat this epidemic. I will continue to support all legislation that addresses the rise in heroin and opiate abuse,” Congressman Zeldin concluded. Earlier this week, Congressman Zeldin sent a letter to House leadership at the Judiciary Committee and Energy and Commerce Committee, the two committees overseeing the markup of CARA, calling for clarification of language within CARA to ensure that all funding provided for Narcan production and supply is given to community-based providers. Click here to read more. Congressman Zeldin also published an op-ed this week on the need to confront the heroin and opioid abuse crisis. You can read it here.
04.28.2016	Washington, DC – On Thursday, April 28, 2016, the House Homeland Security Committee unanimously passed Congressman Lee Zeldin’s (R, NY-1) bill to prevent the sale of Plum Island by the federal government to the highest bidder (H.R. 1887), releasing the bill from committee and allowing it to come to a vote on the House floor this year. Allowing for continued research, public access and permanent preservation of the island, H.R. 1887 will reverse a 2008 law that mandated the public sale of Plum Island by the federal government to the highest bidder. The bill as amended will commission the Government Accountability Office, in consultation with the Department of Homeland Security, which currently owns the island, to formulate a comprehensive plan for the future of the island. This plan will include possible alternative uses for the island including a transfer of ownership to another federal agency, the state or local government, non-profit, or combination thereof for the purpose of education, research, and conservation. Congressman Lee Zeldin introduced the bill in Congress just over one year ago, on April 17, 2015, and since then has been working closely with the House Homeland Security Committee and House leadership to pass this bill through the full chamber this year. Congressman Zeldin said, “Plum Island is a natural treasure that has been a part of Long Island history since the 1700s. With approximately 90% of the land on Plum Island undeveloped, the island is home to a diverse wildlife and ecosystem, and serves as a critical habitat for migratory birds, marine mammals, and rare plants. It’s our responsibility to protect this precious land for future generations, which is why I am proud to have secured the passage of this bill out of committee and to the House floor for a vote. I would like to thank House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul and his entire staff for all of their great efforts to help make this critical development a reality. I would also like to thank my co-sponsors in Congress, as well as our local elected officials, concerned residents and community organizations who all did their part to create this important momentum. Over the coming weeks, I will continue working with my colleagues in the House and Senate, and supportive groups in the tristate area, like the Preserve Plum Island coalition, to get this critical bill passed on the House floor this year." House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R, TX-10) said, “It is important that we examine all the options for Plum Island. Congress needs to get the right information before moving ahead and determining the best possible use for the Island. I applaud Rep. Lee Zeldin’s vision and forethought on this issue, and I commend him for leading the effort to find responsible solutions.” "That H.R. 1887 has passed the House Homeland Security Committee, and will come before the full House for a vote this year, comes as most welcome news. This critically important legislation stops the clock on the marketing and sale of Plum Island and lays out a pathway for preservation of the Island", said John Turner, spokesperson for the Preserve Plum Island Coalition (PPIC). "The Congress of 2008 viewed Plum Island as nothing more than a chunk of real estate. The Congress of 2016, however, recognizes Plum Island for what it is - a nationally-significant treasure that should be preserved, protected, and cherished. We believe passage of the legislation from the Homeland Security Committee represents a critical turning point in the battle to save the Island and PPIC is delighted to work with Congressman Zeldin in advancing the most worthwhile goal of permanent preservation of Plum Island. Kudos to him and his House colleagues for taking this significant step," he added. “Thousands of citizens in New York, Connecticut, and Rhode Island have stood up for saving Plum Island, each one asking that the federal government protect the island’s endangered birds and historic buildings, and the character of Long Island’s East End,” said Chris Cryder, special projects coordinator for Save the Sound, a bi-state program of Connecticut Fund for the Environment. “Thanks to Congressman Zeldin’s leadership, the efforts of our entire regional congressional delegation, and the support of the Homeland Security committee, these goals are within sight. The ‘Don’t Sell Plum Island Act’ is a critical step in our shared fight to save Plum Island.” “Congressman Zeldin's leadership on preserving Plum Island as undeveloped has immense environmental value,” said Ashley Hunt-Martorano, Director of Marketing & Events at Citizens’ Climate Lobby. “Open space has become rare on Long Island and protecting Plum Island against development ensures that future generations can have access to nature and wildlife. I especially commend Congressman Zeldin for reaching across the aisle to secure bipartisan support on this legislation. I look forward to seeing more bipartisan efforts in our Congress.”
04.26.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, is helping lead the fight in Congress to increase funding to supply local communities with Naloxone, or Narcan, which is a lifesaving medication that can reverse the effects an opioid overdose within minutes. Congressman Zeldin today sent a letter to House leadership at the Judiciary Committee and the Energy and Commerce Committee, which are expected to markup the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) (H.R. 953) this week. The letter calls for clarification of language within CARA to ensure that all funding provided for Narcan production and supply is given to community-based providers. CARA, which Congressman Zeldin cosponsors in the House, would provide up to $80 million in funding to help prevent and treat addiction on a local level through community-based education, prevention, treatment and recovery programs. Funding would also be provided to supply higher quantities of Narcan. Additionally, the grants made available through this bill would also provide the funding necessary to expand prescription drug monitoring in states throughout our country. Last month, CARA passed in the U.S. Senate by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 94-1. You can view a copy of the letter here: Zeldin CARA letter.pdf
04.25.2016	Ronkonkoma, NY – On Friday, April 22, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended a ribbon-cutting ceremony on Earth Day at the SUNation Solar Systems facility in Ronkonkoma. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above speaking during the ceremony.
04.25.2016	The rapid rise in drug abuse across the country, specifically the sharp increase in heroin and prescription opioid abuse, has severely impacted our local community and has become a major issue across the country. Tragically, 78 people each day will lose their battle with addiction, and their life, as a result of an opioid or heroin overdose. Sadly, with the trends moving the way they are, this number will only continue to increase. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), in 2014, over 28,000 people lost their lives due to prescription opioid pain relievers or heroin. This was the highest recorded number of overdose deaths of any year. Newsday just reported an increase in overdose deaths on Long Island, stating that 442 people died of a heroin or opiate overdose in 2015, a number that has increased from 403 overdose deaths the prior year. Addiction is a devastating disease that takes hold of our loved ones and impacts everyone around that person. This is a lonely and heartbreaking disease that is taking lives, tearing families apart, and destroying our communities. It must be stopped. In a report that highlights the growing drug abuse epidemic sweeping across our nation, the CDC found that over the past decade, heroin use has doubled among young adults ages 18–25 and heroin-related overdose deaths have nearly quadrupled, with every six out of ten drug overdoses linked to opioids or heroin. The CDC also found that almost half of the people who use heroin are also struggling with a prescription opioid addiction. As drug abuse continues to rise, claiming lives and grabbing hold of our youth, it’s clear that we must come together to address this crisis. Throughout my time in the New York State Senate, and now in the United States Congress, one of my top priorities has been to support legislation to help those coping with drug addiction by increasing treatment and recovery services. One piece of legislation that I am proud to support and cosponsor is the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, also known as “CARA,” (H.R. 953). CARA would provide up to $80 million in funding to help prevent and treat addiction on a local level through community-based education, prevention, treatment and recovery programs. The grants made available through this bill would also provide the funding necessary to expand prescription drug monitoring in states throughout our country. Additionally, CARA provides funding to supply our police force and emergency medical responders with higher quantities of Naloxone, a medication that is proven to reverse an opioid overdose. Since this bill was introduced at the beginning of last year, I have been pushing for a vote on CARA in the House. Just last month, CARA passed in the U.S. Senate by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 94-1. Now it’s time to bring this bill to the House floor. As a member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, passage in the House of CARA is a top priority of mine and I’ll keep fighting so that we can pass this essential piece of legislation and send it to the President’s desk for his signature. Another important piece of legislation that I am pushing to advance in the House is The Stop Overdose Stat (SOS) Act (H.R. 2850). The SOS Act, which I cosponsor, would provide an additional $25 million over a 5 year period for Naloxone production and distribution, to help increase the supply of this lifesaving medication, so that more medical professionals and families have it in their possession, and are trained and ready to administer. This bill would also establish a preventative research task force, which would research ways to prevent future overdose deaths, taking a unique, preventative approach to fight against drug abuse. In Congress, I’ll keep working to move this bipartisan legislation through the House. Fighting drug abuse must be an effort at all levels of the government, but it also must be a community effort as well. That is why I have hosted press conferences and panel discussions, including a community summit and drug task force roundtable here on Long Island, to bring together local elected officials, law enforcement, health professionals, community groups, parents, concerned residents and recovering substance abusers, so that we can all develop and pursue necessary solutions. CARA and the SOS Act are only two of the many bills that are in the House that we can pass to help fight against the growing drug crisis. There are a number of other bills that we can pass, including the Examining Opioid Treatment Infrastructure Act of 2016 (H.R. 4982), which would require the Comptroller General to issue a report to Congress on substance abuse treatment availability and infrastructure needs across the country, as well as legislation that would task the FDA to create a plan on how to deal with the opioid and heroin epidemic (H.R. 4976). The House is also expected to take up legislation to stop the flow of illegal substances into our country, such as H.R. 3380, which would help law enforcement officials identify and target drug traffickers, and H.R. 4985, which makes it easier to prosecute drug traffickers. We must all continue to support legislation that addresses the rise in heroin and opiate abuse to stop the tragic loss of life, family and community as a result of addiction. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York. The Congressman serves as a member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic in the House of Representatives, which focuses on finding solutions, spreading awareness and increasing educational efforts.
04.24.2016	Riverhead, NY –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted a press conference today to announce a major breakthrough on legislation he introduced in Congress just over one year ago, on April 17, 2015, to prevent the sale of Plum Island by the federal government to the highest bidder (H.R. 1887). Joined by supportive local elected officials, environmental groups and residents who are concerned with the sale of Plum Island, Congressman Zeldin announced that his bill, H.R. 1887, will be marked up with an amendment and voted on in the House Homeland Security Committee, this upcoming week on April 28, 2016, releasing the bill from committee and allowing it to come to a vote on the House floor this year. The bill as amended will commission the Government Accountability Office, in consultation with the Department of Homeland Security, which currently owns the island, to formulate a comprehensive plan for the future of the island. This plan will include possible alternative uses for the island including a transfer of ownership to another federal agency, the state or local government, a non-profit, or a combination thereof for the purpose of education, research, and conservation. Since World War II, Plum Island has been utilized as a research laboratory. The facility, which has been under federal jurisdiction since 1899, has since grown to become what is known today as the Plum Island Animal Disease Center. In 2005, the Department of Homeland Security, which currently has jurisdiction over the island, announced that the Animal Disease Center research would be moved to a new federal facility, the Bio-and-Agro Defense Facility (NBAF) in Kansas. To offset the cost of this relocation, a law was enacted that called for the private sale of Plum Island to the highest bidder. However, due to the costs associated with the cleanup and closure of Plum Island, and because of Southold Town zoning restrictions, the federal government would receive little compensation for the sale of Plum Island. Allowing for continued research, public access and permanent preservation of the island, Congressman Zeldin’s bill, H.R. 1887, will reverse a 2008 law that mandated the public sale of Plum Island by the federal government to the highest bidder. Congressman Zeldin said, “Situated at the gateway of the Long Island Sound, Plum Island is treasured by our local community. As a critical resource for research, approximately 90% of the land on Plum Island has been sheltered from development, offering Long Island a diverse wildlife and ecosystem and a critical habitat for migratory birds, marine mammals, and rare plants. With recorded history dating back to the 1700s, Plum Island is also an essential cultural and historical resource as well. To protect this precious land, I introduced legislation in Congress last year that would prevent the sale of the island by the federal government to the highest bidder. I am pleased to inform you that my bill, which has strong bipartisan support from the entire Long Island and Connecticut delegation in both the House and Senate, is now moving forward in the House, with an expected vote out of the House Homeland Security Committee expected as early as Thursday, April 28, of this upcoming week. Working with my colleagues in the House and Senate, and supportive groups in the tristate area like the Preserve Plum Island coalition, I will continue pushing for passage of this critical bill out of committee and on the House floor so that we protect Plum Island.” New York State Assemblyman Anthony Palumbo said, "Great work by Congressman Zeldin to keep this legislation moving through the House as we are all quite concerned about the fate of Plum Island. Congressman Zeldin continues to prove that he is a man of action." Southold Town Supervisor Scott Russell said, “I want to thank Congressman Zeldin for making the preservation of Plum Island a top priority. Protection of Plum Island is critically important to the people of the East End. The Congressman’s leadership and vision on this important issue lets us all know we have a champion for our cause in Washington. “Thanks to Congressman Zeldin’s leadership, Plum Island is on the verge of being forever protected from being purchased and developed by private owners. Preserving this island will allow generations to come to understand and appreciate this unique jewel and the wildlife there that so enrich our lives,” said Brookhaven Town Supervisor Ed Romaine. “For three centuries, Plum Island has played a role in the history of Long Island, and has served as a preserve and sanctuary for numerous species of plants, birds and animals. I urge the Homeland Security Committee to approve this legislation, and for the full House of Representatives to vote in favor of this bill.” Erin Crotty, Director of the Audubon New York Executive Director, said, “Audubon New York applauds Congressman Zeldin for his leadership in the fight to stop the sale of Plum Island and protect this vital habitat for generations to come. As the human footprint expands, natural and critical habitat like that found on Plum Island becomes increasingly scarce. More than 210 bird species breed or forage on Plum Island and in adjacent coastal waters, including many threatened and endangered species. It’s urgent that the island be permanently preserved for conservation, recreation, education, and research.” Bill Toedter, President of the North Fork Environmental Council, said, “Over the past six decades, the current Plum Island operation has served not only the region and the nation well, it has served the best interests of the whole world. Now, as the mission of the current lab transitions, it's in the hands of our elected representatives to ensure that the island continues to serve the best interests of the region and our nation. With its unique location and its diverse and dynamic terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, and the animals they support, Plum Island is a national treasure which must be protected and preserved. Only by doing so, can this unique and important national treasure continue to flourish and serve the interests of nature, science and the public. Residents and businesses of the North Fork have long known the importance of Plum Island. We ask our national representatives to understand that importance and move to preserve Plum Island for future generations.” “As we celebrate Earth Week, we are reminded that the perpetual protection of Plum Island is an incredible opportunity to preserve a significant natural and historical asset of our East End community. We urge the Federal government to adopt a conservation plan for the island that will benefit all! It’s a rare opportunity - one we should not miss,” said John v.H. Halsey, President of the Peconic Land Trust. “We applaud Congressman Zeldin for taking bold steps to enact legislation to protect Plum Island — a national treasure. With seven miles of natural shoreline, hundreds of bird species, seals, rare plants, and 700 undeveloped acres, it’s considered one of The Nature Conservancy’s top land preservation priorities for Long Island,” said Nancy Kelley, Executive Director for The Nature Conservancy on Long Island. “Conservation of Plum Island is all the more important as it straddles two national estuaries of significance, the Long Island Sound and Peconic Estuary." “Plum Island is home to a unique mix of ecosystems and wildlife, some of which are endangered, and has immeasurable environmental value,” said Ashley Hunt-Martorano, Director of Marketing & Events at Citizens’ Climate Lobby. “Preserving open space by protecting Plum Island against the sale and private development is a gift to our community now, and to generations to come. I commend Congressman Zeldin for his efforts in securing bipartisan support to protect this natural resource.”
04.22.2016	**MEDIA ADVISORY** **Sunday, April 24, 2016** **Rep. Zeldin to Announce Major Breakthrough Regarding Legislation to Protect Plum Island** What: Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) will host a press conference to announce a major breakthrough on legislation he introduced in Congress to prevent the sale of Plum Island by the federal government to the highest bidder (HR 1887).When: Sunday, April 24, 2016, at 10:00 AM Where: Gazebo at Reeves Beach off Park Road in Riverhead, NY 11901 (https://www.townofriverheadny.gov/files/documents/reeves.beach.pdf) Who: Congressman Lee Zeldin, public officials, local environmental groups and concerned citizens. All members of the public and press are invited to attend.
04.21.2016	Washington, DC – On April 20, 2016, the House Veterans Affairs Committee hosted a hearing of the Subcommittee on Health regarding legislation that Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) introduced in Congress (H.R. 2460) to expand disabled veterans’ access to Adult Day Health Care; a daily program for disabled veterans who need extra assistance and special attention in their day to day lives. Congressman Zeldin introduced H.R. 2460 to ensure that severely disabled veterans, those who are 70% or more service connected disabled, are able to receive Adult Day Health Care at no cost to them. The bill would expand veterans’ access to Adult Day Health Care on Long Island and across the country by defining the Adult Day Health Care program as a reimbursable treatment option through the VA. The bill would also help expand this program, which is currently only offered at three of the 153 State Veterans Homes (SVH) in the U.S. Congressman Zeldin testified on his bill during the hearing, expressing the need to pass this critical legislation. The full text of Congressman Zeldin’s testimony can be found here: Written Testimony for HR 2460.pdf You can also watch the full hearing here. (Congressman Zeldin’s testimony is at 57:55) H.R. 2460 has strong bipartisan support in Congress, with already over 45 cosponsors, including the entire Long Island Congressional Delegation. The bill also has received support from various Veteran Service Organizations (VSOs), including the American Legion, AMVETS and DAV, all of which provided testimony at the legislative hearing.
04.20.2016	Washington, DC – On April 19, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, questioned David Shulkin, Under Secretary for Health at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), during a full committee hearing titled, “A Continued Assessment of Delays in Veterans’ Access to Health Care.” The Congressman’s questions were regarding the recent USA Today report that reviewed VA investigations and found that VA supervisors in at least seven different states instructed their employees to falsify patient wait times in VA facilities. You can watch the questioning here.
04.18.2016	Stony Brook, NY — On Monday, April 18, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) toured the Stony Brook Trauma Center located at Stony Brook University Hospital. The Stony Brook Trauma Center is the only regional trauma center in Suffolk County. Pictured above during the tour, from left to right, are Dr. James A. Vosswinkel, Director of the Trauma Center, and Congressman Zeldin.
04.18.2016	Smithtown, NY — On Saturday, April 16, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Hagerman Fire District Installation Dinner in Smithtown. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with Hagerman Fire District Chief John Mahoney.
04.18.2016	Situated at the gateway of the Long Island Sound, Plum Island, an 840 acre island, is valued by our local community as a critical resource for research and for its abundance as a cultural, historical, and natural resource. The recorded history of Plum Island dates back to the 1700s. Originally belonging to the Corchaug and Montaukett Indian tribes, Plum Island was the site of the first battle between British and Continental troops ordered by General George Washington, and hosts Fort Terry, an artillery post used during the Spanish-American War, World War I and World War II. After World War II, Fort Terry was utilized as a research laboratory, where hoof and mouth disease and other threats to our food supply were studied. The facility, under federal jurisdiction since 1899, has since grown to become what is known today as the Plum Island Animal Disease Center. The Animal Disease Center has sheltered approximately 90% of Plum Island from development over the past several decades, which makes Plum Island a treasured environmental resource, offering Long Island a diverse wildlife and ecosystem and a critical habitat for migratory birds, marine mammals, and rare plants. When I visit the island, the magnificent scenery makes me feel like I’m visiting an exotic island thousands of miles away from home. It is hard to believe that a treasure like Plum Island is here right in our own back yard. In 2005, the Department of Homeland Security, which currently has jurisdiction over the island, announced that the Animal Disease Center research would be moved to a new federal facility in Kansas. To offset the cost of this relocation, a law was enacted that called for the private sale of Plum Island to the highest bidder. The sale of Plum Island is based on a false assumption that it could offset the cost of the new facility, when the true value of the island, including clean-up costs and zoning, is less than originally anticipated. The traditional interagency consultation process regarding the disposal of federal property was also bypassed, putting the potential sale of this island on the fast track without consulting the local community or other federal agencies. Furthermore, the Town of Southold has local jurisdiction over the island and has passed ordinances preventing any private development. To protect Plum Island, I introduced legislation in Congress last year that would prevent the sale of the island by the federal government to the highest bidder. My bill, HR 1887, has strong bipartisan support from the entire Long Island and Connecticut delegation in both the House and Senate. Blessed with the natural beauty of Long Island, we must always be committed to protecting and preserving the abundance of our natural resources that are so important to our life, culture and economy; one of these is Plum Island. Having personally visited Plum Island, I can attest for the need to preserve this precious land. Congress should take action to pursue a better direction for Plum Island that would allow for continued research, public access and permanent preservation. Working with my colleagues in the House and Senate, and supportive groups in the tristate area like the Preserve Plum Island coalition, I know that we can stop the sale of Plum Island and preserve it for future generations. I will continue working in Congress to get this bill passed before the end of the year. Congressman Lee Zeldin, a member of the Long Island Sound Caucus in the House of Representatives, represents the First Congressional District of New York.
04.14.2016	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, April 13, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Congressional Diabetes Caucus, met in his Washington, DC office with Smithtown constituents from the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists (AACE) to discuss new and innovative ways to improve care for those with diabetes. Pictured above, from left to right, are Dr. Edward Condon, Lower New York-AACE Board Member, Congressman Lee Zeldin and Dr. Gary Trager, Lower New York AACE member. Both Dr. Condon and Dr. Trager are from the Town of Smithtown.
04.14.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, announced today that the American Legion formally endorsed his legislation to expand the PFC Joseph P. Dwyer Veteran Peer Support Program (“Dwyer Program”) to the national level (H.R. 4513). On behalf of the more than 2 million members of the American Legion, Dale Barnett, the National Commander, sent a letter to Congressman Zeldin to formally announce their support of H.R. 4513. You can view a copy of the letter here: 04.08.2016 American Legion Letter Supporting Dwyer Project.pdf In 2012, while serving in the NYS Senate, Congressman Zeldin created the Dwyer Program, a peer-to-peer support program for veterans suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI). PFC Joseph Dwyer, from Mount Sinai, New York, served in Iraq and received nationwide recognition for a photograph that went viral (view here) showing him cradling a wounded Iraqi boy, while his unit was fighting its way up to the capital city of Baghdad. Sadly, after returning home and struggling with PTSD, PFC Dwyer died in 2008 and left behind a young widow, Matina, and two year old daughter, Meaghan. Created in his honor, the Dwyer Program was initially launched in the counties of Suffolk, Jefferson, Saratoga and Rensselaer, and has since expanded to over a dozen counties in New York, including Nassau County. Congressman Zeldin's bill, which has the support of the entire Long Island congressional delegation, would authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to make grants to state and local entities to carry out peer-to-peer mental health programs, to take what has been accomplished in New York and expand it nationally. Congressman Zeldin said, “I thank the American Legion for recognizing the importance of peer to peer support and the PFC Joseph P. Dwyer Veteran Peer Support Program. With the endorsement of the American Legion, I will continue working in Congress to gather additional cosponsors for this critical legislation to bring much-needed assistance to our veterans and their families throughout our country.”
04.13.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressmen Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Mike Pompeo (R, KS-4) and Frank LoBiondo (R, NJ-2) sent a letter yesterday to Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Zarif, requesting a response on their visa applications to Iran, which they submitted more than two months ago. At the beginning of February, the three lawmakers submitted visa applications to travel to Iran to observe its elections and accomplish a number of other goals. They submitted a letter alongside their applications, outlining the aims of their trip. The full text of their letter to Zarif can be found here: 4.12.16 Letter to Foreign Minister Zarif.pdf Rep. Zeldin is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. He is an Army veteran and currently serves in the Army reserves. Rep. Pompeo serves on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the Select Committee on Benghazi. He is a graduate of West Point and an Army veteran. Rep. LoBiondo is a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the House Armed Services Committee.
04.12.2016	Patchogue, NY – On Tuesday, April 12, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) toured the facility of Blue Point Brewing Company in Patchogue. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, during the tour.
04.11.2016	Coram, NY – On Sunday, April 10, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended an Eagle Court of Honor for Boy Scout Troop 64 of Coram. During the ceremony, which took place at the Coram Fire Department, five members of the troop received the rank of Eagle Scout: Gilbert Burgos, Jr., George DeLucia, Jonathan Laza, Kyle Trestka and John Hernandez. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, with the 5 new Eagle Scouts.
04.11.2016	In the 21st Century, we must boldly advance our research to create the next generation of cures and deliver hope to those suffering from various diseases, both rare and wide spread. Cancer, Parkinson’s, Diabetes, Kidney Disease, and Multiple Sclerosis are just some of the many diseases that touch all of our lives, however, according to the National Institutes of Health, there are currently 10,000 known diseases, with 7,000 of these identified diseases or disorders considered to be “rare.” Rare diseases affect 200,000 people or less, but collectively affect more than 300 million people across the world. Right now, out of all of the identified diseases, there is only a treatment for 500 of them, leaving millions of Americans and their families suffering. In Congress, one of my highest priorities is funding research to provide the resources necessary to discover the next generation of treatment and deliver lifesaving or life improving cures. Last year, the House of Representatives passed the 21st Century Cures Act (H.R. 6), bipartisan legislation that I cosponsor in Congress to improve and modernize our nation’s healthcare. This legislation would accelerate the process for scientific advancement, while providing desperately needed research funding. The 21st Century Cures Act would remove barriers preventing research collaboration, increasing researchers’ access to essential data from previous research and clinical studies. The legislation secures $10 billion for the National Institutes of Health, which would provide additional research and development resources for Stony Brook University Research Center, Brookhaven National Laboratory, and other research laboratories right here on Long Island. The legislation would also boost the field of personalized medicine, tailoring treatment to patients’ needs. Among other important aspects of the bill, the 21st Century Cures Act would ensure our region remains a leader in the medical industry field, keeping research jobs here on Long Island. As a key piece of legislation for the health of residents on our island and across the nation, paving the way for healthcare innovation in the United States, we must continue working this year to get the 21st Century Cures Act signed into law. In bipartisan fashion, Congress successfully secured $32 billion for 2016 to fund the National Institutes of Health, $2 billion above the 2015 level, and $7.2 billion for 2016 to fund the Centers for Disease Control, $300 million above the prior year. In addition to NIH and CDC funding, there are many other ways that Congress can help deliver cures. The Accelerating the End of Breast Cancer Act (H.R.1197), which I cosponsor, is a bill that supports all efforts to end breast cancer by 2020. Whether funding research for well-known diseases like breast cancer, or rare diseases, such as Sarcoidosis, Tuberous Sclerosis, Duchene Muscular Dystrophy, and Neurofibromatosis, bipartisan progress is essential. The Clinical and Translational Science Awards and Institutional Development Award program are two great examples that come to mind. There is so much more we can do to develop effective treatments and cures to combat devastating diseases and illnesses. Funding research to deliver life-saving cures must always remain a top priority in Congress and include the resources necessary to advance research technology, education and medical innovation. Congressman Lee Zeldin represents the First Congressional District of New York. He is a member of the House Cancer Caucus and Congressional Diabetes Caucus, which both support increased funding for research and development to cure diseases.
04.08.2016	Riverhead, NY – On April 7, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with constituents at his East End office in Riverhead. One of his meetings was with Bryan DeLuca, Executive Director of the Long Island Aquarium and Exhibition Center. During the meeting, the two discussed ways the Congressman can assist with the growth of local tourism ventures on the North Fork. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, with Bryan DeLuca, left.
04.08.2016	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin, member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee and Army veteran, today released the following statement after a USA Today report reviewed VA investigations that found that at least 40 Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA) supervisors in at least 19 different states instructed their employees to falsify patient wait times in VA facilities: “Gross incompetence is an understatement and the Obama administration's silence is deafening. The brave men and women who answered the call of duty deserve to come home and receive the care they desperately need from a grateful nation. This is a slap in the face to all veterans and those responsible must be held responsible. While I believe that 99% of VA employees genuinely care about the work they do and want to help veterans, we must always hold accountable the other 1% of those who are not acting in the best interest of veterans. I sense no pain, no sense of justice, and no outrage from the President for a reprehensible crisis that has literally cost veterans their lives as a result. The American public is demanding this silence be broken, justice served, and the system fixed.” The USA Today story can be viewed here.
04.08.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted a Special Order on Tuesday, March 22, 2016 on the floor of the House of Representatives in honor of Women’s History Month. Also participating in Congressman Zeldin’s Special Order were Rep. Diane Black (R, TN-6), Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R, WA-5), Rep. Susan Brooks (R, IN-5) and Rep. Ted Poe (R, TX-2). You can watch the full Special Order here.
04.07.2016	Stony Brook, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, hosted a press conference today at Long Island State Veterans Home in Stony Brook to announce that he introduced bipartisan legislation in Congress (H.R. 2460) to expand disabled veterans’ access to Adult Day Health Care; a daily program for disabled veterans who need extra assistance and special attention in their day to day lives. Congressman Zeldin also announced that in just two weeks, on April 20, 2016, the House Veterans Affairs Committee will be holding a legislative hearing on his bill. Service members who are 70% or more disabled from a service connected injury often require significant assistance from others in order to carry out basic everyday tasks. Many times the burden falls on family members of disabled veterans; some veterans may even need to reside in institutionalized facilities to receive the daily assistance of a trained medical professional. Both of these options can create financial and emotional hardships. One program that is currently available to help disabled veterans is Adult Day Health Care, which can be offered at State Veteran Homes across the United States. Adult Day Health Care programs provide disabled veterans and their families with a high quality alternative to nursing home care. However, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) does not currently cover the cost of participation in this program at state veteran homes and the expense of the program is put directly on the veteran and their family, which significantly limits the number of veterans who can enroll. The program is also only currently offered at three facilities in the United States; one being the Long Island State Veterans Home in Stony Brook. In an effort to expand veterans’ access to this type of care on Long Island and across the country, Congressman Zeldin introduced H.R. 2460 to ensure that severely disabled veterans, those who are 70% or more service connected disabled, are able to receive Adult Day Health Care at no cost to them. The bill would define the Adult Day Health Care program as a reimbursable treatment option through the VA, which would guarantee that all severely disabled veterans are able to access Adult Day Health Care. The bill would help expand this program, which could be offered at any of the 153 State Veterans Homes (SVH) across the country. H.R. 2460 has strong bipartisan support in Congress, with already over 45 cosponsors, including the entire Long Island Congressional Delegation. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “It must always be a top priority of Congress to ensure that all veterans receive the proper treatment and care they deserve after fighting for our country. My bill, which has strong bipartisan support in Congress, with over 45 cosponsors including the entire Long Island Congressional Delegation, is just one more way that we can expand care for veterans. By providing disabled veterans with access to Adult Day Health Care programs, we can ensure that all veterans receive the best and most efficient outpatient services to provide them with the assistance and special attention that they need in their day to day lives, while still allowing them to maintain their independence. Adult Day Health Care allows the veteran to lead a much more fulfilling life, and also helps keep families together and strong. I will continue the fight in Congress to expand Adult Day Health Care for our disabled veterans.” “I applaud Congressman Zeldin for leading the way to advocate for severely disabled veterans at the federal level by introducing this legislation that will expand access to the Adult Day Health Care services for disabled military personnel across the country. The Long Island State Veterans Home at Stony Brook is one of only two facilities to offer these services, and the premier services they have offered to disabled veterans should be replicated in an effort to reach as many veterans as possible,” stated New York State Senator Tom Croci, Chair of the New York State Senate Committee on Homeland Security, Veterans, and Military Affairs. Brookhaven Town Supervisor Ed Romaine said, "Congressman Zeldin has a solid record of support for our veterans and those who are currently in the armed forces. I commend his efforts to make sure that the men and women who bravely served our country get the best possible care in their time of greatest need. This bill certainly eases the economic and emotional burden that many veterans and their families must bear." Dr. Kenneth Kushanksy, Dean on the School of Medicine and Senior Vice President of Health Sciences at Stony Brook University said, “Stony Brook Medicine wants to acknowledge Congressman Zeldin for submitting this legislation on behalf of veterans and their families. Providing funding for a long term care alternative, like medical model adult day healthcare, will give our veterans and their families much deserved choice. Stony Brook Medicine serves as a model for the rest of the nation as it relates to long term care for our nations heroes, and we are proud to be a part of this initiative.” Fred Sganga, Director of the Long Island State Veterans Home said, “Since the original legislation to provide no cost skilled nursing care to our veterans who are 70% or more service connected disabled was passed into law in 2006, those veterans who could possibly be served by an alternative like medical model adult day healthcare have been shortchanged of this wonderful opportunity. Congressman Zeldin had the resolve to recognize this issue and bring an appropriate fix not only for the Long Island State Veterans Home, but for the other 152 State Veterans homes across the country.” Dr. Frank Cervo, Medical Director for the Long Island State Veterans Home said, “As a board certified Geriatrician, I certainly recognize the value of allowing an individual to age in their own home. Our medical model adult day healthcare program affords veterans the opportunity to receive comprehensive medical and nursing services during the day while continuing to reside in the community. This commonsense legislation will benefit our heroes and we are proud to stand with Congressman Zeldin in support of this essential measure.” Mike Pascal, Former State Commander of the Veterans of Foreign Wars said, “As a combat veteran who proudly served our country during Vietnam, I recognize the plight of veterans who were exposed to Agent Orange during their military service. The VA has acknowledged that nearly 40% of Vietnam veterans fall into the category of 70% or more service connected disabilities. Common illnesses such as cancer, diabetes, and neuromuscular issues plague many of our veterans on Long Island. As Chairman of the Veterans Advisory Board at the Long Island State Veterans Home, I am so proud that Stony Brook Medicine provides this valuable service that will meet the needs of our ailing veterans, and I thank Congressman Zeldin for his leadership on this issue.”
04.05.2016	Ronkonkoma, NY – On Tuesday, April 5, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) toured the Retlif Testing Laboratories facility in Ronkonkoma. Retlif is an independent testing and engineering company that conducts international testing of products to assure regulatory compliance. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, during the tour with Mr. Walter Poggi, President of Retlif.
04.05.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, today released the following statement in response to reports that the Obama administration will provide Iran access to the U.S. dollar: “It is a bad idea to provide Iran access to the U.S. dollar, which is currently blocked through sanctions. Other nations do not process transactions with Iran, because they do not want to be cut off from the U.S. market. Our financial system provides critical leverage to hold countries like Iran accountable for their actions. Iran is the world's largest state sponsor of terrorism. Providing Iran with access to the dollar would only boost Iran’s destabilizing criminal activities. This latest action by the Obama Administration demonstrates a continued weakness on the part of the United States to give in to Iranian demands."
04.04.2016	Washington, DC – Congressmen Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Mike Pompeo (R, KS-4) and Peter Roskam (R, IL-6) sent a letter last week to Secretary of State John Kerry, requesting information on the Obama administration’s delayed and weak response to Iran’s multiple ballistic missile tests on March 8, 2016 and March 9, 2016. The full text of the letter can be found here: 3-31-16_missiles_iran_kerry_pompeo_roskam_zeldin.pdf
04.04.2016	Riverhead, NY — On Saturday, April 2, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) toured the agriculture industry on Long Island’s East End. The Congressman started his day at the Long Island Farm Bureau (LIFB), where he attended their annual Coffee with the Congressman event. While there, the Congressman met with local farmers, duck breeders, and land preservationists. Their discussion focused on ways to help grow the agriculture industry and cut through red tape and regulations that impact farming on the East End. Next, the Congressman toured the farming operations of a local farmer in Riverhead. The Congressman visited greenhouses, which is where lettuce is prepared for planting. Congressman Zeldin also toured the barn where the process begins for making varieties of horseradish for retail sales. Later, Congressman Zeldin toured Widows Hole Oyster Farm in Greenport, which is operated by Michael Osinski, the President of the Long Island Oyster Growers Association. Southold Town Supervisor Scott Russell joined Congressman Zeldin as they met with members of the association, and got to see firsthand the operation of an oyster separator on a dock overlooking the harbor in Greenport. Below are some of the pictures from the day. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, during discussions with members of the LIFB. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, with Phil Schmitt, left, in one of the greenhouses. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with Supervisor Russell viewing the operation of the oyster separator.
04.04.2016	Greenport, NY – On Saturday, April 2, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, honored Tech Sergeant Reggie Peterson, a Purple Heart and Bronze Star recipient from WWII, at his local church in Greenport. Tech Sergeant Peterson, who served in the 10th Armored Infantry and 20th Battalion of General Patton’s 3rd Army, is one of the last living WWII veterans on Long Island. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with Tech Sergeant Peterson. This was the first time that Tech Sergeant Peterson was formally presented with his Purple Heart and Bronze Star medals. The Congressman also presented Tech Sergeant Peterson with a Certificate of Congressional Recognition and an American flag that flew over the U.S. Capitol.
04.04.2016	What: Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, will host a press conference to (1) announce the introduction of bipartisan legislation he has introduced in Congress (H.R. 2460) to expand access to Adult Day Health Care, a daily program for disabled veterans who need extra assistance and special attention in their day to day lives; and (2) in two weeks, on April 20, 2016, the House Veterans Affairs Committee will be holding a legislative hearing on his bill. H.R. 2460 would ensure that seriously disabled veterans, those who are 70% or more service connected disabled, are able to receive Adult Day Health Care by defining the program as a reimbursable treatment option through the VA. This bill would guarantee that all seriously disabled veterans are able to access Adult Day Health Care at no cost to them, significantly increasing access to this great option of care for our veterans. H.R. 2460 has strong bipartisan support in Congress, with already over 45 cosponsors, including the entire Long Island Congressional Delegation. When: Thursday, April 7, 2016, at 11:30 AM Where: Long Island State Veterans Home, 100 Patriots Road, Stony Brook, NY 11970 Who: Congressman Lee Zeldin, public officials, veterans and their families who would be positively impacted by this legislation, representatives from Long Island State Veterans Home and SUNY Stony Brook, various veteran service organizations and veteran advocates. All members of the public and press are invited to attend.
04.04.2016	Supporting our nation’s veterans is an essential responsibility that we all share. Our service members repeatedly put their lives in danger to ensure our security. While overseas, these brave men and women are exposed to hardships and trauma, and when they come home, many return with the physical and mental wounds of war. Despite various care options for veterans, their choices are often limited, and can come at a great expense. Service members who are 70% or more disabled from a service connected injury often require significant assistance from others in order to carry out basic everyday tasks. In many instances, veterans must rely on family members for assistance, creating many financial and emotional hardships. Alternatively, some veterans, without the proper support system, may even be forced to rely on the assistance of trained medical professionals and reside in institutionalized facilities for daily assistance, which also comes at a great expense. Veterans in these facilities often spend significant sums of money each day just to be enrolled, and these expenses can be expected to span the remainder of the veteran’s life in many cases. While alternative options currently exist, accessing these services, however, can often be very difficult. One such program that is currently available is Adult Day Health Care; a daily program for disabled veterans who need extra assistance and special attention in their day to day lives. Adult Day Health Care programs provide disabled veterans and their families with a high quality alternative to nursing home care, providing quality outpatient services for those suffering from debilitating illnesses or disabilities. These programs provide a range of services from daily activities, such as bathing, to full medical services, like physical therapy. The focus of the program is on improving disabled veterans’ quality of life through an individualized plan specific to their needs, while still allowing them to maintain their independence. Not only does Adult Day Health Care benefit the veteran, but it also benefits the family members and caregivers as well. This model allows caregivers to tend to their day to day activities without worrying about the well-being of their spouse, child or friend. This option allows the veteran to lead a much more fulfilling life, and also helps keep families together and strong. Adult Day Health Care, however, is only offered currently at two facilities in the United States. Long Island is fortunate to be one of the two locations, with a facility right here in Suffolk County at Long Island State Veterans Home in Stony Brook, but this program could easily be offered at any of the 153 State Veterans Homes (SVH) across the country. Since the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) does not currently cover the cost of participation in this program, the expense must be paid out of pocket by the veteran and their family, which significantly limits the number of veterans who can enroll. In an effort to address this, and expand access to care for our heroes, I recently introduced bipartisan legislation in Congress, H.R. 2460, which would ensure that 70% or more service connected disabled veterans are able to receive Adult Day Health Care at no cost to the veteran and their family by defining the program as a reimbursable treatment option through the VA. This would expand this great option of care for our veterans. It must be a top priority of Congress to ensure that all veterans on Long Island and across the country receive the proper treatment and care they deserve. My bill, which has strong bipartisan support in Congress, with over 45 cosponsors including the entire Long Island Congressional Delegation, is just one more way that we can expand care for veterans. These brave men and women left the comforts of home to serve this nation and fight for our freedoms. Congressman Lee Zeldin, an Army veteran who continues to serve today as a Major in the Army Reserves, represents the First Congressional District of New York. In Congress, two of Rep. Zeldin’s committee assignments are Veterans Affairs and Foreign Affairs.
03.31.2016	East Hampton, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, announced today that he successfully obtained a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers permit modification to allow the Clearwater Beach Property Owners Association to dredge the inlet between Gardiners Bay and Hog Creek in East Hampton, NY. In late 2015, Congressman Zeldin’s office was contacted by East Hampton Town Supervisor Larry Cantwell and the Clearwater Beach Property Owners Association, which represents over 800 homeowners, asking for assistance in their efforts to obtain a permit modification that would allow for the dredging of the inlet between Gardiners Bay and Hog Creek. The dredging has been performed by the Association for over 10 years, but they are only allowed to dredge from September 30 to January 15 of each calendar year, a timeframe intended to protect the spawning of winter flounder. Due to unfavorable weather during the late winter and early spring of 2015, the channel was filled in with coarse sand and gravel, which has made it difficult to navigate the channel. The Association needed to obtain a permit to dredge this area in order to maintain the channel properly. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “Through discussions with the Army Corps of Engineers, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Services, New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, East Hampton Town and Clearwater Beach Property Owners Association, my office was able to secure the approval of a project to dredge the inlet between Gardiners Bay and Hog Creek. The dredging, which began on March 30 and will end today, on March 31, will ensure the channel is maintained properly, safeguarding our environment and abundance of natural resources, while ensuring the safety of those who live near and travel the channel.” East Hampton Town Supervisor Larry Cantwell said, “The shoaling at Hog Creek Inlet would have threatened the water quality of this Trustee-owned bottomland and boat access to the two marinas without this modest dredging project. Congressman Lee Zeldin’s efforts to help secure this one-time Army Corps of Engineers exemption made their approval consistent with the New York State DEC and Town dredging permits.” Gerry Giliberti, President of the Clearwater Beach Property Owners Association, said, “On behalf of over 800 families in the Clearwater Beach community, I would like to thank the offices of Congressman Lee Zeldin and East Hampton Supervisor Larry Cantwell for assisting our community in obtaining the federal, state and town permits for our Hog Creek to Gardiners Bay channel dredging. In addition, thanks goes to Principal Planner, Jim Walker, of Inter-Science who has helped coordinate and apprise these officials of the extremely complex approval processes that are needed for this maintenance dredging project. The members of our community strive to preserve and improve our seaside environment and are grateful for the efforts made by our governmental representatives to help us when we need it.” James L. Walker, Principal Planner of the Clearwater Beach Property Owner's Association, said, “Thank you to Congressman Lee Zeldin and his staff, and to Supervisor Larry Cantwell. As a result of their collective assistance, the channel from Hog Creek to Gardiners Bay is being dredged with permits issued by federal, state and town officials; despite serious regulatory agency hurdles and time constraints that complicated the approval process. As a result, the maintenance dredging of this municipal water body will proceed and the tidal exchange between the creek and bay will continue in a manner which will benefit the environment and allow safe navigation.”
03.30.2016	Patchogue, NY – On Tuesday, March 29, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met in his Patchogue office with representatives of the Citizens' Climate Lobby (CCL). During the meeting, they discussed efforts of the CCL to improve air quality. The CCL representatives also thanked Congressman Zeldin for the work he is doing in Congress to help safeguard the environment. Pictured with Congressman Zeldin, from left to right, are Ashley Hunt-Martorano, Director of Marketing and Events, CCL, and Jennifer Greene, a CCL volunteer.
03.28.2016	What: Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) will host his next mobile office hours, where constituents can sit down with the Congressman or a staff member for a one-on-one to discuss the issues or concerns important to them. Walk-ins are welcome. No appointment is necessary. Please note: All attendees who arrive by 11 AM will be guaranteed a meeting with Congressman Zeldin or staff. When: Monday, April 4, 2016 from 10:00 AM to 1:00 PM Where: Hampton Library, 2478 Main Street, Bridgehampton, NY 11932 Who: Congressman Lee Zeldin, staff, and constituents All members of the public and press are invited to attend.
03.28.2016	Too often in today’s world, we are reminded globally that we must all do more to protect the innocent and defeat those who threaten peace in the name of Islam. The recent terrorist attack in Brussels, Belgium, that left over 30 people dead and over 300 wounded, is one more brutal reminder that the threat posed by Islamic terror groups is not just a threat to the Middle East - it’s a threat that is growing all around the world. Just hours before the attack in Brussels, the House passed my Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2016 (H.R. 4314) with strong bipartisan support in a 371-2 vote. In the wake of the attack, I've been continuing the push to advance my bill to help stop foreign fighter travel to protect America’s security at home and abroad. Stopping foreign fighter movement is a top effort of mine and must be a highest priority for our country. Foreign fighter movement is a very serious challenge. The horrific terror attack in Paris, France that killed over 100 people was largely carried out by European nationals - many of whom traveled to train and fight in Syria and then later returned to Europe and were able to move across borders without detection. This is why we need improved border security globally and better information sharing between governments. Under my bill, international border security standards would be established to close security gaps that currently exist that allow foreign fighters to travel internationally. Another important component of my bill is that it would ensure U.S. resources are utilized in the most efficient way possible, focusing on high-risk and medium-risk countries to boost security, while also putting in place a reporting system that would monitor the efforts of foreign governments to combat terrorism and foreign fighter travel. Foreign assistance would be suspended for countries that do not make significant efforts to comply. The recent terrorist attacks in Brussels remind us that we must confront ISIS' unlimited ambition with our unlimited resolve. There is no limit to the desire terror groups like ISIS have in waging violent jihad against us. This is an unconventional fight and a never before been read chapter that must end with the cancer boldly, aggressively attacked with unlimited determination and resources from a global community that will not be run out of existence by those who terrorize the innocent. The Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act is a bipartisan measure to keep Americans safe that was long overdue to not only protect our homeland from terrorism, but also ensure the that we as a country are always prepared to combat the spread of any infectious diseases. Under my bill, a monitoring system would be put in place to screen for infectious diseases to contain and prevent any potential outbreaks. Under my bill, the Secretary of Homeland Security would be authorized to provide the necessary equipment and supplies to mitigate the risk or threat of infectious diseases, which will help quarantine viruses, such as Zika, a disease that continues to spread and was recently declared a public health emergency by the World Health Organization. There are many facets to this effort and stopping the movement of terrorists is essential. Whether we are helping stop the movement of foreign fighters or boosting intelligence and military capabilities wherever appropriate and necessary, America and our allies must win each day on behalf of our families, our countries and the free world. I will continue pushing to advance my Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act until it is signed into law. Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, and Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade.
03.28.2016	Greenport, NY – On March 25, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with administrators, physicians and nurses at Eastern Long Island Hospital (ELIH) in Greenport where he had the opportunity to listen to and discuss health care issues, both local and national. The Congressman toured the hospital as well. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, in the ELIH emergency room with hospital President and CEO, Paul Connor III, and Special Representative of Government Affairs, Neboysha Brashich.
03.24.2016	Washington, DC – On March 24, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke at the Suffolk County Alliance of Chambers’ Business Advisory Forum to provide a legislative update of his work in Congress to help grow our economy and create more good-paying private sector jobs. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with New York State Assemblymen Andrew Raia and Michael Fitzpatrick, Suffolk County Alliance of Chambers Director & Co-Chairs Gina Coletti and Robert Fonti, and other representatives and forum members.
03.24.2016	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, March 23, 2016, Representative Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) joined with members of the New York Congressional Delegation outside the U.S. Capitol to announce that they sent a joint letter to President Obama to state their opposition to the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). The letter was led by Reps. Chris Collins (R, NY-27) and Louise Slaughter (D, NY-25). In the bipartisan letter, signed by 19 Members of New York’s Congressional delegation, the lawmakers write: “We are united in our opposition to the agreement and in our belief that the TPP will harm many working and middle-class families in New York and across the country.” Congressman Zeldin said, “Yesterday I joined with colleagues from the New York Congressional delegation united in our opposition to the TPP. With over 38 million American jobs tied to trade, we must understand that trade is a driving force in our economy; however, we need a level playing field so that New York workers, families and businesses can compete and win in the global marketplace.” The letter can be found here: 3-23-16 NY delegation TPP letter.pdf
03.22.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement in response to the terror attacks in Brussels, Belgium: “My thoughts and prayers are with the victims, their families, and the people of Belgium in the wake of the horrifying terrorist attacks in Brussels, Belgium. Today is one more brutal reminder that the threat posed by Islamic terror groups is not just a threat to the Middle East. Too often, the rest of the world is reminded that globally, we must all do more to protect the innocent and defeat all who threaten peace in the name of Islam. Just last night, the House of Representatives passed my Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act. Whether we are helping stop the movement of foreign fighters or boosting intelligence and military capabilities wherever appropriate and necessary, America and our allies must win each day on behalf of our families, our countries and the free world. There is no limit to the ambition terror groups like ISIS have in waging violent jihad against us. Their ambition must be crushed through the resolve we all have in pursuing the passionate defense of our safety, freedoms and liberties.”
03.22.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, today announced that his bill, the Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2016 (H.R. 4314) passed the House of Representatives on March 21, 2016 by a vote of 371-2. The Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act would establish international border security standards to close security gaps that currently exist that allow terrorists and foreign fighters to travel internationally. The plan would establish international border security standards that would be developed in coordination with all relevant U.S. Government departments and agencies in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, Attorney General, Director of National Intelligence, and Director of the FBI. Under the plan, U.S. resources would be utilized in the most efficient way possible with a special focus on high-risk and medium-risk countries to boost security. Under this legislation, a reporting system would also be established to monitor efforts of foreign governments to combat terrorism and foreign fighter travel and to suspend foreign assistance to countries not making significant efforts to comply. Furthermore, the bill would put in place a monitoring system that would screen for infectious diseases to contain and prevent any potential outbreaks, which will help quarantine viruses by authorizing the Secretary of Homeland Security to provide the necessary equipment and supplies to mitigate the risk or threat of infectious diseases, such as Zika, a disease that has caused widespread alarm as it continues to spread across the global community. Congressman Zeldin said, “I am proud to announce that my bill, the Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2016, to protect America’s security at home and abroad, passed the House of Representatives with strong bipartisan support. Foreign fighter movement is a very serious challenge that has resulted in the well-recognized need for improved border security around the world and better information sharing between governments. The horrific terror attack in Paris that killed over 100 people showed us just how easy it is for terrorists to move undetected across borders. This attack was largely carried out by European nationals - many of whom traveled to train and fight in Syria and then later returned to Europe through Greece and Turkey. Although local authorities already knew some of the attackers, they were still able to move across borders without detection, and in some cases used fraudulent passports. It's essential that the United States works with the international community to monitor and stop the movement of terrorists abroad.” “Additionally, this legislation helps us counter the spread of infectious diseases, like Zika,” Congressman Zeldin continued. “With the recent outbreak of the mosquito borne Zika virus, which has spread at rapid rates across South America, Central America and the Caribbean, and the number of Zika cases among travelers visiting or returning to the United States, we must take action now. As evidenced with the Ebola outbreak in 2013, which decimated populations across Western Africa, if the proper effort is not implemented proactively, the consequences can be truly devastating.” “The Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2016 is a bipartisan measure to keep Americans safe that was long overdue to not only protect our homeland from terrorism, but also ensure the U.S. is always prepared to combat the spread of any infectious diseases,” Congressman Zeldin concluded. Congressman Zeldin spoke on the House floor before the bill was voted on. You can watch the video here. A copy of the bill can be found here.
03.21.2016	Mount Sinai, NY – On Friday, March 18, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended a meeting of Boy Scout Troop 1776 of Mount Sinai to discuss the constitution and being a good citizen. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with Troop 1776.
03.21.2016	Jamesport, NY — On Saturday, March 19, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the Third Annual Jamesport St Patrick's Day Parade. Pictured above, from left to right, are Suffolk County Legislator Al Krupski, Riverhead Town Councilwoman Jody Giglio, Riverhead Town Councilman Tim Hubbard, Congressman Lee Zeldin and Riverhead Town Councilman Jim Wooten.
03.21.2016	Hampton Bays, NY — On Saturday, March 19, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the Hampton Bays’ St. Patrick's Day Parade, which was sponsored by the Ancient Order of Hibernians. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with the Parade Grand Marshal, Bill Hughes, right.
03.21.2016	On the East End of Long Island, we must be committed to protecting and preserving the abundance of our natural resources that are so important to our life, culture and economy. This is an issue that is personal for all of us. For me, growing up on Long Island and enjoying the beauty of Wertheim National Wildlife Refuge, Smith Point County Park and so many other treasures of life in our area, we are constantly reminded that in order to provide each generation with that same privilege, we must be good stewards of the environment. Protecting our environment also goes hand in hand with protecting commerce in our regional economy where so many jobs and small businesses depend on scenic beaches, parks, clean water and wineries to attract visitors and economic growth. In 2015, whether it was the effort to reverse President Obama’s proposed 22% cut in funding for the Long Island Sound, opposing the misguided plan to dump Connecticut’s dredged waste into the Sound, or supporting $27 million in funding for the National Estuary Program, there were many local environmental issues worth championing. Of critical importance was the successful effort to save the Land and Water Conservation Fund after the previous Congress had allowed this program to lapse. Congress also established a permanent tax deduction for conservation easements that are essential to preserving land and farms in our region, and made progress further developing the research and use of alternative energy; much of which will take place right here on Long Island at SUNY Stony Brook and Brookhaven National Lab. Here are a few of the many other specific opportunities that exist moving forward: Stopping the sale of Plum Island (H.R. 1887). Last year, I introduced legislation, HR 1887, that would protect Plum Island and prevent a sale by the federal government to the highest bidder. This bill has bipartisan support from the entire Long Island and Connecticut delegation in both the House and Senate. Plum Island is cherished by the local community, not only as an essential resource for research, but also for its abundance in cultural, historical, ecological, and natural resources. Congress should take action to pursue a better direction for Plum Island that would allow for continued research, public access and permanent preservation. Protecting the Long Island Sound by passing the Long Island Sound Restoration and Stewardship Act (H.R. 2930). This bipartisan legislation that I introduced with Congressman Steve Israel (D, NY-3) proposes $65 million in funding per year through 2020 for a water quality and shore restoration program and additional focus, oversight and coordination of federal activities related to the restoration of the Sound. Over the years, the Long Island Sound has suffered severely from issues such as pollution, overdevelopment and the dumping of dredged materials. It’s important that this bill is passed to ensure our waterways are preserved for generations to come. Improving the management of our fisheries, by passing the EEZ Transit Zone Clarification Act (H.R. 3070) and Fluke Fairness Bill (H.R. 1888). Recreational and commercial fishing is one of the many great things about life, industry and culture here on Long Island. Both of my bills, H.R. 3070 and H.R. 1888, would make important reforms to our current fisheries laws to reinvigorate the rapidly fading traditional heritage of saltwater fishing on Long Island and elsewhere, while sacrificing none of the environmental and economic benefits of continuing to rebuild coastal fish stocks. I will keep working in Congress to make sure these two bills pass the House. With the valuable natural resources we treasure on Long Island comes a great responsibility to protect them. There is much more work still ahead to safeguard our environment, water quality, natural resources and way of life. Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) is a member of the Long Island Sound Caucus and the Congressional Shellfish Caucus in the House of Representatives.
03.18.2016	Smithtown, NY – On Friday, March 18, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited Smithtown Christian School. The Congressman spoke with the third grade class about many aspects of government, including the three branches of government and the process of a bill being passed and signed into law.
03.18.2016	Brookhaven, NY– Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, today announced $2,275,000 in federal funding to repair Sills Gully Beach in Shoreham and Gully Landing Drainage Facility in Miller Place, which were severely damaged due to high winds, heavy rains and the tidal surge during Super Storm Sandy and Hurricane Irene. The funding will be used to repair and reinforce the bluffs by installing a bulkhead. The funding will also be used to upgrade the existing storm water drainage system. Congressman Zeldin said, “Working closely with the Brookhaven Town Finance Department, Brookhaven Town Highway Department, FEMA, and the New York State Department of Homeland Security, my staff and I were able to successfully expedite the necessary federal funding to make critical repairs to Sills Gully Beach and Gully Landing Drainage Facility. As a result, Brookhaven Town will now be able to make renovations to protect, restore and strengthen the beach, so that Long Islanders can enjoy its beauty for generations to come.” Brookhaven Town Supervisor Ed Romaine said, "Superstorm Sandy was not only a south shore event. Our north shore communities were affected as well, and Sills Gully Beach and Gully Landing Road were particularly hit hard. I thank Congressman Zeldin for securing the funds so we can finally begin work to repair the damage so residents can once again safely enjoy this popular recreation spot." "Following years of shore-battering nor'easters and hurricanes, as well as Superstorm Sandy, the Town-owned drainage systems and shoreline protection at Gully Landing Road in Miller Place and Sills Gully Road in Shoreham had been so severely damaged that it was no longer serving its primary function," said Brookhaven Town Superintendent of Highways Daniel P. Losquadro. "Working with Congressman Zeldin, we were able to finally cut through the bureaucratic red tape after years of inaction and allocate the necessary federal funding to modernize our storm water infrastructure and repair badly eroded bluffs, protecting the endangered surface waters of the Long Island Sound. Shoreline protection projects such as these are critical in our efforts to maintain our shoreline and ensure its resilience." Jennifer Juengst, Board Member of the Shoreham Shore Club, said, "The funding obtained with Congressman Zeldin's efforts are a lifeline for the health of this north shore beach and will ensure that future generations of beach goers will enjoy safe summers for years to come. We are very, very grateful." Marc Mazza, Board Member of the Miller Place Homeowners Association, said, “I appreciate the hard work of Congressman Zeldin, the Town of Brookhaven, the Highway Department and Councilwoman Bonner have done for our community to get this project approved. I offer my heartfelt thanks on behalf of the Miller Place Park Homeowners Association.” The federal grant was secured through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The funding is being provided under authority of Section 406 of the Robert T. Stafford Act and will be granted directly to New York State.
03.18.2016	Washington, DC – On Tuesday, March 15, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, hosted a bipartisan Special Order on the floor of the House of Representatives, regarding veterans’ mental health, and more specifically the Congressman’s legislation to expand the PFC Joseph P. Dwyer Veteran Peer Support Program (“Dwyer Program”) to the national level (H.R. 4513) and the Fairness for Veterans Act (H.R. 4683). Also participating in Congressman Zeldin’s Special Order were Reps. Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ) and Keith Rothfus (R-PA). You can watch Congressman Zeldin’s speech here, and the full Special Order here.
03.17.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement today in response to the Obama administration’s decision to define ISIS attacks on religious minorities as genocide: “After mounting pressure from the American public and Congress, Secretary Kerry and the Obama administration finally admitted that ISIS attacks on religious minorities, who are being targeted and murdered by this terrorist group, are acts of genocide. Now, this administration must accept that the current strategy will not be enough to defeat ISIS, a group that continues to grow in strength, numbers, wealth and other resources. I believe in American exceptionalism and our ability to be strong, resolute and confident in the execution of a precise, overwhelming, and devastating blow. We must defeat the threat abroad or we will be fighting them more here at home.” On March 14, 2016, with Congressman Zeldin’s support, the House passed a resolution (H.Con. Res. 75) declaring that ISIS is committing acts of genocide by an overwhelming vote of 393-0.
03.17.2016	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, March 15, 2016, Congressman Zeldin’s EEZ Transit Zone Clarification Act (HR 3070) unanimously passed the House Natural Resources Committee with bipartisan support. The Congressman’s bill would clarify federal laws governing the management of the striped bass fishery in the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) between Montauk, New York, and Block Island, Rhode Island, allowing local control over the fishery. Between New York State waters, which end three miles off of Montauk Point, New York, and the Rhode Island boundary, which begins three miles off of Block Island, there is a small area of federally controlled water that is considered part of the EEZ. The EEZ, which extends up to 200 miles from the coast, are waters patrolled by the Coast Guard, where the United States has exclusive jurisdiction over fisheries and other natural resources. Striped bass fishing has been banned in the EEZ since 1990. Congressman Zeldin’s EEZ Transit Zone Clarification Act would permit striped bass fishing in these waters and allow for local regulations to manage this important fishery. This bill passage out of committee comes after the House Natural Resources Committee hosted a hearing on the bill in Congress on Tuesday, February 2, 2016. Congressman Zeldin also recently co-hosted a House Natural Resources Committee field hearing in Riverhead, NY, with Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT). The hearing, which was titled, “Restoring Atlantic Fisheries and Protecting the Regional Seafood Economy,” was held on December 7, 2015 to discuss important local fishing issues. Congressman Zeldin’s EEZ Transit Zone Clarification Act was discussed and Chairman Bishop was able to hear first-hand the concerns of those on Long Island who rely upon fishing as an occupation and way of life. Congressman Zeldin said, “One of the most pressing issues faced by Long Island fishermen is the urgent need to clarify the federal regulations regarding striped bass fishing in the small area of federally controlled waters between Montauk Point and Block Island, which is why I am proud to have secured the passage of this bill out of committee. Long Island striped bass fishermen have lost 60% of their traditional fishing grounds due to federal restrictions that this bill intends to reform. Fishermen should be able to legally fish for striped bass in this limited area, which they currently can in adjacent state waters. The EEZ Transit Zone Clarification Act will provide regulatory relief and more certainty to our region’s fishermen, while restoring local control to a critical fishery that must be properly managed and preserved for future generations. H.R. 3070 is common sense legislation that only impacts striped bass. It offers a simple local solution to a unique local issue. The geography of our region means that making the 15 mile journey by boat from Montauk Point to Block Island requires passing through a small strip of waters considered to be part of the EEZ. For our region’s fishermen, this shift in jurisdiction can mean the difference between a nice day on the water and committing a federal offense. The dedicated men and women who fish in these waters, and the tens of thousands of Long Islanders who depend upon the coastal economy of the East End deserve no less than the common sense reform promoted by this proposal. I look forward to this bill passing the House.” “The senseless boundaries between state and federal waters around the Block Island Sound have created confusion for local fishermen,“ Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT) said. “I thank Congressman Zeldin for his leadership on this bill. He invited the Committee to his district to hear firsthand the impacts of the regulatory confusion for local fishermen. Ultimately, Congressman Zeldin improved upon prior efforts and worked with both sides of the aisle to advance it through the Committee without objection.” The North Fork Captain’s Association said, “We believe the opening of the transition zones being considered would have a very positive outcome. By expanding the areas to fish, it would give more room for boats to spread out and cause fewer accidents. A day at sea should not be like a trip to a mall parking lot! Public safety should always be considered first.” The Recreational Fishing Alliance (RFA) said, “RFA is proud to support this important legislation for our members who fish for striped bass in these waters. The legislation will have a positive effect for fishermen and our related marine businesses when stripers are in that area while having no negative conservation effect on striped bass stocks. A big thanks to Lee Zeldin for working out this complex issue that his predecessor couldn't fix.” The Montauk Boatmen & Captains Association (MBCA) said, "The Montauk Boatmen and Captains Association, and all fishermen on Long Island and throughout New York would like to thank Representative Lee Zeldin for his strong support. No other states have this geographic anomaly of the New York-Block Island-Rhode Island transit zone; it exists only in this area because of the extended distance between Montauk Point and Block Island. We have been trying for many years to correct this problem with no success. We appreciated the Congressman’s efforts to bring Chairman Bishop (R-UT) and other influential members to Riverhead in December for a field hearing to hear our concerns firsthand, and we now applaud them for passing HR 3070 out of the committee on a bipartisan basis. The impact of sport fishing on Long Island is very important to our economy, especially in Montauk. We greatly appreciate Congressman Zeldin’s commitment on this issue and willingness to fight for Long Island fishermen.” The Connecticut Recreational Fishing Alliance (RFA) said, “The Connecticut RFA strongly endorses H.R. 3070. Congressman Zeldin’s bill eliminates a unique issue that places federal waters inside an area that is bounded by state waters. The current regulatory scenario can result in anglers being in violation of the law by the simple act of transiting these waters when returning from a fishing trip while in possession of striped bass, including recreational fishing boats from Connecticut. Allowing fishing for striped bass and possession of striped bass in this area eliminates a complex issue and allows for local control. The act does not create conflict with the Connecticut based commercial fishing fleet who can still fish these waters with a federal permit.”
03.16.2016	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, March 16, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with the Montauk School’s seventh and eighth grade class on the Speaker’s Balcony, which overlooks the National Mall, including the Washington Monument. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with some of the students from Montauk School. To schedule a tour of the United States Capitol, and other government buildings in the area, you can contact Congressman Zeldin’s DC office at (202) 225-3826, or you can visit his website at zeldin.house.gov/services/tours-and-tickets.
03.16.2016	Washington, DC – On Tuesday, March 15, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) received the Spirit of Enterprise Award from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Congressman Zeldin earned the award for his support of pro-business issues during the first session of the 114th Congress. Pictured above, from left to right, are Thomas J. Donohue, President and CEO of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and Congressman Zeldin.
03.15.2016	During my first 14 months in Congress, I have constantly heard from business owners on Long Island sharing stories about how various examples of bureaucratic red tape out of Washington has made it increasingly difficult to create more good paying, private sector jobs. The Department of Labor “Fiduciary Rule,” the EPA’s effort to put the motorsports and custom car industry out of business, and the attempt of federal regulators to impose overzealous Dodd-Frank regulations on auto lenders are just three of many new federal agency regulations that harm the business climate on Long Island and throughout our nation. As each new rule is passed, we are reminded of why it is so important for Congress to pass the Regulations for the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act (H.R. 427). Under the REINS Act, every major rule or regulation with an economic effect of $100 million or more annually would be required to be specifically approved by the House and Senate, in addition to the President, before the rule takes effect. This legislation is about smart policy and balance of power. Here are three brief examples of why the REINS Act is so important: Example #1: Many Long Islanders, when seeking something as critical as life insurance or retirement savings advice, want to go to a trusted broker who is a part of their local community. Planning for retirement and managing a family’s investment portfolio to save for college or buy a new home is an essential piece of the American dream. The Department of Labor, through its “fiduciary rule,” is shutting down that dream by overregulating independent financial advisors and life insurance brokers out of business. By imposing regulations and fees meant for larger, multi-billion dollar Wall Street firms, the one-size-fits all approach proposed by federal regulators would kill an industry that is run by small entrepreneurs and built on personal relationships. By the Labor Department’s own admission, in 2010, those individuals who did not seek or have access to investment advice suffered over $100 billion in financial losses through investment mistakes, which could have easily been avoided with the appropriate level of consultation. Saving for retirement is of crucial importance to American families and access to professional financial advice should not be hindered by an unnecessary regulation put in place by unelected agency bureaucrats creating rules that carry the force of law. Example #2: The Clean Air Act has been a resounding success and in Congress I have been an outspoken advocate for clean air and clean water on Long Island. The EPA is attempting to go around Congress, ignoring the Constitution by creating new interpretations of this law, which would hurt small and medium sized businesses. Current rules proposed by the EPA would effectively shut down the motorsports and car modification industry by imposing the same level of regulations meant for power plants and other major industries. By banning certain modifications made to cars and motorcycles, and applying these misguided regulations retroactively, hobbyists, who have invested countless time and money into their cars, would suddenly be in violation of a set of federal regulations that were never vetted by their representatives in Congress. Small and medium sized businesses on Long Island, like American Racing Headers, that supply specialty automotive parts to customers nationwide, are already seeing a reduction in business as a direct result of the threats surrounding these new rules. Example #3: The indirect auto loan market just surpassed $1 trillion, making it one of the most essential, and competitive financial markets in our economy. In a misguided change of policy, based on flawed statistics, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is attempting to shut down transparency in the auto lending market by mandating new standards that they falsely believe will increase fairness in the market. Consumers on Long Island should not be cut off from needed credit due to arbitrary government regulations. A transparent and competitive auto lending market means consumers will get the best rates, but bureaucrats in Washington want to impose strict Dodd Frank financial regulations meant for Wall Street that would shut down the indirect auto loan market so essential to main street Long Island. What has always made America so great has been the opportunity to succeed through hard work and dedication, but unfortunately today, economic opportunity is being stripped away with oppressive taxes and burdensome red tape on America’s businesses. President Obama’s first seven years have brought forth 468 regulations deemed “economically significant rules”, and that’s with just under a year still to go. (CEI) The Fiduciary Rule, the attack on the motorsports industry by the EPA, and the CFPB’s attempted overregulation of auto-lending, are just three of the rules that have made it harder for business owners to succeed in today’s economy. To address this issue, I proudly voted for the REINS Act when it passed the House last year, as well as other essential pieces of legislation to shut-down job killing red tape. This critical legislation would give Congress more oversight over the most broad and harmful regulations being implemented by federal agencies. Allowing the executive branch to implement major regulations, without Congressional oversight or input, will only further hurt the ability of our job creators to expand and create more good paying jobs. Americans should demand that Congress take the REINS to help grow our economy.
03.15.2016	Riverhead, NY – On Monday, March 14, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted an economic forum, which was held at Suffolk County Community College (SCCC) Culinary Arts Center in Riverhead. Attendees included several Chamber of Commerce leaders from around the First Congressional District. The discussion focused on recently passed and currently pending legislation concerning taxes, health care, and regulations that impact our job creators.
03.14.2016	Cutchogue, NY — On Saturday, March 12, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the 12th Annual Cutchogue St. Patrick’s Day Parade, which is jointly hosted by the Cutchogue-New Suffolk Chamber of Commerce and the Cutchogue Fire Department.
03.14.2016	St. James, NY — On Saturday, March 12, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the St. James Chamber of Commerce St. Patrick's Day Parade. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with members of the Knights of Columbus before marching in the parade.
03.14.2016	Rocky Point, NY — On Sunday, March 13, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the Rocky Point St Patrick's Day Parade hosted by the North Brookhaven Chamber of Commerce. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with his wife, Diana, and daughters, Mikalya and Arianna. Also pictured are New York State Senator Ken LaValle, Brookhaven Town Councilwoman Jane Bonner, and Assemblyman Anthony Palumbo.
03.10.2016	Patchogue, NY –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, announced today that a bill he cosponsors in the House of Representatives, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) of 2015 (H.R. 953/S. 524), was passed by the Senate to help Americans overcome the current challenges faced with drug abuse. “The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, which I am proud to support and cosponsor, is bipartisan legislation aimed at increasing treatment and recovery services, and providing the proper education and resources at a local level on Long Island and across New York State to help combat the growing drug crisis,” said Congressman Zeldin. “I’m pleased today to announce that the U.S. Senate overwhelmingly passed this bipartisan legislation in a 94-1 vote. Now, the House must act and bring this critical bill to the House floor for a vote immediately so that we can bring relief to all those affected.” The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act will provide up to $80 million in funding to help prevent and treat addiction through community-based education and preventative programs, and treatment and recovery programs. The grants made available through this bill will also provide the funding necessary to expand prescription drug monitoring programs in states. Additionally, the funding will provide our police force and emergency medical responders with higher supplies of Naloxone, a prescription drug proven to reverse an opioid overdose. “Our communities and families on Long Island have been severely impacted by the rise of prescription drug abuse and the growing epidemic of heroin,” Congressman Zeldin continued. “One of my top priorities in Congress will always be to help those coping with drug addiction by increasing treatment and recovery services, education, and stopping the influx of illegal substances.” Congressman Zeldin also cosponsors The Stop Overdose Stat (SOS) Act (H.R. 2850), which would provide an additional $25 million over a 5 year period for Naloxone production and distribution, to help increase the supply, and provide more medical professionals and families with this life saving drug. The SOS Act will also establish a preventative research task force, which will be established to research ways to prevent future overdose deaths, taking a preventative approach against drug abuse. In July of 2015, Congressman Zeldin hosted a press conference where he joined with local elected officials, community groups and concerned residents to urge support for both The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2015 and the Stop Overdose Stat (SOS) Act. The Congressman also hosted a free public community summit in November of 2015 to discuss the rise of drug abuse on Long Island, as well as treatment and prevention efforts, with a panel of parents, educators, healthcare professionals, law enforcement officials, local elected officials and recovering substance abusers.
03.10.2016	Southampton, NY – On Wednesday, March 9, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke as a guest speaker at the Hamptons Magazine’s 8th Annual Local Business Seminar and Breakfast. The Congressman discussed his work in Congress to help grow our economy and create more good paying jobs on Long Island.
03.09.2016	EAST MEADOW, NY – U.S. Representatives Lee Zeldin (NY-01), Kathleen Rice (NY-04), Peter King (NY-02) and Steve Israel (NY-03) today joined local veterans and advocates at the Veterans Memorial in Eisenhower Park calling on Congress to pass H.R. 4683, the Fairness for Veterans Act, which was recently introduced in the House by Reps. Mike Coffman (R-CO) and Tim Walz (D-MN) and has been cosponsored by all four members of the Long Island congressional delegation. In recent years, tens of thousands of service members suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) have received less than honorable discharges related to these mental health conditions. As a result, combat veterans with these “bad paper discharges” can be denied access to federally-funded benefits and health care services. The bipartisan Fairness for Veterans Act will make it easier for combat veterans to get their PTSD or TBI diagnosed and treated, as well as upgrade their discharge status by creating a presumption in their favor – so that if a combat veteran who has been diagnosed with PTSD or TBI appeals his or her discharge designation, military Discharge Review Boards (DRBs) must consider the appeal with the presumption that this condition contributed to the veteran’s discharge. The Long Island congressional delegation was joined today by Kris Goldsmith, an Iraq War veteran from Rep. Rice’s district who received a general discharge, one step below honorable, because of behavior related to his then undiagnosed PTSD. Goldsmith, along with fellow veterans of recent wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, has worked extensively to raise awareness about this issue and build support in Congress for the Fairness for Veterans Act. The Fairness for Veterans Act has earned the support of several organizations, including the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), Disabled American Veterans (DAV), Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA), Vietnam Veterans of America (VVA), United Soldiers and Sailors of America, and Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA). IAVA’s full letter of support is available here: FairnessforVeteransAct (IAVA)-HR4683.pdf Representative Lee Zeldin, member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, said, “It is so important to fight for our veterans who have fought for us. The Fairness for Veterans Act is absolutely essential for veterans with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder who were separated from military service with a less than honorable discharge. We must ensure that our nation’s most vulnerable veterans receive the care, treatment and benefits they have both earned and deserve. I will continue working with my colleagues in the House to ensure passage of this critical bill." “It’s an absolute injustice that anyone who serves our country honorably in combat and suffers from a mental health condition as a result of that service would be other-than-honorably discharged and cut off from key benefits and health care services because of actions that were directly linked to that condition,” said Representative Kathleen Rice, a member of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. “But we know that’s exactly what’s happened to tens of thousands of combat veterans in recent years who are now stuck with these bad paper discharges that can prohibit them from accessing mental health services through the VA, deny them federally-funded benefits and opportunities to advance their educations, and discourage employers from hiring them. The bipartisan Fairness for Veterans Act will make it easier for these combat veterans to appeal their discharge status, get the bad paper off their records, and get full access to the benefits and health care they’ve earned. I want to thank Kris Goldsmith, Congressmen Coffman and Walz, my fellow members from Long Island and all of our Democratic and Republican colleagues who worked together to move this bill forward, and I’ll keep working to make sure we get it passed as soon as possible with the strong bipartisan support it deserves.” “We owe it to the men and women who put themselves in harm’s way to ensure that they have the support and access to the very best in resources, treatment and outreach. The Fairness for Veterans Act will do just that and make sure our veterans are treated fairly and afforded every opportunity,” said Representative Peter King. “Our veterans should never be denied the benefits they deserve to cover mental health care needed after their service. When our men and women come home with invisible wounds of war, we need to support them and help get them back on their feet. I am proud to stand with my Long Island colleagues to support this legislation and will continue to fight to deliver for New York veterans and their families,” said Representative Steve Israel. “This bill’s introduction in today’s Congress is proof that Congress works,” said Iraq War Veteran Kris Goldsmith. “Veterans are the one thing that Republicans and Democrats, even in these hyper-partisan times, can work together to support. The Fairness for Veterans Act is a bill that would help veterans who receive less than honorable discharges gain access to the benefits that they earned while serving in combat.” Representative Zeldin recently spoke about the Fairness for Veterans Act at two Veterans Affairs Hearings. You can watch it here and here. The full text of H.R. 4683, the Fairness for Veterans Act, is available here.
03.07.2016	Brookhaven, NY – On Monday, March 7, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted an Education Task Force meeting, which was held at Brookhaven National Laboratory (BNL). The meeting agenda included a discussion of higher education and K-12 issues, the upcoming appropriations process, and pending legislation in Congress. Pictured above, from left to right, are: Ken White, Manager, Office of Educational Programs, BNL; Vanessa Herman, Assistant VP of Government and Community Relations, Pace University; Congressman Zeldin, Congressman Chris Gibson; Doon Gibbs, Laboratory Director, BNL; and, Dr. Paul Casciano, Former Superintendent, William Floyd School District.
03.07.2016	Holbrook, NY – On Saturday, March 5, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Manorville Community Ambulance Installation Dinner at Villa Lombardi’s in Holbrook. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with the Chief and President of the Manorville Community Ambulance, Lenny Schnall, right.
03.07.2016	Holbrook, NY – On Saturday, March 5, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Suffolk County Fire District Officers Association Installation Dinner. Pictured above, from left to right, are Jay Egan, Don Corkory, Congressman Zeldin, Tony Galino, Joe DeStefano, and John Dozer.
03.07.2016	Kings Park, NY – On Saturday, March 5, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) marched in the 2016 Kings Park St. Patrick’s Day Parade, which is held on the first Saturday of March every year. The Congressman is pictured above walking in the parade with New York State Assemblyman Mike Fitzpatrick, Suffolk County Comptroller John Kennedy, Suffolk County Legislator Rob Trotta, Suffolk County Legislator Leslie Kennedy and Smithtown Supervisor Patrick Vecchio.
03.07.2016	There are so many important ways that the federal government can help improve the quality of education in our schools. Some of these opportunities include rolling back the excessive amount of federally-mandated testing in schools, advancing the investment in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM), modernizing student loan debt financing, and restoring more local control of education to put parents and teachers back in charge of education, and give every child a better opportunity to succeed. As the father of twin fourth grade girls, Mikayla and Arianna, this cause is especially personal. Here are four great ways that Congress can continue this progress in 2016 and beyond: Pass the Student Testing Improvement and Accountability Act (H.R. 452). This legislation that I cosponsor would roll back the excessive amount of federally mandated testing in our schools, reducing testing to pre-No Child Left Behind levels; an important next step to shift the focus in our classrooms from testing to teaching to ensure our children never lose their love of learning. Challenging our students is important but we also must do everything in our power to set them up to succeed, not fail. We must pass this commonsense legislation so that our children’s education and well-being, not excessive federally mandated testing, are put first. Pass the Enable More Parents to Opt-Out Without Endangering Resources (EMPOWER) Act (H.R. 2382). This bill that I cosponsor would eliminate the threat that the federal government can penalize states when the testing participation rate drops to below 95 percent in any school district. Last year, with regards to testing, the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) was passed and signed into law, which included new language that now prevents the federal government from penalizing individual school districts directly for testing opt out rates, however, the state as a whole can still be penalized, which is why we must pass the EMPOWER Act. Also last year, with regards to standards, I introduced an amendment to ESSA, The Zeldin Amendment, which is now law and allows states to opt out of Common Core Standards without losing federal funding as a result; a huge legislative victory for states seeking to withdraw from Common Core. Advancing the investment in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) in our schools. In 2015, I helped pass the STEM Education Act of 2015 (H.R. 1020). This legislation provides federal funding to increase STEM programs in our schools. STEM is vital to the education of our youth and the future of our country in the 21st century; preparing students in our communities to pursue good paying jobs, which contribute to the growth of our economy, while increasing innovation, a necessary requirement for the United States to remain competitive in the global marketplace. I will continue to work in Congress during the upcoming appropriations process to secure additional funding for STEM. Modernizing student loan debt financing by passing the Earnings Contingent Education Loans (ExCEL) Act of 2015 (H.R. 3695). This bill that I introduced in Congress would replace the current broken student loan system with an individualized loan repayment program tailored to each student's needs. Estimates show that currently 40 million Americans have student debt totaling over $1.2 trillion. Young college graduates are having difficulty securing structured loans that can help them afford to get their professional lives off the ground successfully. I will continue to push for passage of the ExCEL Act to help address the growing student debt crisis. There’s so much more that can be done to improve the quality of education in America and we must continue to make bipartisan progress towards addressing these challenges to best advocate for our children.
03.04.2016	Huntington, NY — On Thursday, March 3, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Long Island Federation of Labor AFL-CIO Annual Reception. Pictured above is Congressman Zeldin, left, and the recipient of the 2016 AFL-CIO Leadership Award Dr. Sean McKay, right, President of Suffolk County Community College.
03.03.2016	Washington, DC — On Wednesday, March 2, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was presented with the National Association of State Veterans Homes' 2016 Legislator of the Year Award for his outstanding support of our nation's veterans and the State Veterans Home program. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, with Fred Sganga, left, Legislative Officer of the National Association of State Veterans Homes.
03.03.2016	Washington, DC — On Thursday, March 3, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with A.P. government students from Newfield High School on the steps of the United States Capitol. To schedule a tour of the United States Capitol, and other government buildings in the area, you can call Congressman Zeldin’s Washington, DC office at (202) 225-3826, or visit his website at zeldin.house.gov/services/tours-and-tickets.
03.03.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, is proposing a legislative fix to ensure that veterans receive immediate assistance from a trained professional when they call the Veterans Crisis Line (VCL). This push follows the release of a Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Office of Inspector General report that found that over 20 crisis calls to the Veterans Crisis Line operated by the VA in 2014 were transferred to a backup call center voicemail system and the calls were never returned. The language, which would be included in the next VA funding bill, reads as follows, “The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure that the toll-free suicide hotline under section 1720F(h) of title 38, United States Code – (1) provides to individuals who contact the hotline immediate assistance from a trained professional; and (2) adheres to all requirements of the American Assocation of Suicidology.” The American Association of Suicidology standards mandate that crisis center responders “be available to answer a dedicated phone number 24 hours a day, 7 days a week." Currently a loophole allows for calls to be transferred to a backup center, which are allowed to place callers on hold and utilize voicemail. Including the Congressman’s proposed language in the next VA funding bill would close this loophole, requiring immediate assistance for any veteran who calls the VCL or a backup center. Congressman Zeldin said, “A few weeks ago, there were disturbing reports released from the VA Office of Inspector General (OIG) that found that a number of veterans who contacted the suicide hotline at the VA were not only sent to voicemail, but some of these calls were never returned. There is no reason that a struggling veteran who calls the suicide hotline should be sent to voicemail, especially since the VA receives tens of billions of dollars each year for veterans’ health. Every single veteran should receive immediate support from a trained VA responder when they call the VCL. This is a priority for me, and I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to include this language in the next VA funding bill.”
03.02.2016	Washington, DC — On Tuesday, March 2, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met in his DC office with the New York National Guard and Air National Guard to discuss priorities for the 2016 year, including the funding needs of the 106th Air Rescue Wing based at Gabreski Airport in Southampton. Pictured above, from left to right, are Major General Patrick Murphy, Adjutant General of New York National Guard, Congressman Zeldin, and Major General Anthony German, Commander of New York Air National Guard.
03.01.2016	Washington, DC — On Tuesday, March 1, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met in his DC office with the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) to discuss local and national efforts to help veterans, which includes the Congressman’s legislation to expand the PFC Joseph P. Dwyer Veteran Peer Support Program (“Dwyer Program”) to the national level (H.R. 4513). Pictured above, from left to right, are Joe Cognitore from Rocky Point, Former Chairman of the VFW National Legislative Committee, Congressman Zeldin, Dennis Sullivan from Centereach, Senior Vice Commander for New York, and Michael Burke Jr., Vice Commander for New York.
02.29.2016	Stony Brook, NY — On Monday, February 29, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited the Long Island Museum (LIM), located in Stony Brook. The Museum is a Smithsonian affiliate that is dedicated to American history and art. Pictured above, from left to right, are Neil Watson, Executive Director, Congressman Zeldin, Joshua Ruff, Chief Curator, and Deirdre Doherty, Director of Development and Corporate Relations.
02.29.2016	Washington, DC – After Iran’s disputed elections, Congressmen Lee Zeldin (R-N.Y.), Mike Pompeo and Frank LoBiondo (R-N.J.) released the following statement noting the Iranian government’s continued delay in responding to the lawmakers’ visa applications, after it missed its own, self-imposed deadline. At the beginning of the month, the three lawmakers submitted visa applications to travel to Iran to observe its elections and accomplish a number of other items, including appointments with American hostages and visits to three nuclear facilities. You can read more about it here. “It’s unfortunate that Iran has not yet granted our request for visas to observe Iran’s election and for other productive purposes. The American people and rest of the free world still deserve first hand confirmation of what present day reality is in Iran. I look forward to Iran showing that it is a partner in peace by issuing our visas so that we can meet with Iranian leadership, visit nuclear sites, and meet with American hostages,” said Zeldin, a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. “Sadly, Iran’s elections were a sham. Because the fanatical Ayatollah holds ultimate power, February 26 was more of a selection of the next group of radicals by the current radicals, than a true election by the people. Iranian state television has declared a national victory for the hardliners—politicians who declared that Israelis ‘aren’t human’ and who called for the execution of the pro-democracy Green Movement leaders were selected. Our straightforward and sincere visa applications have been met with mockery and delay from Iran, revealing this regime’s desire to hide from the American public. I am hopeful that the next U.S. president will critically examine the utility of President Obama’s nuclear deal and put America’s interests ahead of political legacy,” said Pompeo, a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. “In this supposed ‘new era of openness and cooperation,’ it is disappointing – but not surprising – that our request to visit Iran and monitor these elections was met with a closed door. Furthermore, with the implementation of the nuclear deal and with Americans still detained in Tehran, it is perplexing why the Obama Administration refuses to advocate on behalf of our official Congressional visit to Iran on such critical national security issues. From my position on the House Intelligence Committee, I will continue vigorous oversight of agreements the Obama Administration enters into with Iran, despite disapproval by Congress and the American people,” said LoBiondo, Chairman of the House CIA Subcommittee.
02.29.2016	Mattituck, NY– Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, today announced $349,335.28 in federal funding to repair the Peconic Bay Shoreline Bulkhead and the parking lot at Veterans Beach in Mattituck Park District; both of which were severely damaged during Super Storm Sandy. Congressman Zeldin said, “When Superstorm Sandy hit, our communities on Long Island were devastated. Veterans Beach in Mattituck Park District was one area that was severely impacted, leaving the parking lot and bulkhead damaged and in need to significant repair. Working closely with Mattituck Park District, my staff and I were able to successfully secure the necessary federal funding to repair and restore the damaged infrastructure at Veterans Beach. This is funding that was long overdue. Through the federal funding secured, Mattituck Park District will now be able to fund the necessary renovations to protect, restore and strengthen our local community so that Long Island can rebuild stronger than before.” New York State Senator Ken LaValle said, “It’s a pleasure working with Congressman Zeldin to protect and preserve our valuable shoreline. When all levels of government work together, we can continue to make great strides in our efforts to protect our precious environment. Congressmen Zeldin’s achievement in securing federal funds to repair Veteran’s Beach illustrates his commitment to our communities.” Southold Town Supervisor Scott Russell said, “I am pleased that, yet again, Congressman Zeldin has come through for the residents of Southold Town. Veterans Beach is an important asset to the community and this money is key to making sure we can all enjoy it for years to come.” “This is a well-used, public park providing waterfront access,” said Legislator Al Krupski, whose district includes Veterans Beach. “Thanks to Congressman Zeldin, this relieves a financial burden from the Mattituck Park District.” Mike Ryan, Commissioner of Mattituck Park District, said, “The residents of the Mattituck Park District have been extremely well served by Congressman Zeldin’s office. Super Storm Sandy had a severe impact on our Peconic Bay Shoreline Bulkhead. The Congressman’s office rescued our stalled application for FEMA, and saved our residents the tremendous burden of funding this restoration out of pocket. To me, this was a refreshing experience of how our branches of local, state and federal government are supposed to work. We are very fortunate to reside in such a unique area, and enjoy access to some even more unique parkland. It is through efforts such as this which will ensure those Parklands to be there for generations to come.” The federal grant was secured through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
02.29.2016	Generations of U.S. military veterans alive today have endured circumstances that are unimaginable to many Americans. As a result of these experiences, many of our service members experience various disciplinary issues while serving, which could lead to a less than honorable discharge. Many of the actions resulting in discharge are connected to Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), which often goes undiagnosed. Presently, service members who have separated from the armed services after receiving a less than honorable discharge are not entitled to many benefits offered by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). In many cases, they aren’t entitled to any benefits at all. Often times, these service members struggle with PTSD, but lack the resources to receive a proper diagnosis. Without this diagnosis, it is impossible for a veteran to appeal their discharge status to possibly recuperate benefits that they were rightfully entitled to as a result of their service. Since 2009, the Army has separated at least 22,000 combat veterans who have been diagnosed with PTSD, TBI, or other mental health challenges. This number does not include those veterans who are suffering but have not yet been diagnosed. Something must be done in order to address this challenge facing so many of our service members. This is a trend that must be reversed immediately. In the coming days, I will be introducing bipartisan legislation in Congress, “The Fairness for Veterans Act,” with Long Island Representatives Peter King and Kathleen Rice to help the most vulnerable of our service members. The Fairness for Veterans Act will allow veterans with less than honorable discharges to receive access to screening services at the VA for the purpose of diagnosing mental health disorders. This diagnosis is absolutely essential for the veteran as it will show that he or she received a service-connected injury that could explain why they were separated from the armed forces initially. With a diagnosis for a service connected disability comes greater access to VA services, as well as the ability to appeal a discharge status. Through this legislation, many more veterans could have access to important aspects of VA healthcare, educational and employment services allowing these individuals to further their post military lives. Serving our nation’s veterans is a full time commitment; one that I do not take lightly. The Fairness for Veterans Act is an essential and commonsense piece of legislation to improve the quality of life for those who have sacrificed so much for our country. We must ensure that our nation’s most vulnerable receive the care, treatment and benefits they both earned and deserve. Congressman Lee Zeldin, an Army veteran who continues to serve today as a Major in the Army Reserves, represents the First Congressional District of New York. In Congress, Rep. Zeldin serves on the House Veterans Affairs Committee. His district encompasses most of Suffolk County, which has the highest concentration of veterans in New York State, and second highest concentration of veterans in all counties across the country.
02.26.2016	Washington, DC — On Thursday, February 25, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met in his DC office with volunteer advocates for the environment from Suffolk County who are part of the Garden Club of America. Topics of discussion included protecting the environment and Long Island water quality, as well as the Congressman’s legislation to protect Plum Island (H.R. 1887). Pictured above, from left to right, are Hollis Forbes from East Hampton, Jackie Quillen from East Hampton, Beverly Kazickas from East Hampton, Congressman Zeldin, Christa Amato from St. James, Jennifer Lawrence from St. James, and Mary Kelberg from Westhampton.
02.26.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, spoke on the House floor last night in favor of keeping open the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. You can watch Congressman Zeldin’s floor speech here.
02.25.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, today questioned Secretary of State John Kerry regarding the Iran Nuclear Agreement during a committee hearing. You can watch it here. While the Obama Administration says the Iran Nuclear Deal is based on verification, not on trust, Secretary Kerry admitted that he still has not read the verification agreement between the IAEA and Iran, nor has he secured Iran's signature on the deal. He also stated that the Iran Nuclear Agreement is not a treaty or an executive agreement. He instead says it is a "political commitment." During Congressman Zeldin's questioning, Secretary Kerry also didn't refute reports that Iran is responsible for collecting some of their own soil samples and inspecting some of their own nuclear sites. Earlier this week, Congressman Zeldin received a letter from the State Department, regarding the Iran Nuclear Deal, which you can read more about here.
02.24.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released today a response letter he received from the State Department regarding the Iran Nuclear Agreement. After Secretary of State John Kerry's July 28, 2015 appearance in front of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Zeldin sent a follow up letter to Secretary Kerry on December 7, 2015, requesting additional information. A copy of Congressman Zeldin's December 7, 2015 letter can be found here: 12.07.2015 Letter to Secretary of State John Kerry.pdf The State Department then responded in writing on February 22, 2016, which can be read here: 2.22.2016 Secretary of State John Kerry Response.pdf "In the letter I just received this week, the State Department admits that the Iran Nuclear Deal has not been signed yet by Iran, calling it a 'political commitment', and not a treaty or executive agreement," said Congressman Zeldin. "As a matter of fact, the only reference to an 'agreement' existing is the mysterious side deals between the IAEA and Iran. These side deals outline the very important verification regime to implement the Iran deal. I am not aware of a single American having seen or read these side deals even though they undoubtedly exist and are required by law to be submitted to Congress. It has been reported publicly that these side deals shockingly allow Iran to collect its own soil samples and inspect some of their own nuclear sites." In this week's letter, the State Department said, referring to the Iran Nuclear Agreement, "It’s success relies on the unprecedented monitoring and verification measures we have put in place." Referencing "unprecedented IAEA monitoring and surveillance", the State Department further writes, Iran undertook "legally binding obligations under the Additional Protocol to Iran's Safeguards Agreement with the IAEA." For more information, the "Iran Safeguards Agreement" is linked on the IAEA website at https://www.iaea.org/newscenter/focus/iran; however, the link for the "Iran Safeguards Agreement" takes you to a message on the next page that says "sorry, the page you wanted isn't here." Congressman Zeldin then said the following, "Who knows if even the President of the United States has asked for and read the verification regime as outlined in the side deals between the IAEA and Iran. During the July 28, 2015 House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing with Secretary Kerry, Secretary Jack Lew, and Secretary Earnest Moniz, all three secretaries admitted to not having seen the verification agreement between the IAEA and Iran. The President has made it crystal clear that the Iran Nuclear Agreement is not based on trust, but is instead based on verification. How do you support a deal based on verification when you don't know what the verification is?" “President Obama signed off on tens of billions of dollars of sanctions relief to the Iranians and didn't even ask for a signature from the Iranians on anything. Deals not based on trust shouldn't rely on a wink and a nod,” Congressman Zeldin concluded.
02.24.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), announced today that his request to criminally investigate the collapse of Health Republic of New York has been sent to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ). On December 7, 2015, Congressman Zeldin sent a letter to U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch, calling for a criminal investigation into the creation, operation and demise of Health Republic of New York. On February 17, 2016, the DOJ responded to the Congressman in writing that the request has been sent to the FBI. You can view a copy of the DOJ's response letter here: 02.17.2016 DOJ Response letter to the Health Republic collapse.pdf Congressman Zeldin said, “I have been calling for a criminal investigation into the creation, operation and demise of Health Republic of New York. After sending a formal request to the Department of Justice, I just received word back that my request has been sent to the FBI. There have been reports that Health Republic may have filed false financial reports. Physicians, hospitals and pharmacies are owed hundreds of thousands of dollars in reimbursable expenses and over 200,000 individuals and businesses in New York lost insurance coverage unexpectedly, including 11,000 in my home county of Suffolk. It's important that this case is reviewed to determine if any wrongdoing took place so that there is justice and accountability.”
02.23.2016	Washington, DC – On Tuesday, February 23, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement in advance of President Obama’s announcement of plans to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba: “President Obama’s decision to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay and send terrorists back home overseas, and even bring high-risk terrorists to detention centers here in the U.S., is a dangerous political move that could not come at a worse time as terrorist groups like ISIS continue to spread across the Middle East, Europe and the rest of the Western world. The facility at Guantanamo Bay has not only served as a place to keep some of the most dangerous terrorists in the world, but also as a tactical and strategic facility where intelligence is gathered to prevent potential attacks against our country and ensure U.S. national security. Make no mistake, this is about President Obama's legacy, not American security."
02.23.2016	Center Moriches, NY— On Monday, February 22, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited Center Moriches High School, where he addressed a group of juniors and seniors who are currently enrolled in either the AP U.S. History class, or the “State and Local Government and Politics” class, which is offered for credit as a program through the Excelsior Program of Suffolk County Community College. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with the teachers, Mr. Thomas Schiavoni and Mr. Richard Roberts, and their students.
02.22.2016	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released today the framework of his “New Era of American Strength” agenda for 2016 and beyond. “It is such an honor to be leading the Fighting First in Congress.” ~ Congressman Zeldin. Recapping a few of Representative Zeldin’s 2015 Victories for NY-1: Rep. Zeldin’s Common Core proposal was passed and signed into law; A 5 year, fully-funded transportation bill, including Rep. Zeldin’s Safe Bridges Act, was passed and signed into law; Rep. Zeldin led the successful effort to establish a new veterans health care clinic in Manorville; The Zadroga Act was permanently re-authorized for our 9/11 first responders; The Medical Device Tax was stopped for 2 years; 2,000 cases were resolved in favor of NY-1 constituents. “We are now in 2016, and it's time to pursue a new era of American strength, regaining the optimism that we can overcome the complex challenges facing our nation,” said Congressman Zeldin. Congressman Zeldin’s “New Era of American Strength” Agenda Goals: Protecting America’s Security at Home and Abroad; Helping Grow Our Economy; Supporting Our Veterans and First Responders; Improving the Quality of Education; Repairing Our Nation’s Infrastructure; Improving Healthcare in America; and Safeguarding our Environment Protecting America’s Security at Home and Abroad: Stopping foreign fighter travel by passing his Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2015 (H.R. 4314); Working with House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committees to pass legislative solutions to strengthen U.S. border security and interior enforcement; Defeating ISIS and other terrorist threats, correcting a flawed Iran Nuclear Agreement and strengthening America’s relationships with our allies. Helping Grow Our Economy: Advancing the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act (H.R. 427); Working with colleagues to draft a comprehensive legislative proposal to reform and simplify our tax code; Passing a Balanced Budget Amendment to the U.S. Constitution (H.J. Res. 55). Supporting Our Veterans and First Responders: Expanding nationally the PFC Joseph Dwyer Veteran Peer Support Program (H.R. 4513, Sponsored by Rep. Zeldin); Passing other Rep. Zeldin bills to help veterans, including H.R. 2460, which would provide funding for adult day care for veterans; as well as ensuring his bills that previously passed the House are signed into law, including H.R. 1569 to protect the benefits of deceased veterans and H.R. 1187, which would eliminate the loan limit that the VA can guarantee for a veteran. Providing assistance for our police, fire and other first responders by passing H.R. 343, the Volunteer Emergency Responders Tax Deduction Act, and H.R. 2752, the Volunteer Responder Incentive Protection Act. Improving the Quality of Education: Rolling back the excessive amount of federally-mandated testing in schools by passing the Student Testing Improvement and Accountability Act (H.R. 452), which Congressman Zeldin cosponsors; Advancing the investment in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) in our schools; Modernizing student loan debt financing by passing Rep. Zeldin’s Earnings Contingent Education Loans (ExCEL) Act of 2015 (H.R. 3695). Repairing Our Nation’s Infrastructure: Breaking ground on new infrastructure improvement projects for our barrier beaches and waterways working with the Army Corps of Engineers; Funding improvements of Long Island overpasses and bridges that were made eligible as a result of Congressman Zeldin’s Safe Bridges Act (H.R. 3168); Upgrading infrastructure at Islip MacArthur Airport to help secure additional airline carriers and service. Improving Healthcare in America: Continuing to advance the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015 (H.R. 3762), which would repeal and replace Obamacare; as well as continuing the call for a Department of Justice investigation into Health Republic of New York, the failed NYS health exchange co-op; Helping those coping with mental health issues and/or drug addiction to increase treatment and recovery services, educate, and stop the influx of illegal substances, which includes passing the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2015 (H.R. 953), the Stop Overdose Stat (SOS) Act (H.R. 2850), and the Helping Families in Mental Crisis Act (H.R. 2646), all cosponsored by the Congressman; as well as funding research to deliver lifesaving or life improving cures and treatments, which includes getting the 21st Century Cures Act (H.R. 6), legislation that the Congressman cosponsors that passed the House, signed into law; Protecting people with disabilities by passing his bill, H.R. 3229, to secure the essential specialized power wheelchairs and related services relied on by people with disabilities and their families. Safeguarding our Environment: Stopping the sale of Plum Island (H.R. 1887); Protecting the Long Island Sound by passing the Long Island Sound Restoration and Stewardship Act (H.R. 2930); Improving the management of our fisheries, by passing his EEZ Clarification Act (H.R. 3070) and Fluke Fairness Bill (H.R. 1888). “I will continue doing everything in my power to bring home more victories for our congressional district to better our community, state and nation. There are a number of opportunities presented on any given day to move us forward in a positive direction and it’s such an honor to be leading this effort for the Fighting First in Congress,” concluded Congressman Zeldin.
02.21.2016	Patchogue, NY – On Saturday, February 20, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Shirley Community Ambulance Installation Dinner at Mediterranean Manor in Patchogue. Pictured above, from left to right, are Assemblyman Dean Murray, Shirley Community Ambulance Chief Steve Sherlock, Brookhaven Councilman and Deputy Town Supervisor Dan Panico, County Legislator Kate Browning, Brookhaven Town Supervisor Ed Romaine, Congressman Zeldin and Brookhaven Councilman Michael Loguercio.
02.21.2016	Holbrook, NY – On Saturday, February 20, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the Setauket Fire Department Installation Dinner at Villa Lombardi's in Holbrook. Pictured above, from left to right, are First Assistant Chief William Rohr, Congressman Zeldin, Chief Thomas Makarius and Second Assistant Chief Paul Rodier.
02.21.2016	Patchogue, NY – On Friday, February 19, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke at a Long Island Board of Realtors (LIBOR) meeting at Lombardi’s on the Bay in Patchogue. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above addressing the crowd.
02.21.2016	The mosquito borne Zika virus has spread at rapid rates across South America, Central America and the Caribbean – infecting individuals in more than 25 countries. Zika has caused widespread alarm across the global community after Brazil reported a rise in the number of cases of microcephaly, a disease that leads tragically to a baby being born with an unusually small head and brain damage; affecting thousands of small children in Latin America. The awful birth defects associated with the virus, and the lack of preventative treatments, have resulted in authorities taking drastic measures in several Latin American countries, including El Salvador, Colombia and Ecuador, where women are being urged to stop having kids altogether. What is so concerning about the Zika virus is how easily it can spread. The virus is spread not only through a mosquito bite, but also by contact with infected blood or sexual contact. Furthermore, there is currently no vaccine to prevent, or any medicine to treat, the virus. All of these factors have led the World Health Organization to declare the Zika virus a public health emergency. Confirmed cases of the Zika virus have been popping up across the U.S., including at least 3 confirmed cases here in Suffolk County. Recent estimates show that 200 million Americans live in areas that could see Zika spread through mosquitos during the warmer months. With the recent outbreaks and the number of Zika cases among travelers visiting or returning to the United States, it’s only a matter of time before this becomes a wide spread epidemic right here at home. As evidenced with the Ebola virus epidemic in 2013, which decimated populations across Western Africa, if the proper infrastructure and funding is not put into place before an outbreak hits, the consequences can be truly devastating. That is why we must act now. I recently introduced legislation, the Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2016, H.R. 4314, which passed the House Foreign Affairs Committee with bipartisan support on January 7, 2016. One critical aspect of this legislation is that the bill would put in place a monitoring system that would screen for infectious diseases abroad in order to contain and prevent any potential outbreaks. The bill also helps quarantine the virus, authorizing the Secretary of Homeland Security to provide the necessary equipment and supplies to mitigate the risk or threat of infectious diseases, such as Zika. In addition to screening for infectious diseases, my bill would also establish a plan to close security gaps that currently exist that allow terrorists and foreign fighters to travel internationally, as well as establish international border security standards. Furthermore, a reporting system would be established to monitor efforts of foreign governments to combat terrorism and foreign fighter travel and to suspend foreign assistance to countries not making significant efforts to comply. Moreover, U.S. surplus equipment and supplies would be sent abroad to boost security. The Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2016 is a measure that is long overdue to not only protect our homeland from terrorism, but also ensure the U.S. is always prepared to combat the spread of any infectious diseases. I will continue to push for the full passage of my Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act in the House, and urge my colleagues to bring this bipartisan bill to the House floor for a vote. Protecting America’s security at home and abroad remains one of my highest priorities in Congress. Congressman Lee Zeldin, a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, represents the First Congressional District of New York.
02.19.2016	Southampton, NY – On Thursday, February 18, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) spoke at Rogers Memorial Library in Southampton. The Congressman discussed his work in Congress for the East End of Long Island. Attendees were then able to ask the Congressman any questions they wanted to have answered. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above addressing the crowd.
02.19.2016	Southampton, NY – On Thursday, February 18, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited the Southrifty Drug Store in Southampton where owner and pharmacist, Bob Grisnik, and his partner, Thomas McAbee, provided the Congressman with an overview and demonstration of their Big Red Medical Disposal Box. The box is located in 17 stores throughout the First Congressional District and is designed to properly dispose of medical waste and unused medications. Pictured above, from left to right, are Congressman Zeldin, Robert DeLuca, whose company Lab Crafters manufactures the disposal box, Bob Griznik, and Thomas McAbee.
02.18.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, released the following statement after a Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Office of Inspector General report found that in 2014 over 20 crisis calls to the Veterans Crisis Line operated by VA were transferred to a voicemail system and the calls were never returned: “Recent reports from the VA Office of Inspector General (IG) show that suffering veterans who are contacting the suicide hotline at the VA are not only being sent to voicemail, but some never even receive a call back. This is gross incompetence, completely unacceptable and in need of an urgent and immediate correction. The latest IG report is just further evidence of the failures of our VA system, which has included overmedicating patients, secret wait lists, and backlogs of disability claims and appeals. Even more egregious are reports of insufficient staffing numbers for patient advocate offices which serve veterans seeking mental health counseling. When a veteran reaches out for help, there is no reason whatsoever that the veteran should not at least receive a call back. With tens of billions of dollars spent each year on veteran healthcare, if a veteran is in crisis and is reaching out for help, there is no justifiable reason why the VA cannot afford to have a dedicated staff member present to answer calls for veterans in crisis. This is inexcusable. We must continue to reform our VA system to ensure each and every veteran is receiving the care they desperately need and deserve. I will never stop fighting to protect and support our military heroes; our veterans deserve the highest quality of care at our VA facilities.”
02.18.2016	Sag Harbor, NY – On Tuesday, February 16, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) was a guest again on WLNG (92.1 FM), a local east end radio station, with host Dan Duprey. Residents were able to call in and ask questions, as well as discuss their concerns with Congressman Zeldin. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, right, with radio host Dan Duprey, left, in the Sag Harbor studio.
02.18.2016	Patchogue, NY – On Thursday, February 18, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, was presented with a “Thank You” plaque from the Coalition Against Bigger Trucks (CABT) for his efforts in Washington, DC to keep bigger trucks off of our local roads. The Congressman was recognized for his votes against allowing longer and heavier trucks on our roads; as well as his work to secure the permanent removal of the Cross Sound Ferry trucking plan from the Regional Freight Plan of NYMTC and the America’s Marine Highway Program. This was a misguided trucking provision that would have rerouted thousands of trucks from I-95 in Connecticut to the North Fork of Long Island via the Cross Sound Ferry. Pictured above, from left to right, are Riverhead Town Police Chief David Hegermiller, Congressman Lee Zeldin, and Southold Town Police Chief Martin Flatley.
02.18.2016	Patchogue, NY – On Wednesday, February 17, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with local seniors from the Coalition for Medicare Choices. During the meeting, Congressman Zeldin discussed his work in Congress to protect and preserve Medicare. The seniors discussed how the Medicare Advantage program is helping improve their quality of life.
02.18.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Committee on Veterans Affairs, released a statement in response to the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) decision to block the removal of Albany Stratton VA Medical Center Director, Linda Weiss. Congressman Zeldin released the following statement: “Our veterans deserve the highest quality of care. Poor performing employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs, especially upper management, must be removed. Reforming our VA system and ensuring accountability is essential to protecting our veterans, and improving their quality of life and care. While I believe that 99% of VA employees genuinely care about the work they do and want to help veterans, we must ensure that the other 1% of those employees who are not acting in the best interest of veterans are held accountable. The VA must have the necessary resources and flexibility to hold poor performing employees accountable. Not only are the misdoings within the VA hurting our veterans, but tax dollars have been blindly misspent due to the lack of accountability. When it comes to our veterans, there is so much more we can do to improve their quality of life and care, and it starts with VA accountability.”
02.16.2016	Last year, President Obama presented Congress with a proposed budget that completely ignored one of the nation’s most populated and popular watersheds— the Long Island Sound. Here we are now in 2016, President Obama’s final year in office, and we must relive last year’s fight in order to protect our waterways. Today, the Long Island Sound, which borders the states of both New York and Connecticut, provides a diverse ecosystem with more than 170 species of fish, over 1,200 invertebrates and many different species of migratory birds; however, the Long Island Sound is not just a cultural and natural treasure, but also essential to the everyday economy and livelihood of millions of Long Islanders. The Sound is home to more than 9 million people living in the coastal communities around the Sound, and over 24 million living within 50 miles of the Sound. Revenue generated by the Sound contributes to the overall and much larger Long Island Sound Basin. According to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the economic value of the Basin’s natural capital is estimated to be anywhere from $17 billion to $37 billion in one year. From activities such as sport and commercial fishing, boating, recreation and tourism, it is estimated to bring in over $8 billion a year for the Long Island region. Furthermore, reports that detail the economic value of the Sound estimate that at least 191,000 jobs stem from this valuable estuary; either directly or indirectly. Moreover, our local schools and colleges work in the Long Island Sound, studying ways to improve its cleanliness and helping to preserve its countless benefits. The Sound is also our gateway to New England and a crucial means of transportation for thousands on any given day. While the Great Lakes and Chesapeake get special attention in the President’s budget, the Long Island Sound, a true Long Island treasure, is nothing more than an afterthought. This is unacceptable; especially since over the years, the Long Island Sound has suffered severely from issues such as pollution, overdevelopment and the dumping of dredged materials. Currently, restoration for the Long Island Sound is funded at $3.94 million through the Long Island Sound Program; however the Obama administration’s proposed budget for fiscal year 2017 would cut that number by over $1 million. The Long Island Sound will not be able to overcome the many challenges it faces with such a dramatic reduction in essential funding. Last year, when President Obama proposed a 22% cut to the Sound, I successfully fought on a bipartisan basis to reverse the proposed cut. I’ve also continued to oppose the misguided plan to dump Connecticut’s dredged waste into this critical waterway. Long Island cannot be a dumping ground for any questionable waste dredged out of Connecticut rivers. Additionally, I joined with Congressman Steve Israel (D-NY) to introduce bipartisan legislation in the House, the Long Island Sound Restoration and Stewardship Act (H.R.2930), to ensure the Sound is protected and restored for generations to come. Our bill proposes $65 million in funding per year through 2020 for a water quality and shore restoration program and additional focus, oversight and coordination of federal activities related to the restoration of the Sound. In addition, I was proud to support $27 million in funding for the National Estuary Program last year to protect Long Island’s natural estuaries, including the Long Island Sound. With valuable natural treasures like the Long Island Sound, comes a great responsibility to protect them. We must all work together to ensure our waterways are preserved for generations to come. Congressman Lee Zeldin, a member of the Long Island Sound Caucus in the House of Representatives, represents the First Congressional District of New York. Congressman Zeldin is the lead Republican sponsor of the Long Island Sound Restoration and Stewardship Act in the House of Representatives.
02.13.2016	Patchogue, NY –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) released the following statement on the passing of U.S. Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia: “Tonight, our country mourns the loss of Justice Antonin Scalia, who served in our nation’s highest court for over three decades, defending our Constitution and the principles our nation was founded upon. Many admired his intelligence and character; Justice Scalia’s passing is a true loss for our country. I extend my deepest condolences to the family of Justice Scalia.”
02.12.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, announced today that the entire Long Island delegation, Congresswoman Kathleen Rice (D-NY), Congressman Peter King (R-NY), and Congressman Steve Israel (D-NY), have all signed on as co-sponsors of his legislation to expand the PFC Joseph P. Dwyer Veteran Peer Support Program (“Dwyer Program”) to the national level (H.R. 4513). In 2012, while serving in the NYS Senate, Congressman Zeldin created the Dwyer Program, a peer-to-peer support program for veterans suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI). PFC Joseph Dwyer, from Mount Sinai, New York, served in Iraq and received nationwide recognition for a photograph that went viral (view here) showing him cradling a wounded Iraqi boy, while his unit was fighting its way up to the capital city of Baghdad. Sadly, after returning home and struggling with PTSD, PFC Dwyer died in 2008 and left behind a young widow, Matina, and two year old daughter, Meaghan. Created in his honor, the Dwyer Program was initially launched in the counties of Suffolk, Jefferson, Saratoga and Rensselaer, and has since expanded to over a dozen counties in New York, including Nassau County. Congressman Zeldin's bill, which he introduced in Congress this week, would authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to make grants to state and local entities to carry out peer-to-peer mental health programs; to take what has been accomplished in New York and expand it nationally. Congressman Zeldin said, “Expanding the PFC Joseph P. Dwyer Veteran Peer Support Program, which is currently operating in both Nassau and Suffolk counties, to all counties in the U.S. will ensure that every veteran will eventually have access to a peer-to-peer support group. With the VA reporting that an estimated 22 veterans a day commit suicide, a national expansion is long overdue. I thank the entire Long Island Congressional Delegation for working together in this fight, and look forward to passing this bill and bring much-needed support and assistance to our veterans and their families across the United States.” “As a member of House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, there is nothing more important to me than ensuring that the brave men and women who have served our country get the resources and support they need to live long, healthy and successful lives after leaving the military,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “With more and more veterans returning home with PTSD and traumatic brain injuries, we need to expand access to innovative initiatives like the PFC Joseph Dwyer program, which provides veterans with peer-to-peer support programs as they battle to overcome these tragic and potentially deadly conditions. Our veterans have made tremendous sacrifices for our country, and we have an obligation to honor those sacrifices by serving them and their families as they have served us. I thank Congressman Zeldin for introducing this legislation and I hope that Congress will move quickly to give this bill the bipartisan support it deserves.” Congressman Steve Israel said, “We are losing too many brave men and women each day to the wounds of war that often go unnoticed. I am proud to support expanding programs for veterans in New York and across the country that will provide the care and services that they and their families deserve.” Congressman Peter King said, “We owe it to the men and women who put themselves in harm’s way to ensure they have the support and access to the very best in quality mental health resources, treatment and outreach. This legislation will go a long way to doing just that.” Earlier this week, Congressman Zeldin spoke on the House floor in support of the bill. You can watch his speech here.
02.11.2016	Washington, DC –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), Member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, and two Veterans Affairs Subcommittees: the Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs, and the Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity, announced today that his bill, The Flexible VA Loan Guarantee Act (H.R. 1187), which was packaged into H.R. 3016, the Veterans Employment, Education, and Healthcare Improvement Act, passed the House of Representatives this week with unanimous bipartisan support. The Flexible VA Loan Guarantee Act would eliminate the loan limit or the “maximum guarantee amount” of a loan that the VA can guarantee for a veteran, providing the VA with the flexibility to determine the appropriate limit for all veterans' loans. The bill, which can be found here, has bipartisan support in Congress, with co-sponsors Congresswoman Kathleen Rice (D-NY) and Congressman Mark Takano (D-CA). “The Flexible VA Loan Guarantee Act is a commonsense VA reform that will help countless veterans across the country,” said Congressman Zeldin. “Providing the VA with the flexibility they need to determine the appropriate limit for veterans’ loans will be extremely helpful for veterans who live in areas with a high cost of real estate, such as Long Island. Many Suffolk County veterans called my office concerned about securing VA home loans given the limits under current law. I am happy to see the bill pass the House with such overwhelming bipartisan support, knowing that thousands of Long Island veterans will benefit from this bill.” Earlier this week, Congressman Zeldin introduced legislation in Congress to expand the PFC Joseph P. Dwyer Veteran Peer Support Program (“Dwyer Program”) to the national level (H.R. 4513). You can read more about it here. Congressman Zeldin's other veterans related legislation include: H.R. 2460, which would provide funding for adult day care for veterans; and the Veterans Estate Transfer to Survivors Act, or the VETS Act (H.R. 1569), which passed the House in July of 2015. Congressman Zeldin continued, “One of my main priorities in Congress is improving the quality of life and care for our veterans. It’s important that after laying their lives on the line, our veterans receive access to resources to improve their quality of life following their military service. There is so much more we can do to improve life for our veterans and I will continue this important fight in Congress.”
02.10.2016	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, February 10, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met in Washington, DC with Veterans Employment and Training Service (VETS), an agency within the Department of Labor that is dedicated to serving veteran’s employment needs by preparing veterans for meaningful careers, providing employment resources and expertise, and protecting their employment rights. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with Former Congressman and VETS Assistant Secretary, Mike Michaud, right.
02.10.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Rep. Mike Pompeo (R-Kan.), member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and Rep. Frank LoBiondo (R-N.J.), Chairman of the House CIA Subcommittee, today released the following statement after the Iranian government missed its own, self-imposed deadline for responding to the three lawmakers’ visa applications. Last week, Zeldin, Pompeo, and LoBiondo hand-delivered visa applications to the Iranian Interests Section in Washington, D.C. for the purpose of traveling to Iran to observe its elections on February 26, and to accomplish a number of agenda items, including appointments with American hostages, visits to Iranian nuclear facilities, updates on Iran’s recent ballistic missile tests, and an IRGC briefing on the detention of 10 U.S. Navy sailors. The three Congressmen released the following joint statement: “The Deputy Director of the Iranian Interests Section personally committed to respond by February 8, 2016 to each of our requests to travel to Iran. We have yet to receive any response. Our regret that Iran has failed to live up to its own commitment is compounded by the fact that several high-ranking Iranian government officials – including Foreign Minister Zarif’s spokesman – have attacked us in the press. “With the implementation of the nuclear deal, we seek to hold both our government and the Islamic Republic of Iran accountable. As President Obama bends to Iran’s will and weakens U.S. counterterrorism law – ignoring the will of Congress, and the law he himself signed – the need for congressional oversight increases and the burden on Iran to allow such oversight is increasingly in its best interests. “If Iran refuses to permit Americans to validate that Iran is honoring its commitments, the American people and the international business community have reason to doubt the seriousness and long-term viability of this deal. “In just over two weeks, Iran will hold elections. We still hope that our requests will be granted, and that the Iranian people will be able to determine the future of their country in free and fair elections.”
02.10.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, today urged House colleagues to bring his bill, the Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2016 (H.R. 4314), to a vote on the House floor to protect against the spread of infectious diseases, such as the Zika virus, which has been confirmed in over 25 countries. The Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2016, which passed the House Foreign Affairs Committee with bipartisan support, would, among other key components, put in place a monitoring system that would screen for infectious diseases abroad to contain and prevent any potential outbreaks. The bill also helps quarantine the virus, authorizing the Secretary of Homeland Security to provide equipment and supplies to mitigate the risk or threat of infectious diseases, such as Zika. You can watch Congressman Zeldin’s floor speech from this morning here.
02.08.2016	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) today joined with members of the Dwyer family, veterans and local leaders at American Legion Post 269 in Patchogue to announce legislation that he will be introducing in Congress to expand the PFC Joseph P. Dwyer Veteran Peer Support Program (“Dwyer Program”) to the national level. In 2012, while serving in the NYS Senate, Congressman Zeldin created the Dwyer Program, a peer-to-peer support program for veterans suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI). PFC Joseph Dwyer, from Mount Sinai, New York, served in Iraq and received nationwide recognition for a photograph that went viral—showing him cradling a wounded Iraqi boy, while his unit was fighting its way up to the capital city of Baghdad, which you can view here. Sadly, after returning home and struggling with PTSD, PFC Dwyer died in 2008 and left behind a young widow, Matina, and two year old daughter, Meaghan. Created in his honor, the Dwyer Program was initially launched in the counties of Suffolk, Jefferson, Saratoga and Rensselaer, and has since expanded to over a dozen counties in New York State. Since the program started, it has helped over 1,500 veterans from NYS who are battling PTSD or TBI. Congressman Zeldin's bill, which he is introducing in Congress this week, would take what has been accomplished in New York and expand it nationally so that we eventually have access to a peer-to-peer support group for every veteran across America. Congressman Zeldin said, “This week, I will be introducing legislation in Congress that will expand the PFC Joseph Dwyer Veterans Peer Program on a national level, so that every veteran in the U.S. eventually has access to a peer-to-peer support group. I would like to especially thank all of the amazing veteran leaders in my home county of Suffolk for helping inspire and launch this important expansion. My bill would authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to make grants to state and local entities to carry out peer-to-peer mental health programs. With the VA reporting that an estimated 22 veterans a day commit suicide, this national expansion is long overdue. I want to ensure all veterans across this great nation receive the proper treatment and care they deserve. My bill will bring much-needed support and assistance to thousands of veterans and their families across the United States. Passing this bill to support our veterans is of the highest priority for me.” Marcelle Leis, CMSgt (Ret), USAF/ANG, Program Director, Joseph P. Dwyer Veterans Peer Support Program, said, “Dwyer Project is starting its 4th year of serving Veterans, service members, and their families with post-service transitional issues to include PTSD and TBI. The partnership with Suffolk County Veterans Service Agency and the Association for Mental Health and Wellness highlights the immeasurable importance of relationships in the community. Models of community based peer groups are emerging as an adjunct to clinical treatment options, especially for veterans experiencing post-traumatic stress. Leveraging the military cultural values of trust, respect, perseverance, and self-reliance provide an opportunity for healthy reintegration through peer interaction. Over 500 veterans have been served in peer group, while another 500 were reached through individual peer mentorship. Thousands have had the opportunity to learn about program initiatives through various community events. Impact of the Dwyer Project has minimized hospitalizations, sustained families, secured gainful employment, prevented homelessness, promoted daily health and wellness, and educated the civilian community as to the needs of our veterans. The success Dwyer Project has measured in its first 3-years of program development has saved lives. Our goal is to continue honoring those who’ve served by promoting a purposeful lifestyle as they transition into productive members of our community.” New York State Assemblyman Dean Murray said, “I was proud to support NYS Senator Lee Zeldin when he started the "Joseph P. Dwyer Peer to Peer Mental Health Program" in New York State and I am just as proud to support US Congressman Lee Zeldin as he takes this extremely important program to the national level. Lee has always put the well-being of our veterans in the forefront and expanding this program nationwide will ensure that veterans throughout the nation will be able to get the support they need.” “No one understands the challenges our veterans face better than other veterans who have confronted these same problems first-hand,” said Brookhaven Supervisor Ed Romaine. “This program, named after “Mt. Sinai resident Joseph Dwyer, offers a vital service to our returning veterans. It connects them with support services as well as other veterans who understand the unique issues they are dealing with and can help them to successfully transition from military to civilian life. Congressman Zeldin has been a champion for our veterans. His vigilant work in the creation and expansion of this program has helped thousands of returning veterans, and undoubtedly saved countless lives.” Michael Stoltz LCSW, Chief Executive Officer, Association for Mental Health and Wellness, said, “Peer workers have become increasingly critical to people’s efforts to live with or recover from the distress of mental and physical health and substance use challenges. With proven experience of the Dwyer Project in Suffolk County, Congressman Zeldin is “spot on” in proposing an expanded presence of trained Veteran peers to help those who struggle to connect with helping systems, too often because of the stigma that pervades the process of asking for and getting help.” John J. Rago, Outreach Coordinator, Association for Mental Health and Wellness, said, “Congressman Zeldin’s proposed legislation to expand the Joseph P. Dwyer Peer Program to the entire nation is the natural progression for this highly successful program that has helped so many of our returning Veterans who are struggling with the effects of PTSD in Suffolk County and the other counties in New York State where it is offered. I urge both houses of Congress to fast track this legislation and for the President to sign it as soon as possible so that Veterans throughout the country can benefit from this extremely important program. Thank you Congressman Zeldin for your efforts in bringing the Joseph P. Dwyer program that you started in Suffolk County to the rest of the nation.” Rich Dellasso, SSVF Outreach Coordinator, Economic Opportunity Council of Suffolk, Inc., said, “This program is pivotal in giving our veterans the opportunity, not just to connect with other veterans, who have been there and done that, but the opportunity to vent their frustrations in a healthy and safe environment”. Tom Archer, New Beginnings Community Center, said, “The brain is the most complex organ in the human body. Active military and Veterans of our armed services suffering neurological disorders from service to our country are owed every resource available. The Joseph P Dwyer program is a proven resource that should be expanded throughout the military.” Joe Cognitore, Commander, VFW Post 6249, said, “As Legislative Chair for the VFW Department of New York, we have supported the Joseph Dwyer Peer to Peer Program by way of state legislation: A6114 and S2206 is specific legislation addressing this program. To have Joseph Dwyer Peer to Peer Program on a national level would significantly impact the veterans' community in a positive way. We need a program nationally now not later.” Bob Smith, Commander of the Disabled American Veterans Chapter 190, and the former Director of Suffolk County Veterans Service Agency, said, “I have been involved with veterans and their families for the past 17 years. I believe that recovery from mental illness is now a real possibility with the implementation of the Joseph Dwyer peer to peer veterans counseling program. Congressman Zeldin presenting legislation to implement this program nationwide will provide the template needed to assure that veterans with mental illness can now be treated with a proven and effective program to recovery.” Robert F. Neville, Past National Vice Commander, American Legion, said, “Treatment of PTSD at the VA has been satisfactory, however the main path to correction of the problem and treating this tragic illness is recognition of the problem. The Joseph Dwyer program is aimed at recognition and treatment of this illness by peers; those veterans whom have gone through some of the same traumatic experiences. We thank Congressman Zeldin for bringing this problem before Congress and hope that funding will be provided.” John Javis, Director, Operations Advanced Health Network, said, "We are very proud that Congressman Zeldin and Suffolk County first led New York, and now is leading the nation in providing veteran-to-veteran peer support. The delivery of peer support has been proven by research to promote well- being and resiliency.” Ron Hurtado, Founder and Team Captain, Airborne Tri-Team, said, “Airborne Tri-Team supports Congressman Zeldin in our battle against PTSD. Never leave a falling Comrade.”
02.08.2016	Holbrook, NY – On Saturday, February 6, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the LI Civil Air Patrol’s 11th Annual Military Ball at Villa Lombardi’s in Holbrook. The Congressman presented the Congressional Gold Medal to the family of Alice Stratigos, a former pilot with the LI Civil Air Patrol, who was approved posthumously for the award. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above presenting the Gold Medal to the family of Ms. Stratigos.
02.08.2016	Wading River, NY – On Saturday, February 6, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended the 28th Annual Mastic Beach Ambulance Company Installation of Officers in Wading River. The Congressman thanked the volunteers for all the time they devote to saving and protecting lives in the Tri-Hamlet community, and for their continued commitment to service. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, during the swearing in ceremony.
02.08.2016	The images that flash across our TVs of war-torn countries and populations in strife are rampant and inescapable in today’s society. Whether it is ISIS, al-Qaeda, or any other foreign enemy that seeks to kill innocent people, it takes a well-equipped and strong-willed force to fight back. Our nation has always been blessed with brave men and women who have answered the call to service; willingly and selflessly putting their lives on the line while defending our great country. However, while overseas, our service members are exposed to unimaginable horror and suffering, sometimes leaving them both physically and mentally scarred. While we can determine many of the appropriate remedies, utilizing modern medicine and science to treat their physical wounds, it is the mental damage that leaves us often ill-prepared and without a proper plan of action to effectively deal with their suffering. For many of our service members returning from overseas, their hardships and trauma corrupt their psyches and follow them from the battlegrounds to the safety and comfort of their homes. The months and years of training they received to fight the enemy on the front lines is not sufficient to help them deal with their problems on the home-front. Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) are ravaging our veterans and their loved ones at a truly staggering rate. It is estimated that 11-20 out of every 100 veterans who served in Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF) or Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF), have PTSD. In addition, the research and studies available now to help understand these problems were non-existent in previous decades; leaving generations of veterans from conflicts like Vietnam and the Gulf War continually discovering that they may be experiencing symptoms of PTSD or TBI. Perhaps the single most alarming statistic is the suicide rate amongst our veterans. According to the Department of Veterans Affairs, it is estimated that 22 veterans a day commit suicide. Without the proper resources or care of mental health professionals, they simply cannot cope with the horrific flashbacks or relentless anxiety that plagues and quashes any sort of normalcy they would hope to experience upon return. Seemingly routine, every day occurrences can serve as triggers that cripple these veterans’ lives and leave them without any sort of relief in sight. One of the most difficult obstacles in trying to help treat our veterans is the trouble they have opening up to strangers or people who have not endured the same tribulations as them. While there is no uniform prescription or exact methodology of how to solve the various crises our veterans live through, peer-to-peer support programs are vital to ensuring our veterans have not only an outlet to express their sentiments, but the encouragement of those who have experienced similar struggles standing with them, every step of the way. These support programs create a safe place for veterans to share what they’re going through and learn about ways they can help cope with their debilitating symptoms. Army Private First Class (PFC) Joseph P. Dwyer, from Mount Sinai, New York, was one of the countless brave and courageous veterans who served overseas to protect our great nation. PFC Dwyer served as an Army Medic during the Iraq War and received nationwide recognition for a photograph that went viral—showing him cradling a wounded Iraqi boy, while his unit was fighting its way up to the capital city of Baghdad. Sadly, PFC Dwyer passed away from complications due to his struggles with PTSD, leaving behind a young widow, Matina, and two year old daughter, Meaghan. Not even the unconditional love and support of his family, and members of his community, were enough to save PFC Dwyer. Created and dedicated in his honor, the PFC Joseph P. Dwyer Veterans Peer Project is a peer-to-peer support program that I created in the New York State Senate as part of the 2012-2013 New York State budget. The program provides a safe, confidential, and educational platform where all veterans are welcome to meet with other veterans in support of each other’s successful transition to post-service life. The Dwyer Program seeks to build vet-to-vet relationships that enhance positive change through common experiences, learning and personal growth. According to the Suffolk County Veterans Service Agency (VSA), there are 83,254 Veterans here in Suffolk. With the highest population of veterans by county in New York State, and one of the highest in the entire country, the need for a program like the Dwyer Project was long overdue. Suffolk County served as one of four test counties in New York in 2013, the first year of the program. Remarkably, we were able to conduct 148 group sessions, serving 450 veterans within Suffolk that first year. Since 2013, the program has successfully expanded to over a dozen counties across New York, assisting over 1,500 veterans battling PTSD and TBI. The staff and volunteers who work here in Suffolk County to keep the services of this program running are growing every year. We are continually expanding our counselors and mental health professionals to combat the hardships of veterans all over New York. As a proud United States veteran who served in Iraq, I know firsthand the horror and chaos that one experiences while protecting their country. While I am pleased with what we’ve managed to achieve in New York with regard to the Dwyer Project, we can and should still be doing more to help the brave men and women who put everything on the line for us. That is why I am introducing legislation in Congress that will expand the PFC Joseph Dwyer Veteran Peer Program on a national level. I want to ensure all veterans across this great nation receive the proper treatment and care they deserve. We must take what we’ve accomplished here in New York and build from it so that someday we can have a peer-to-peer support group help veterans in every county across America. I know the Dwyer Program will help bring much-needed support and assistance to thousands, and someday millions, of veterans and their families across the United States. No longer should a veteran feel shame or guilt in seeking help for him or herself. He or she should be able to utilize the services of their local vet-to-vet support group to help them effectively deal with whatever stress is bothering them. That is the goal and it is time we come together as citizens of the United States to fulfill our obligations and do more to help our veterans lead happy and meaningful lives. It is a long and arduous road to recovery for some, but I am convinced that the will-power and solidarity of this nation behind a common cause can help ameliorate the transition to post-service life for our veterans. It is vital we keep ever-present that our veterans have been willing to make the greatest sacrifice any one individual can give to another—their life. The PFC Dwyer Program is an important way for Americans to give back and say thank you. Congressman Lee Zeldin, an Army veteran who continues to serve today as a Major in the Army Reserves, represents the First Congressional District of New York. In Congress, two of Lee Zeldin’s committee assignments are Veterans Affairs and Foreign Affairs.
02.05.2016	Nesconset, NY – On Friday, February 5, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted Mobile Office Hours at the Nesconset Fire Department. Constituents with any questions or concerns, or those who needed help on a federal issue, stopped by to meet one-on-one with the Congressman and his staff. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above during his Mobile Office Hours meeting with James and Carol McLaughlin of Lake Grove.
02.04.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, joined with Rep. Mike Pompeo (R-Kan.) and Rep. Frank LoBiondo (R-N.J.) today to visit the Iranian Interests Section in Washington, DC, where they hand-delivered visa applications for the purpose of traveling to Iran. Reps. Zeldin, Pompeo and LoBiondo sent a letter to Ayatollah Khamenei and IRGC Major General Mohammad Ali Jafari requesting their assistance with the application process, and with arranging agenda items that the three lawmakers hope to accomplish in Iran, including appointments with American hostages, visits to Iranian nuclear facilities, updates on Iran’s recent ballistic missile tests, an IRGC briefing on the detention of 10 U.S. Navy sailors, and to observe its upcoming elections on February 26, 2016. You can view a copy of the joint letter here: 2-4-16_iran_visa_apps_letter.pdf Congressman Zeldin, member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said, “Americans deserve credible, first hand confirmation of what present day reality is in Iran, regarding the implementation of the Iran Nuclear Deal, status of American hostages, and foreign policy objectives of Iranian leaders. If Iran is truly a partner in peace, our visa applications will be granted so that we can meet with Iranian leadership, visit nuclear sites, meet with American hostages and observe Iran's upcoming election. I look forward to visiting Iran later this month and reporting back to the American people upon our return to the United States." “The president has consistently rewarded Iran’s depraved behavior, providing billions of dollars in sanctions relief to this fanatical regime through implementation of his dangerous nuclear agreement,” Congressman Pompeo, a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, said. “Given the recent changes brought about by these actions, it is critical that we, as members of Congress, visit Iran and verify whether or not this country will uphold the terms of the nuclear deal. It is also important to have Americans present to observe if Iran’s elections are free and fair. If Iran is truly a partner in peace, as President Obama and Secretary Kerry claim, then Iranian leaders should have no problem granting our visas and arranging the requested agenda. I look forward to receiving a timely response from Iran.” “For the past year, we have been repeatedly assured by President Obama and Ayatollah Khamenei of a new era of openness and cooperation between the United States and Iran. In the spirit of such openness and cooperation, my colleagues and I should be able to visit Iran and see firsthand what we have requested to review, including the upcoming Iranian elections. Approving the visa applications of Member of the U.S. Congress would be a sign of good faith from the Iranian government,” said Congressman LoBiondo, Chairman of the House CIA Subcommittee.
02.04.2016	Washington, DC – On Tuesday, February 2, 2016, the House Natural Resources Committee hosted a hearing of the Subcommittee on Water, Power, and Oceans regarding legislation that Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) introduced in the House, the EEZ Clarification Act (HR 3070), to clarify federal laws governing marine fisheries management in the exclusive economic zone between Montauk, New York, and Block Island, Rhode Island. Between New York State waters, which end three miles off of Montauk Point, New York, and the Rhode Island boundary, which begins three miles off of Block Island, there is a small area of federally controlled water that is considered part of the “Exclusive Economic Zone,” or EEZ. The EEZ, which extends up to 200 miles from the coast, are waters patrolled by the Coast Guard, where the United States has exclusive jurisdiction over fisheries and other natural resources. Striped bass fishing has been banned in the EEZ since 1990, which has caused major confusion and arbitrary punishment of the region’s fishermen as they pass from state waters, where striped bass fishing is legal, into federal waters, where striped bass fishing is in violation of the law. In an effort to address this issue, federal regulations were set to create a special “transit zone” where fishermen are able to possess striped bass that were caught in state waters while they travel through the small area of federal waters in the EEZ. Though the transit zone was meant to help, some fishermen have been unable to prove that their stripers were legally caught outside of the EEZ, and therefore have been boarded or fined by state and federal authorities for possessing these fish. Additionally, the transit zone is difficult for authorities to police because people may be fishing for a different, permitted species, but may have striped bass on board from a different area. Congressman Zeldin recently co-hosted a House Natural Resources Committee field hearing in Riverhead, NY, with Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT). The hearing, which was titled, “Restoring Atlantic Fisheries and Protecting the Regional Seafood Economy,” was held on December 7, 2015 to discuss important local fishing issues. Congressman Zeldin’s EEZ Clarification Act was discussed and Chairman Bishop was able to hear first-hand the concerns of those on Long Island who rely upon fishing as an occupation and as a way of life. Congressman Zeldin’s EEZ Clarification Act would eliminate the regulatory confusion hurting the hardworking, responsible men and women of the region’s struggling fishing communities, while freeing up Coast Guard and other law enforcement resources that are diverted from more critical missions, such as national security and vessel safety. Congressman Zeldin attended the hearing and spoke about the importance of passing his bill. Captain Joe McBride, the Legislative Representative of Montauk Boatmen & Captains Association (MBCA) attended the hearing as well to speak firsthand about the issue Long Island fishermen face. You can watch the hearing here. Congressman Zeldin said, “One of the most pressing issues faced by Long Island fishermen is the urgent need to clarify the boundary of the Exclusive Economic Zone, or EEZ, between Montauk Point and Block Island. The unique geography of our region means that making the 15 mile journey by boat from Montauk Point to Block Island requires passing through a small strip of waters considered to be part of the EEZ. For recreational anglers or charter boat captains, this shift in jurisdiction can mean the difference between a nice day on the water and committing a federal offense. Law-abiding, responsible fishermen should not be punished for doing their jobs, and since this is a state and local waterway, it should be controlled locally, not federally. The EEZ clarification will provide regulatory relief and more certainty to our region’s fishermen, while restoring local control to a critical fishery that must be properly managed and preserved for future generations. H.R. 3070 is common sense legislation that offers a simple local solution to a unique local issue. The dedicated charter boat captains, recreational anglers, and the tens of thousands of Long Islanders who depend upon the coastal economy of the East End deserve no less.” Natural Resources Committee Chairman, Congressman Rob Bishop, said, “This bill is the result of a grassroots effort from Long Island’s fishermen. I commend Congressman Zeldin for listening and working with those who have the most at stake in utilizing and protecting this fishery. We look forward to passing this bill to help Long Island’s fishing communities.” House Water, Power and Oceans Subcommittee Chairman, Congressman John Fleming, said, “H.R. 3070 corrects a unique navigational issue in Block Island Sound, off the coasts of Long Island and Rhode Island. As we heard at the hearing, this small strip of federally controlled waters poses regulatory confusion for fishermen who are trying to abide by both state and federal fisheries laws but are challenged by navigational boundaries that are not visually apparent around Block Island. Mr. Zeldin’s bipartisan legislation makes a small adjustment to the federal / state water boundaries to resolve this fisheries management issue.” House Subcommittee on Water, Power and Oceans Vice-Chairman, Congressman Paul Gosar, said, “H.R. 3070, attempts to reduce regulatory confusion that may unintentionally make criminals out of law-abiding striped bass fishermen. A simple boundary change as outlined in the bill would help alleviate this problem. Testimony submitted against this legislation unfortunately appears apocalyptic and fearful of any change. Federal laws and regulations are not sacrosanct and must be updated when necessary. I commend Mr. Zeldin for his leadership on this issue. It’s my hope that we can resolve this matter and this bill is a much needed first step in this direction.” Captain Joe McBride, Legislative Representative of Montauk Boatmen & Captains Association (MBCA) said, "The MBCA would like to thank Chairman John Fleming and Congressman Lee Zeldin for allowing us to present our issues to the Committee on Natural Resources. We appreciated Chairman Bishop and other members taking the time to come to Riverhead in December for a field hearing. We have a long standing problem with the Transit Zone between Block Island, RI and Montauk Point, NY, and between Block Island and Point Judith, RI. We have been trying for many years to correct this problem with no success. The impact of sport fishing on Long Island is very important to our economy, especially in Montauk. To correct this unintended problem we urge support for H.R. 3070, for other efforts at the federal level to improve access for New York's fishermen, and we thank Congressman Zeldin for his strong leadership on these issues."
02.03.2016	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, February 3, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) met with the Long Island Oyster Growers Association in his Washington, DC office to discuss their community-based association that is working to improve oyster farming on Long Island. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with Mike Osinski, right, of Greenport, President of the Long Island Oyster Growers Association.
02.01.2016	Riverhead, NY – On Thursday, January 28, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) attended a ribbon-cutting ceremony for the new "Stars and Stripes Lounge" at the Suffolk County Community College (SCCC) Eastern Campus in Riverhead. The Stars and Stripes Lounge is open to SCCC students who are Service Veterans. Funding for this Veterans Resource Center came from a grant from the Kisco Foundation. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above after the ribbon cutting ceremony with SCCC officials and student veterans. Pictured, from left to right, are Eastern Campus Executive Dean Dee Laffin; Roger King; Matthew Robar; Michael Pausell; Congressman Lee Zeldin; Timothy Curry; Suffolk County Community College President Dr. Shaun L. McKay; Abigail Heins; Nancy McCabe; Walter Ochinko; and Duane Silvera.
02.01.2016	Farmingdale, NY – On Sunday, January 31, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) presented World War II Veteran, Frederick C. Stone, of Stony Brook, New York, with the prestigious Purple Heart Medal. The Purple Heart Medal was established by General George Washington at Newburgh, New York, in 1782, during the Revolutionary War. It was re-established by the President of the United States per War Department General Orders in 1932. The Purple Heart is limited to members of the Armed Forces of the United States who, while serving our country, were wounded, killed, or have since died due to wounds received during battle. It is awarded in the name of the President of the United States. In August of 2015, Congressman Zeldin presented Mr. Stone with the Bronze Star Medal. On April 28-29, 1945, while overseas aboard the U.S.S. Butler gunship in Okinawa, Mr. Stone was engaged in a battle with the enemy, in which he was wounded. Mr. Stone’s Bronze Star Medal citation specifically states, “Although wounded during action with the enemy he helped to remove a more seriously wounded man to safety and returned to his gun…” Based upon this citation, the Congressman’s office inquired with the Navy as to his additional entitlement to the Purple Heart Medal and the Navy agreed. On Sunday, January 31, 2016, Mr. Stone received the Purple Heart award on behalf of a grateful nation. Pictured above, from left to right, are Navy Commander Dom Pastorin, Commanding Officer of NOSC Long Island, Mr. Stone and Congressman Zeldin.
01.28.2016	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) announced today that the Patient Access and Medicare Protection Act (S-2425), which was passed and signed into law by the President, includes a one year delay in the application of Medicare competitive bid pricing for Complex Rehab Power Wheelchair Accessories, a top priority that Congressman Zeldin has been fighting for and a victory for the disabled. Under a 2014 ruling by Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), which was expected to go into effect this month, accessories that are used on complex rehabilitative wheelchairs would no longer be a part of a fixed fee schedule; instead, it would be subject to competitive bidding pricing, which would decrease individuals’ access to wheelchairs and accessories relied on by adults and children with disabilities. Congressman Zeldin has been working in Congress to ensure the ruling does not go into effect. In 2015, the Congressman introduced bipartisan legislation in the House of Representatives, H.R. 3229, which would make permanent a fixed fee schedule for specialized power wheelchairs and related services that are relied on by people with disabilities and their families. S-2425, which the Congressman supported, includes a one year delay of the implementation of a competitive bidding fee structure and will keep fees from rising an estimated 20%, while providing ample time to pass the Congressman’s permanent measure. Congressman Zeldin said, “A one year delay is an essential first step towards ensuring this price structure remains unchanged. Without this delay, individuals with disabilities would have been thrown into an unfamiliar landscape, making it much more difficult to access the necessary quality products at an affordable price. I will continue to push in Congress for the passage of my legislation to ensure those with disabilities can access the complex rehabilitative equipment they require to meet their medical needs and to function at the highest level possible.” “Under my legislation, through a commonsense clarification to existing law, we can ensure that those in the Medicare program do not have to struggle year after year with new rules and pricing arbitrarily reached by CMS to receive equipment that they need,” continued Congressman Zeldin. “Providing support for those who need it the most has always been a principle Americans have stood by for generations. I will continue to push for the passage of this critical legislation to ensure that we help the many vulnerable men and women who are living with disabilities,” Congressman Zeldin concluded. The legislation has strong bipartisan support in Congress with nearly 90 cosponsors. It is also fully supported by the ALS Association, Muscular Dystrophy Association, National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Paralyzed Veterans of America, VetsFirst and the United Spinal Association.
01.25.2016	Riverhead, NY –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) today announced that he is opening an East End congressional satellite office in Riverhead, NY, on February 1, 2016. The office will be located at 30 West Main Street, Suite 201, in Riverhead, NY, and starting February 1, 2016, will be open every Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday from 10:00 AM – 2:00 PM, or by appointment, by contacting (631) 209-4235. Congressman Zeldin said, “An East End office will bring the wide range of constituent services that my office provides a little closer to home for eastern Long Island residents. If you are struggling with a federal issue or agency, or have any questions or concerns, I encourage you to contact and take full advantage of my East End office.” In 2015, Congressman Zeldin and his Long Island constituent services team successfully closed over 2,000 cases in favor of NY-1 residents, dealing with a number of federal issues from veteran’s affairs, Social Security and Medicare, health care, housing, immigration, active military, post office, 9/11 Fund, and homeland security. Congressman Zeldin’s office works with all levels of government, on issues including law enforcement, quality of life, environmental, and infrastructure.
01.25.2016	Ridge, NY – On Thursday, January 21, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) visited the Leisure Village Community Center in Ridge, where he gave the residents an update on his work on Long Island and in Washington, DC. The Congressman spoke about a number of topics ranging from health care to foreign policy and improving our economy. The Congressman also discussed his work to protect and preserve Medicare and Social Security for our seniors.
01.25.2016	Patchogue, NY – On Friday, January 22, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) hosted a reception to recognize and congratulate the 34 Long Islanders he has nominated to United States Service Academies this year. Members of Congress may nominate candidates for appointment to four of the five U.S. service academies: U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY; the U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD; the U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO; and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY. The fifth service academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA), New London, CT, does not require a congressional nomination for appointment. The application process began in May of 2015. Since then, Congressman Zeldin worked closely with his staff and Service Academy Review Committee, a group of 15 volunteers, to narrow down the candidates based on a number of specific criteria, including academic records, leadership experience, and community service. The Congressman also hosted a Service Academy Information Day at Brookhaven Town Hall in July of 2015 for prospective students and their families to speak with representatives from Service Academies across the United States. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “Congratulations to all 34 Service Academy nominees for New York’s First Congressional District. Our Service Academies, which offer students the highest quality of education, play a vital role in training our future leaders. As a member of Congress, I have the privilege to nominate the best and brightest candidates from our Congressional District for appointment to four of the five U.S. service academies. I am proud to say that after 8 months, I have nominated 34 fine young men and women. These nominations are not given, but rather they are earned as a result of hard work and dedication; and commitment to serve our country. It is my hope that each and every nominee will take full advantage of all that the service academy has to offer and that they will grow to become great future leaders.” Congressman Zeldin’s nominees are listed below. U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY: James Murphy of Port Jefferson; Austin Haynia of Port Jefferson Station; Brenden Simpson of Setauket; John Day of Setauket; Chelsea Chamberlain of South Setauket; Isabella Cortes of Shoreham; Garrett Bracht of Nesconset; Ryan Silver of Blue Point; Emma Fasolino of Cutchogue; and Charles Campisi of Smithtown. U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD: Taya Coniglio of Riverhead; Andrew Emerson of Stony Brook; Greg Sheryll of Cutchogue; Thomas Audley of East Setauket; Skylar Grathwohl of Mattituck; Gabriella Franco of East Setauket; Harrison Boyd of Selden; Christian Gaines of Kings Park; and Kelsey Nogueras of East Patchogue. U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO: Peter Tsakonas of Port Jefferson Station; Peter Shannon of Lake Ronkonkoma; Kevin Reichardt of Kings Park; Brenden Richardson of East Patchogue; and Nicholas Pagnotta of Miller Place. U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY: Ally McFadyen of Saint James; Michael LoRusso of Hauppauge; Edward Wills of Calverton; William Stuckart of Mattituck; Daniel Corvi of Smithtown; Craig Hawley of Brookhaven; Elliot Fischer of Sound Beach; John Heim of Smithtown; Patrick Biemer of Shoreham; and Dana Fasano of Ridge.
01.22.2016	Mastic Beach, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1) today joined with the U.S. Postal Service, state and local elected officials, and members of the community, for the Mastic Beach Post Office dedication ceremony in honor of local Revolutionary War hero, General Nathaniel Woodhull. General Woodhull, from Mastic Beach, is a largely forgotten patriot and martyr of the American Revolution. His role in American history is generally over-shadowed by his more famous brother-in-law, General William Floyd, who was a signer of the Declaration of Independence. General Woodhull’s service to the country began with the French and Indian War in the 3rd New York Regiment. He achieved the rank of colonel and saw action at Ticonderoga, Crown Point, and Montreal then later presided over the New York Provincial Congress, as its president. His service to the American cause during the Revolution was cut short and America lost one of its most able generals in the field when, on August 28, 1776, during the British invasion of Long Island, General Woodhull was wounded and captured in Queens. He was imprisoned by the enemy where he succumbed to his wounds on September 20, 1776, becoming one of the first officers of the rank of General to have been wounded, captured, and killed during America’s fight for Independence. To honor General Woodhull’s great service and sacrifice to the William Floyd community, and to our country, the Mastic Beach Post Office was dedicated in his honor. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “It’s so important that we always remember the service of all our fallen heroes; and now the residents of Mastic Beach will be reminded on a daily basis of General Woodhull’s ultimate sacrifice paid to create the greatest nation in the world. It may be easy for some to forget the dedication and sacrifices of our early American patriots, as they lived and fought almost 250 years ago, but without them our nation would have never been created in the first place. It is a special honor to commemorate an individual from the same area on Long Island as where I grew up and live today. Mastic Beach and its residents are known for their toughness and enduring spirit, much like General Woodhull. Dedicating this post office in his honor is the least we can do for all that he has sacrificed for us.” “We are very pleased to have our Mastic Beach Post Office named for Brigadier General Nathaniel Woodhull. Every Post Office is part of the fabric of the community they serve and naming this office for him is a well-deserved honor,” said the Postal Service’s Long Island District Manager Frank Calabrese. Pictured above, during the ceremony, from left to right, are Mastic Beach Village Mayor Maura Spery, USPS District Manager Frank Calabrese, Congressman Zeldin, Brookhaven Councilman Dan Panico, State Assemblyman Dean Murray, and State Senator Tom Croci. Also in the picture are two students from Nathaniel Woodhull Elementary School’s Student Council, who led the Pledge of Allegiance.
01.21.2016	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-Chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, released the following statement in support of anti-Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) legislation that passed the New York State Senate yesterday. Introduced in the State Senate by Senators Jack Martins (Rep) and Simcha Felder (Dem), S. 6378A prohibits New York State from doing business with individuals or corporations involved in the BDS movement targeting Israel. Companion legislation, A.903, was introduced in the State Assembly by Assemblywoman Helene Weinstein (Dem). “There is no greater ally and strategic partner to the United States than Israel. It’s essential that we remain committed to building a stronger relationship between our two nations. The anti-Semitic ideology harming Israel and her economy through the BDS movement should not be supported in any manner by the United States. I thank the New York State Senate for leading boldly on this important issue, and hope that this legislation will be quickly passed by the State Assembly and signed into law,” Congressman Zeldin said.
01.19.2016	Washington, DC — Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, announced today that legislation he introduced in Congress, the Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2016 (H.R. 4314), passed the House Foreign Affairs Committee. The Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2016 would establish a plan to close security gaps that currently exist that allow terrorists and foreign fighters to travel internationally. The plan would establish international border security standards. A reporting system would also be established to monitor efforts of foreign governments to combat terrorism and foreign fighter travel and to suspend foreign assistance to countries not making significant efforts to comply. Moreover, U.S. surplus equipment and supplies would be sent abroad to boost security. Furthermore, the legislation would put a monitoring system in place that would screen for infectious diseases to contain and prevent any potential outbreaks. Congressman Zeldin joined with House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA), House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX), and House Foreign Affairs Committee Ranking Member Eliot Engel (D-NY), who all spoke in Committee in support of this legislation and encouraged swift passage of this bill on the House floor. You can watch their speeches here. Congressman Zeldin said, “The latest terror attack in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso shows us just how quickly terrorism is spreading across the world and further proves the need for the global community to work together. One of the many solutions includes passing my Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2016 (H.R. 4314) to help stop the movement of foreign fighters. The recent terror attack in Paris that killed over 100 people showed us just how easy it is for terrorists to move undetected across borders. This measure is long overdue and with the bill’s passage out of Committee, it is clear that many of my colleagues in Congress share this view. I will continue to push for the full passage of this bill in the House.” The Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2016 passed the House Foreign Affairs Committee this month with bipartisan support.
01.19.2016	Washington, DC — On Monday, January 18, 2016, Martin Luther King Day, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C—NY-1) attended the First Baptist Church of Riverhead’s 31st Annual Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial Breakfast. The Congressman is pictured above with Rev. Charles Coverdale of First Baptist Church, and his wife, Mrs. Shirley Coverdale, President and CEO of Family Community Life Center, Inc.
01.18.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C-NY-1) released the following statement in observance of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: “Today, we honor the life and leadership of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and celebrate his enduring legacy. Dr. King, one of the greatest leaders in our nation’s history, was a true American hero who dedicated his life to peacefully fighting injustice and spreading his lasting message of love and respect. Dr. King said, “Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.” Over fifty years later, his words are as true today, as they were then; and the messages he taught, that forever changed our nation, continue to inspire us all. Together, we must always strive to ensure justice, freedom, and opportunity for all. While our cause may change over time, Dr. King's words should never be forgotten.”
01.16.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) released the following statement in light of the latest terror attack, this time in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso. Congressman Zeldin also is calling for passage of his bill, The Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2016. “This is another reminder that radical Islamic extremism cannot be contained. It must be defeated,” said Congressman Zeldin. “ISIS is a major threat, but it is not the only threat, and the cancer is currently spreading in many different directions to countries in Africa, Asia and elsewhere. Nigeria, Sudan, Somalia, Yemen, Mali, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, Indonesia, Malaysia, India, Pakistan, and the Philippines, are just some of the other countries where radical Islamic extremist groups are operating and plotting attacks against the rest of us. This is a cancer that must be eliminated. “One of the many solutions includes passing my Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2016 (H.R. 4314) to help stop the movement of foreign fighters. The House Foreign Affairs Committee just passed my legislation through Committee and I am encouraging Congress to pass this legislation and send it to the President for his signature,” Congressman Zeldin concluded. The Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2016 would establish a plan to close security gaps that currently exist that allow terrorists and foreign fighters to travel internationally. The plan would establish international border security standards. A reporting system would also be established to monitor efforts of foreign governments to combat terrorism and foreign fighter travel and to suspend foreign assistance to countries not making significant efforts to comply. Moreover, U.S. surplus equipment and supplies would be sent abroad to boost security. The legislation would also put a monitoring system in place that would screen for infectious diseases to contain and prevent any potential outbreaks. The bill was introduced in the House by Congressman Zeldin on January 5, 2016.
01.13.2016	Washington, DC — Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, attended a House Foreign Affairs Committee luncheon with His Majesty King Abdullah II ibn Al-Hussein of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, on January 12, 2016. Topics of discussion included the fight against ISIS, the recent breakdown in diplomatic relations between Iran and other governments in the region, the Syrian refugee crisis, and strengthening U.S.-Jordan economic and security cooperation. Congressman Zeldin said, “It was an honor and privilege to meet with the King of Jordan. The United States and Jordan have shared a long history of cooperation with the mutual interest of securing peace and stability in the Middle East; and it was an honor to reinforce the United States’ commitment to our relationship with Jordan in person.” In December of 2015, Congressman Zeldin led a Congressional Delegation (CODEL) visit to the Middle East, which included a stop in Jordan. While in the Middle East, the Congressman had several meetings with top military and diplomatic leadership, as well as deployed service members from New York and around the country.
01.11.2016	Yaphank, NY — On January 5, 2016, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) toured Ultra Electronics’ Long Island facility; an electronic and high tech systems manufacturing facility that serves the defense and aerospace, security and cyber transport, and energy markets. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with Ultra Electronics’ employees, including President Peter A. Crawford, Vice President of Corporate Development Gregory Thom, and Vice President of Marketing Harry Contos.
01.11.2016	Huntington, NY —Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) attended the Long Island Chapter of the National Electrical Contractors Association’s (NECA) Annual Installation Dinner at Oheka Castle in Huntington on January 8, 2016. As the Keynote Speaker, the Congressman spoke about work in Congress supporting the electrical construction industry and about his trip to Iraq over the recent holiday season to spend time with our military service personnel. Pictured above, from left to right, are NECA Director of Government Affairs Charles Gardner, NECA Local 25 President John Guadagno, Congressman Lee Zeldin, and NECA Chapter Manager Peter Mastrorocco.
01.11.2016	Washington, DC –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) hosted a press conference today at Long Island University (LIU) in Riverhead to discuss legislation he introduced in Congress, The Earnings Contingent Education Loans (ExCEL) Act of 2015 (H.R.3695); and urge Congress to act swiftly to pass this critical legislation that would address the growing student loan debt crisis. The current student loan repayment model can be overwhelming and burdensome for many borrowers. The ExCEL Act will simplify the process by establishing an affordable, income-based repayment method that is molded to each individual’s needs. Through this process, students would have their loan payments withheld from their paychecks and allow borrowers to repay their loans in timetables specific to their financial needs. The monthly obligation of each borrower only marginally increases when a borrower’s salary increases, ensuring the incentive to pursue higher paying jobs is not eliminated based on fear of huge increases in student loan payments. A 2013 Consumer Financial Protection Bureau report stated that nearly 1/3 of federal borrowers have either defaulted on student debt, or are in the deferment or forbearance process. Further, the Department of Education recently stated that nearly 12 percent of borrowers have defaulted on loan repayments from 2013 to 2015. Right now, the U.S. Government has almost $800 billion in student loans outstanding on its balance sheet; and according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, due to the dangerously high rate of default, the government is expected to lose nearly $20 billion over the next 10 years. The ExCEL Act will lower the cost of student loans to the American taxpayer by dramatically decreasing default rates. The legislation contains specific prohibitions that guarantee each borrower meets his or her full financial obligation, and ensures the solvency of student loan assistance for years to come. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “I am proud to introduce the ExCEL Act in the House of Representatives to help address the student debt crisis faced by the American public, a serious and growing problem in the United States. Estimates show that currently 40 million Americans have student debt totaling over $1.2 trillion. Young college graduates are having difficulty securing structured loans that can help them afford to get their professional lives off the ground successfully. Under the current system, borrowers are limited to rigid mortgage-like repayment systems which offer little flexibility in terms of repayment. The ExCEL Act would replace the current broken student loan system with an individualized loan repayment program tailored to each student's needs. Borrowers would be able to pay their loans off quicker as they earn more money, but this new system would also provide additional protections for borrowers during periods of low income levels or even unemployment. This flexible repayment approach focuses on the student’s ability to repay loans based on their income to ensure the student is not being set up to fail, while establishing a program that ensures loans are paid back in their entirety, and incentivizes graduates to repay their loans more quickly. We should do all that we can to help younger Americans achieve their full potential as future leaders of this great country. That goal can not materialize when new college graduates are saddled with excessive volumes of debt. The ExCEL Act must be signed into law as soon as possible so we can take the necessary steps to address this growing crisis.” LIU Dean Donna Di Donato, said, "All of us at LIU are here because we believe in the transformative power of higher education, and this commitment to our students includes making a college education accessible to students from all walks of life." “I applaud Congressman Zeldin for focusing on the growing student loan debt crisis. I have worked very hard to enact measures ranging from loan forgiveness to increased tuition assistance recognizing that student loan debt is one of the most serious financial issues facing our young people today. I look forward to working with Congressman Zeldin in an effort to further ease the burden on New York Students,” said New York State Senator Ken LaValle. “Unmanageable student debt not only weighs down young people just starting out in life, but it is detrimental to local economies,” stated Suffolk County Legislator Al Krupski. “In light of this issue, most students today have little choice but to consider the ramifications of taking on such long-term debt in their young lives. Congressman Zeldin’s bill is a positive step in addressing the student debt crisis and one which will make repayment of student loans more manageable for many individuals. I thank him for his leadership on this issue.” A copy of the bill can be found here.
01.11.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) announced today that he has selected Deborah Bonacasa, wife of deceased Staff Sergeant Louis Bonacasa, and the parents of Staff Sergeant Louis Bonacasa, to be his guests at the President’s final State of the Union address tomorrow, Tuesday, January 12. First Congressional District resident, Staff Sergeant Louis Bonacasa, from Coram, New York, was fatally injured during a suicide bombing near Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan that killed six U.S. service members on December 21, 2015. Members of Congress normally receive one gallery ticket to the State of the Union for a guest. Congressman Zeldin was able to secure two additional gallery tickets from Speaker of the House Paul Ryan so that SSgt Bonacasa’s parents could attend as well. “It is the greatest honor to invite the family of Staff Sergeant Louis Bonacasa of Coram as my guests for the 2016 State of the Union address. Serving his final tour abroad, Staff Sergeant Bonacasa was a true American hero, and I cannot think of a greater way to honor his sacrifice to our nation. On behalf of all the residents of the First Congressional District, I would like to thank Staff Sergeant Bonacasa for his dedication and sacrifice to our country, and welcome his family to Washington, DC.”
01.07.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, today announced that legislation he introduced in Congress, the “Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2016” (H.R. 4314) passed the House Foreign Affairs Committee. The Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2016 would establish a plan to close security gaps that currently exist that allow terrorists and foreign fighters to travel internationally. The plan would establish international border security standards that would be developed in coordination with all relevant U.S. Government departments and agencies in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, Attorney General, Director of National Intelligence, and Director of the FBI. Under the plan, U.S. resources would be utilized in the most efficient way possible with a special focus on high-risk and medium-risk countries. Under this legislation, a reporting system would also be established to monitor efforts of foreign governments to combat terrorism and foreign fighter travel and to suspend foreign assistance to countries not making significant efforts to comply. Furthermore, the legislation would put a monitoring system in place that would screen for infectious diseases to contain and prevent any potential outbreaks. “Today, I am proud to announce that my legislation, the Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2016, passed the House Foreign Affairs Committee,” Congressman Zeldin said. “This critical bill would establish international border security standards, which would address vulnerabilities that currently exist with international security abroad. With the rise of terrorism at home and around the world, it is important that we remain ever vigilant to protect our homeland. This is a commonsense way to ensure that we can monitor and stop the movement of terrorists. I believe that this measure is long overdue and with this bill’s passage out of Committee today, it is clear that many of my colleagues in Congress share this view. I will continue to push for the full passage of this bill in the House.” A copy of the bill can be found here.
01.06.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) will vote today for the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015 (H.R. 3762), which is expected to pass the House of Representatives. Passing both the House and the Senate, this is the first bill to repeal Obamacare that will be sent to the President’s desk. The Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act repeals major provisions of Obamacare and provide a two year period of time to ensure that Americans still have healthcare coverage during the transition to a better plan. According to estimates by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act will reduce the deficit by $516 billion from 2016-2025. “Obamacare has been nothing short of a disaster for hardworking families and our economy,” said Congressman Zeldin. “The flaws in this healthcare system have resulted in higher premiums, higher deductibles, lost doctors, cancelled policies, and so much more. The Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act repeals many of the flawed major provisions under Obamacare over a period of two years, specifically many of the harmful mandates and taxes, so that we can increase patients’ access, without compromising quality of care or efficiency.” “The collapse of Health Republic in New York State and dozens of other co-ops across the country, has been a frightening wake up call for those who have been so locked into defending Obamacare at all costs,” Congressman Zeldin concluded. “Over recent years, it has become increasingly clear to both Democrats and Republicans that this law is deeply flawed. It is evident that at this point in time that we must fully repeal and replace Obamacare with solutions that cost less and guarantee more freedom, certainty and security.”
01.05.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, today announced that he will introduce the “Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2016” in the House of Representatives. The Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2016 would establish a plan to close security gaps that currently exist that allow terrorists and foreign fighters to travel internationally. The plan would establish international border security standards that would be developed in coordination with all relevant U.S. Government departments and agencies in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, Attorney General, Director of National Intelligence, and Director of the FBI. Under the plan, U.S. resources would be utilized in the most efficient way possible with a special focus on high-risk and medium-risk countries. Under this legislation, a reporting system would also be established to monitor efforts of foreign governments to combat terrorism and foreign fighter travel and to suspend foreign assistance to countries not making significant efforts to comply. Furthermore, the legislation would put a monitoring system in place that would screen for infectious diseases to contain and prevent any potential outbreaks. Congressman Zeldin said, “The vulnerabilities that currently exist with international security abroad pose a concerning threat to our homeland. The development of international border security standards is critical. With the rise of terrorism at home and around the world, it’s essential that we work together as a global community to monitor and stop the movement of terrorists. This measure is long overdue. I strongly encourage my colleagues in Congress to swiftly pass the Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2016.” A copy of the bill can be found here: Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act.pdf
01.05.2016	Smithtown, NY — Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) spoke at St. Patrick’s Roman Catholic Church in Smithtown on Sunday, January 3, 2016. The event was organized by the Catholics for Freedom of Religion.
12.30.2015	Patchogue, New York - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY 1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Co-Chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus today called on Congress and the Department of Justice to investigate the NSA’s spying on members of Congress’ conversations with top Israeli leadership. The House Intelligence Committee just announced today that it is opening a probe. Additionally, Congressman Zeldin called on the Obama Administration to disclose information related to its role in this questionable activity. “If the latest reports are true, laws were broken and there must be accountability for all responsible,” said Congressman Zeldin. “First off, Israel is a trusted ally of the United States of America and should be respected as such. The NSA’s spying of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and top level Israeli leadership harms our relationship with our greatest friend and ally in the Middle East. Furthermore, and especially concerning, the NSA should not have been recording the conversations between members of Congress and Israeli leadership. It appears that laws may have been broken.” Congressman Zeldin met with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, as well as other top leaders in the Israeli government, during the negotiation and deliberation of the P5+1 Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), the Iran Nuclear Agreement. “Israel is a beacon of freedom and democracy in a region of the world that is filled with darkness,” continued Congressman Zeldin. “America’s foreign policy should be one that strengthens our relationships with our allies and treats our enemies as our enemies. These new details about the NSA’s spying does nothing to strengthen our relationship with Israel and other allies around the world. If only the Obama administration would channel a fraction of its bias against Israel towards more responsible policy towards Iran, America would be made more secure today and in the future.” Congressman Zeldin concluded, “Putting the spying of Israeli leadership aside for a moment, in what interpretation of national security can the President of the United States justify using National Security Agency assets to spy on members of Congress? Is this really for national security or is it for political gain? The Obama administration must disclose the entirety of its role in this questionable activity. The United States Department of Justice should appoint a Special Prosecutor and the United States Congress should investigate the Obama Administration and National Security Agency to pursue full clarity and accountability regarding this deeply troubling activity.”
12.29.2015	Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY 1), Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, who just returned from a Christmas time Congressional Delegation (CODEL) visit to Iraq and Kuwait, released the following statement after the Iraqi military recaptured Ramadi from ISIS: “Recapturing Ramadi is a key strategic victory for Iraq and coalition forces. For Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi, U.S. Army Lieutenant General Sean McFarland, the Iraqi Counter Terrorism Service, and all others who played critical roles in this effort, this is a very positive development not just for Iraqi security, but for the security of the free world in the fight against ISIS. In Iraq, the United States and coalition partners clearly have a plan and that plan is moving in the right direction. Since the May 19th fall of Ramadi, there has been no loss of ground to ISIS for more than 48 hours. It is very tenuous though and with so much ground still to recapture, the reality remains that this could all pivot in the opposite direction in the blink of an eye. An intense battle for Mosul still awaits. For ISIS, which has linked its efforts to establishing a caliphate, holding ground and expanding further is critical. That is a key reason why their loss of Ramadi is important. There is a possibility that within two to five years, the Iraqis will recapture all land in their country currently held by ISIS. That is far from certain, but for the first time in a long time, many are at least feeling momentum in the right direction. Syria and Libya are a completely different story where there seems to be no plan to defeat ISIS, only to take out some of the bad guys and disrupt some of their command and control. That situation I fear is likely to get worse before it gets better and is a race against the clock. The best humanitarian victory that can be delivered for the Syrians is to wipe ISIS off the face of the earth and for the rest of the civil war to end. It is difficult to develop a plan for a post-Assad Syria if all of the people needed to run the country afterwards flee now with almost no possibility they will move back later. There is only so much patience before those capable of rebuilding Syria who still remain will also flee the country. This is an urgent crisis without a plan. The United States has an important role to play in the mission to defeat ISIS, whether we want to or not. It is clear that in Iraq at least the strategy has evolved recently into one that is using more boots on the ground while approaching operations responsibly in a way to greatly mitigate the potential loss of American service members. There are still ways to improve the mission from intelligence collection to information operations (IO). On the IO front, despite all of the sacrifice made by the United States in Iraq, there is little to no gratitude for our efforts. We should consider additional ways to improve the message that is being disseminated to civilians so that they better understand history and current reality rather than just the version the Iranians are providing with their media propaganda throughout Iraq. The Iran backing of Shia militia is a sustained issue. Right now, they are not targeting Americans, but in the past, they have killed and wounded U.S. service members and the threat of future violence is an impediment for mission accomplishment. There is a direct connection to the recently negotiated Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) between the P5+1. The leverage that brought the Iranians to the table was the sanctions relief and now those sanctions have been negotiated away without resolving so many other lingering issues such as state sponsored terrorism, efforts to overthrow foreign governments, illegal ballistic missile tests, and pledges of ‘Death to America’. America must come to the realization that we got played at the negotiating table and consider options to reconsider our unilateral concessions that negotiated away our leverage. There are also major challenges still ahead for Prime Minister al-Abadi who appears to currently be leading better than his predecessor, former Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki. It is still uncertain whether Iraq has a stable future with the Kurds, Sunnis and Shia accepting the new form of government. Prime Minister al-Abadi seems to be working very hard to move the complex pieces in a direction where the coalition government would have its best chance for success. On the military front, the recapturing of Ramadi was a key victory for the Iraqi Counter Terrorism Service (CTS). The larger issue is the massive gap in readiness between CTS and the rest of the Iraqi Army, which lacks the will to defend the country. The CTS’ ranks need to grow without compromising quality in pursuit of quantity and/or the Iraqi Army needs to start showing up for work and shaping up to keep the nation secure. It’s a complex map in the Middle East with additional factors at play when you add in to the mix Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan, Israel, etc. As for Iraq specifically, the path forward is uncertain, but with victory in Ramadi, a plan that could potentially work, and momentum in the right direction, there is enough reason to not only praise a hard fought battle won, but to be a little more optimistic about the future. The strategy is evolving and victory no longer seems impossible.”
12.27.2015	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C - NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, returned Saturday, December 26, from a bipartisan Congressional Delegation (CODEL) visit that he led to the Middle East. Also participating in Congressman Zeldin’s CODEL were Congressmen David G. Valadao (R - CA-21) and David Cicilline (D – RI-1). During the visit, Congressman Zeldin made stops in Iraq, Kuwait, Jordan and Qatar. Congressman Zeldin said, "I was honored to lead a bipartisan CODEL to the Middle East over Christmas. The briefings with top military and diplomatic leadership, who are front in center in the fight against ISIS, served to update me on the latest developments in the coalition's efforts. I also had an opportunity to personally thank many of our service members in Iraq and Kuwait who are currently deployed and missing Christmas away from their families this holiday season." "It is great to be back home from the Middle East," Congressman Zeldin continued. "The briefings were so informative. The good news is that things are moving a little better in Iraq now and there is a plan being executed in a positive direction. It is very tenuous though and could turn in the opposite direction quickly. The bad news is that things are a lot worse in Syria and Libya and there really isn't much of a plan at all." Congressman Zeldin concluded, "I'll be looking forward to spending the next 24 hours digesting the detailed info from the various discussions, reflecting on the entire trip and reporting back on what I can. It is a complicated map in the Middle East, and unfortunately believing that none of it has anything to do with us is absolutely not an option. Naivety, weakness and a lack of leadership would prove very costly with the road ahead. The next step forward in American foreign policy must be the right move and it must be a move that plans from victory backwards and considers what moves six, seven and eight down the road should look like. There sure is quite a lot for me to think about the rest of this weekend and beyond. It's not as easy as the U.S. just 'mowing the grass' and killing everyone and it's also not as easy as doing nothing and letting them all kill each other." Pictures from the CODEL are below. Congressman Zeldin speaking to 82nd Airborne Division Paratroopers in Iraq just following their Christmas morning run: Congressmen Zeldin and Valadao in Amman, Jordan: Congressmen Zeldin and Valadao meeting at the U.S. Embassy in Kuwait with U.S. Ambassador to Kuwait Douglas Silliman: Congressman Zeldin speaking with Army Colonels about military operations in Iraq and Syria: Congressman Zeldin speaking with LTG Sean McFarland (Commanding General of Combined Joint Task Force- Operation Inherent Resolve), Deputy Chief of Mission Jonathan Cohen (Office of the U.S. Ambassador to Iraq), and MG Richard Clark (Commanding General, 82nd Airborne Division) about military operations in Iraq and Syria:
12.27.2015	Baghdad, Iraq - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C - NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following Christmas Day greeting while currently leading a Congressional Delegation (CODEL) visit to the Middle East: "As a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I'm currently leading a Congressional Delegation visit to the Middle East. For some of our service members I have met, this is their first deployment and first Christmas away from home. For others, this is their 6th deployment and sacrificing so much time away from family for so many holidays is certainly not easy. During my visit, which has included stops in Iraq, Kuwait and Jordan, I've had several meetings with top military and diplomatic leadership as well as many small group conversations over meals with our deployed service members from New York and around the country. It is such a privilege to personally let each and every one of them know just how much a very grateful nation thinks about them during these deployments and prays constantly for their safe return. This holiday season, Americans at home and abroad are seeking time for reflection and family. From the Middle East, I want to wish all Long Islanders back home who I am so honored to represent a very Merry Christmas and Happy New Year."
12.23.2015	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C - NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and House Veterans Affairs Committee, released the following statement following the suicide bombing in Afghanistan that killed six U.S. service members, including a constituent from New York's First Congressional District: "My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families following the tragic attack in Afghanistan that left six U.S. service members dead, including one of my constituents, Staff Sergeant Louis Bonacasa, from Coram, New York. Serving his final tour abroad, Staff Sergeant Bonacasa was a true American hero who leaves behind a loving wife, daughter, and extended family. On behalf of all the residents of the First Congressional District, I would like to thank Staff Sergeant Bonacasa for his dedication and sacrifice to our country, and I offer my deepest condolences to his entire family."
12.18.2015	Washington, DC —Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C—NY-1), today announced that the House of Representatives passed legislation (H.R. 2029) which includes language establishing a permanent tax deduction for East End conservation easements. Currently, landowners or farmers who donate a conservation easement to preserve their land from development can temporarily claim a federal income tax deduction. This important tax credit will now be permanent, giving certainty to Long Island conservationists and farmers. This legislation will now be sent to the President to be signed into law. Earlier this year, Congressman Zeldin also voted for the America Gives More Act (H.R. 644), which would make this tax credit permanent. H.R. 2029 also provides important funding for water quality, funding the National Estuary program, which includes the Long Island Sound and Peconic Bay, at $26.7 million for the 2016 fiscal year. The Long Island Sound Program is also funded at $4.8 million, a major victory over the Obama administration’s proposal to cut this critical water quality program by 22%. The legislation also reauthorizes the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), which provides local grants for hunting grounds, fishing areas and recreational facilities throughout Long Island, including 75 parks in Suffolk County alone. Congressman Zeldin said, “One of my top priorities in Congress is protecting and preserving the abundance of natural resources we are blessed with on Long Island. Conservation easements are one of the most important ways that we can preserve the family farms and natural beauty of the East End of Long Island. In Congress, I have also been leading the fight to protect the quality of our water. I am proud to announce the passage of important legislation that funds the restoration of the Long Island Sound and Peconic Bay.”
12.18.2015	Washington, DC —Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C—NY-1), today hailed a permanent extension of The James Zadroga Act, which passed the House of Representatives this morning. The Zadroga Act was originally passed in 2010, and established the World Trade Center Health Program and the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund. While both programs have adequate funding to carry into next year, the healthcare fund authorization lapsed and had to be reauthorized immediately. As part of the omnibus spending package, a permanent extension was passed for the World Trade Center Health Program in addition to a five year, $4.6 billion Victim Compensation Fund. Congressman Zeldin said, “Today the House voted to permanently extend the Zadroga Act, which will ensure that 9/11 first responders who continue to suffer from injuries or illnesses receive the care they earned and need for years to come. This is a huge victory for all of the 9/11 first responders who showed enormous amounts of courage and bravery in the aftermath of the terror attack on America. I am especially proud to have worked closely in a bipartisan manner with colleagues in the House and Senate, including Senators Schumer and Gillibrand, Congressman King, and Speaker Ryan, as well as local activists from Suffolk County who made countless trips to the Capitol and did everything they could to ensure that Congress permanently extended the Zadroga Act before the end of the year.” The legislation will now be sent to the Senate (H.R. 2029), where it is expected to be passed and then approved by the President.
12.17.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) today announced that the Zeldin Amendment regarding Common Core was signed into law. The Zeldin Amendment would allow states to opt out of Common Core without fear that there will be any loss of federal funding as a result. Congressman Zeldin said, “The Zeldin Amendment, which has been identified as the single most effective way for the federal government to permit New York and other states to withdraw from Common Core without fear that there will be any loss of federal funding as a result, is a huge legislative victory for states seeking to withdraw from Common Core. One of the biggest arguments against the repeal of Common Core in New York State has been that New York would lose out on several hundred million, if not billions, of federal dollars. Under this new law, my amendment clarifies that any state, including New York State, would now be able to withdraw from Common Core without losing any federal funding.” Congressman Zeldin’s amendment was included in the final conference report of the Every Student Succeeds Act, which passed both the U.S. House and Senate, and was signed into law by the President on December 10, 2015. You can read the Zeldin Amendment here.
12.16.2015	Washington, DC —Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C—NY-1), today announced that a permanent extension for The James Zadroga Act was included in the $1.1 trillion omnibus spending package expected to be passed later this week. The Zadroga Act was originally passed in 2010, and established the World Trade Center Health Program and the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund. While both programs have adequate funding to carry into next year, the healthcare fund authorization lapsed and had to be reauthorized immediately. In the omnibus spending package, which is expected to pass both the House and Senate this week, is a $3.5 billion, permanent extension of the World Trade Center Health Program and a five year, $4.6 billion Victim Compensation Fund. Congressman Zeldin said, “The permanent extension of the Zadroga Act is a huge victory for 9/11 first responders who showed enormous amounts of courage and bravery in the aftermath of the terror attack on America. Since the beginning of the year, I have worked closely with colleagues in the House and Senate to ensure that before the end of the year Congress permanently extended the Zadroga Act, which provides necessary healthcare to our 9/11 first responders. This is a huge victory and I am proud to have helped lead the fight for this extension, working across the aisle, to ensure that 9/11 first responders receive the care they earned and need for years to come, and provide them and their families with peace of mind.”
12.15.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1), announced today that he sent a letter to the U.S. Department of Justice Attorney General, Honorable Loretta Lynch, calling for a criminal investigation into the creation, operation and demise of Health Republic of New York. You can view a copy of the letter here: Rep. Zeldin letter to Attorney General.pdf
12.14.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, announced today that the Safe Bridges Act (H.R. 3168), bipartisan legislation he introduced in Congress to strengthen New York’s infrastructure, was signed into law by the President. Under MAP-21, a 2012 federal law, states, counties, towns and villages were cut off from the funding needed to repair and maintain bridges. According to the New York State Department of Transportation, New York received $271 million in federal funding for the Highway Bridge program in 2011. Due to the changes under MAP-21, New York State received $0 in Highway Bridge program funding in 2014. Congressman Zeldin’s Safe Bridges Act reforms federal highway law, ensuring our critical overpasses and bridges once again have access to this funding. Congressman Zeldin said, “It is great news for Long Islanders that the Safe Bridges Act was signed into law by the President. This new law will drive funding to our region to ensure our overpasses and bridges on Long Island are once again eligible for much needed federal funding. Under the Safe Bridges Act, over 80 bridges and overpasses across the First Congressional District will now be eligible for federal funding, a major win for Long Island.” “Our roads, overpasses, and bridges are essential to the Long Island economy, way of life and safety, and as a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I am proud to be working on a bipartisan basis to ensure states and local governments have more flexibility and resources necessary to strengthen our infrastructure,” Congressman Zeldin concluded. Congressman Zeldin introduced the Safe Bridges Act with Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY-18) on July 22, 2015. The Safe Bridges Act, which was included in the House highway bill, passed both the House and Senate, and was signed into law by the President on December 4, 2015.
12.11.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R - NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, today introduced the “Protect America Act of 2015” in the House of Representatives (H.R. 4237). The Protect America Act of 2015 would help prevent terrorists from buying firearms and explosives in the United States, while protecting the Second Amendment rights of law abiding Americans. The legislation would grant the Attorney General the authority to deny firearms and explosives to individuals who are engaged in terrorist activities, or where there is a reasonable belief that an individual may use a firearm or explosive in connection with terrorism. The legislation would also permit the Attorney General to revoke firearms and explosives licenses and permits held by individuals determined to be engaged in terrorism. The bill also takes necessary steps to implement due process of law requirements to protect law abiding Americans. Additionally, the proposal directs the Attorney General to review and verify the terrorist watch list and no fly list to remove the names of innocent Americans who are not connected to terrorism. Congressman Zeldin said, “The federal government must act to protect America, but it must act Constitutionally. My legislation would help prevent terrorists from purchasing firearms or explosives, while putting in place safeguards to ensure that the rights of law abiding Americans are protected. In addition to dangerous terrorist suspects, the terrorist watch list and no fly list include and have included infants, Ted Kennedy and other Members of Congress, U.S. Marshals, harmless service members, individuals with similar names, former college roommates of suspects, and other innocent Americans with no connection to terrorism. This bill gives the Department of Justice 90 days to review and verify these lists to ensure the removal of individuals who should have never been added in the first place." "It is unfortunate that some in Congress are pushing hard for an alternative that makes Americans guilty until proven innocent, denies necessary due process protections, and improperly targets law abiding citizens. If this issue is about good policy, and not about good politics, than those members must take the right next step and fully endorse this legislation to close the terror gap in U.S. laws," continued Congressman Zeldin. “Following the terror attack in San Bernardino, California, the largest ISIS inspired terrorist attack on American soil ever, we must also focus on improving the visa waiver program, stopping the influx of Syrian refugees due to current vulnerabilities in the vetting process, and defeating ISIS altogether. The greatest humanitarian and security victory for the homeland and abroad is to wipe ISIS off the face of the earth. There is no better way to protect the innocent as well as our own freedoms and liberties,” Congressman Zeldin concluded. *The “Protect America Act of 2015” is similar to language previously introduced in the Senate by Senator John Cornyn (R-TX). A copy of the bill can be found here: Protect America Act.pdf
12.07.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R - NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after confirmation today that Iran carried out a medium range ballistic missile test in violation of two United Nations Security Council resolutions: “Today’s reports by senior U.S. officials confirming that Iran has violated two UN resolutions is further evidence that there really is no deal between the United States and Iran. The Islamic Republic of Iran is already violating the agreement. Iran will not abide by the JCPOA. It's not too late yet for the administration to come to terms with this reality and move forward in a better direction for American security and the security of the free world."
12.07.2015	Riverhead, NY – Today, December 7, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R - NY-1) and Congressman Rob Bishop (R - UT-1), Chairman of the House Committee on Natural Resources, hosted a Full Committee oversight field hearing in Riverhead, NY, titled, “Restoring Atlantic Fisheries and Protecting the Regional Seafood Economy”. Also participating in the hearing were Congressman Tom MacArthur (D – NJ-3) and Congressman Jared Huffman (D – CA-2), both members of the House Committee on Natural Resources. The hearing was held to discuss important local fishing issues, including access to critical Atlantic fisheries and the impact and implementation of federal decision-making on the commercial and recreational fishing industry and local economies. There was a panel of witnesses from Long Island. Speakers included fisheries experts from government agencies, local elected officials, local environmental and civic groups, local fishermen, and concerned members of the community. “As a Representative of the East End of Long Island, a district that is surrounded by saltwater on three sides and has a robust fishing industry, protecting our marine environment and abundance of natural resources is one of my top priorities in Congress. Fishing and the maritime economy have been a key part of the economy, culture, and history of Long Island for centuries, and now more than ever, our fisheries and the dedicated men and women who work in this important industry face challenges that must be addressed,” stated Congressman Lee Zeldin. “In Congress, we must strike the right balance between a strong fishing economy and protecting our critical natural resources. Fairness, transparency, and giving a fishermen and boaters a seat at the table is why we are here today.” One focal point of the hearing was the possible designation by the Obama Administration of National Marine Monuments along the Atlantic Coast using the Antiquities Act, which would deny public input and usurp established habitat and fisheries management plans. Commercial and recreational fisheries stakeholders before the panel supported Committee efforts to ensure public input in future potential designations. “I know firsthand what happens when a President abuses the Antiquities Act against the wishes of local residents as a means of shutting off multiple uses of lands and waters. There’s a reason we have laws on the books to ensure federal management decisions are informed by experts at the regional level, in full consultation with states and local users – not under the cover of darkness,” Committee on Natural Resources Chairman Rob Bishop said. Click here to view the testimony.
12.06.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement following President Obama’s address tonight: “If ISIS is the JV team, President Obama is riding the bench at T-Ball today. Now is not the time for a lecture or deflection from the President. A muslim couple who were ISIS sympathizers just committed the largest ISIS inspired terrorist attack on American soil ever. They had 12 pipe bombs and an IED factory in their possession. It's important to point out that that's pretty darn illegal already. ISIS must be wiped off the face of the earth. The liberals in government and in the media just absolutely refuse to get to the heart of that reality and confront it head on. Their losing approach is the greatest victory that this terror group has achieved thus far in America. The President and his minions in Congress want to talk about anything else at all. So instead of trying to defeat people who want to kill them they instead want to try to defeat politically individuals who want to kill ISIS. If we do not defeat ISIS overseas, a group that cannot be contained, we will be facing the threat more and more at home. Radical Islamic extremism must be destroyed. Right now we do not have a plan to win. We are running in place at best. This isn't about trying to take out some of the bad guys and disrupting some of their command and control. This is about annihilating the threat. If we want to pursue related domestic priorities, it should start by fixing our visa waiver program and stopping the influx of Syrian refugees. That may not sound PC, but this is about securing our country, not winning the hearts and minds of the most out of touch bleeding heart liberal in our country. As far as our strategy overseas, another disappointing game being played is telling the American people that there will be no boots on the ground while placing boots on the ground at the same exact time. This shouldn't be about what rhetoric best serves domestic politics. This should be about which actions best serve our national security. Set up our troops to win or do not send them at all. Give their commanders the flexibility and resources to accomplish the mission. Don't limit the rules of engagement to tie their hands behind their back. We can and must win this effort. It's time to turn this around.”
12.04.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, announced today that he has secured the permanent removal of the Cross Sound Ferry trucking plan from the America’s Marine Highway Program. The Congressman worked directly with the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and U.S. Maritime Administration (MARAD) to amend the Cross Sound program to permanently remove all references to the misguided trucking provision, which would have rerouted thousands of trucks from I-95 in Connecticut to the North Fork through the Cross Sound Ferry. Congressman Zeldin said, “I am proud to announce that the misguided proposal to reroute thousands of trucks from I-95 in Connecticut to the North Fork via the Cross Sound Ferry was officially removed from both regional and federal transportation plans. While passenger ferries are an important part of the Long Island transportation and tourism economy, this particular plan was ill advised, as it obviously failed to properly assess the North Fork's road system, which is not equipped for the additional truck traffic, and was contrary to the goals of America’s Marine Highways.” Congressman Zeldin worked with local elected officials to have the Cross Sound Ferry trucking proposal removed from the Regional Freight Plan of NYMTC, the New York metro region’s transportation planning body. As a result of their direct advocacy, earlier this year, on April 23, 2015, the proposal to reroute trucks was officially removed from the NYMTC Regional Freight Plan. While this was removed from the regional plan, it was still included in the federal plan, which is why the Congressman also fought for the permanent removal of the proposal from the America’s Marine Highway Program. On Tuesday, May 12, 2015, Congressman Zeldin sent a letter to Anthony Foxx, Secretary of Transportation at the U.S. Department of Transportation, urging the permanent removal of the Cross Sound Ferry trucking plan from the America’s Marine Highway Program. After meeting with staff, and conducting a thorough review of the project, Secretary Foxx and federal Maritime Administrator Paul Jaenichen announced that the proposal has been officially removed from the federal plan; an important victory for north fork residents on Long Island. You can view a copy of the confirmation letter here: Response_11.30.2015_MARAD Administrator Paul Chip Jaenichen_Cross Sound Enhancement.pdf
12.04.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, and Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, released the following statement today regarding the terrorist attack in San Bernardino, California: “This is the largest ISIS inspired terrorist attack on American soil ever. ISIS must be destroyed overseas or we will be facing the threat more and more at home. America needs a strategy to win rather than trying to run in place at best. Throw away the obsession with prioritizing political correctness over the strongest and most effective possible pursuit of our national defense. It's time for America to toughen up, come to reality with the threat we are up against, and eliminate it. The best way to achieve peace is to wipe ISIS off the face of the earth. It is not to live on our heels sacrificing time and security while ISIS grows in strength, numbers and resources."
12.03.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, announced today that the United States House and Senate have agreed to a $305 billion, fully funded, five-year highway bill, following ten years of short term extensions. Congressman Zeldin also announced that the Safe Bridges Act (H.R. 3168), bipartisan legislation he introduced in Congress to strengthen New York’s infrastructure, has been included in the final highway bill. Congressman Zeldin said, “After ten years of short term extensions, the House and Senate will be passing a long-term highway bill that will provide critical funding for our transportation and infrastructure. The uncertainty which had come with ten years of short term patches, highlighted the need for a long term policy to provide the ability to pursue the vision of long term planning. This bipartisan package is a fully paid for, five-year bill that provides much needed transportation funding; and corrects the ongoing issue of sending a disproportionately greater amount of our tax dollars to Washington, DC, than is received in return on Long Island. This package also increases flexibility for states and municipal governments, and greatly expands local control over highway and transit programs. For New York, that means nearly $9 billion in federal highway dollars over the life of the bill—a ten percent increase from current levels.” Congressman Zeldin continued, “Within the legislation, I am proud to have secured my bipartisan proposal to reform federal highway law to drive funding to our region for local bridges on Long Island. The Safe Bridges Act will provide counties and municipalities on Long Island with access to critical federal funds to repair and maintain local bridges and infrastructure. Under the Safe Bridges Act, over 80 bridges or overpasses across the First Congressional District will once again be eligible for much needed funding.” Under MAP-21, a 2012 federal law, states, counties, towns and villages were cut off from the funding needed to repair and maintain bridges. According to the New York State Department of Transportation, New York received $271 million in federal funding for the Highway Bridge program in 2011. Due to the changes under MAP-21, New York State received $0 in Highway Bridge program funding in 2014. Congressman Zeldin’s Safe Bridges Act would reform federal highway law, ensuring our critical overpasses and bridges once again have access to this funding. “From improving transportation safety, to creating local jobs, and boosting our overall economy and quality of life, this highway bill is a huge legislative win for Long Island and I look forward to voting for its final passage,” Congressman Zeldin concluded. Congressman Zeldin introduced the Safe Bridges Act with Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY-18) on July 22, 2015. The Safe Bridges Act, which was included in the House highway bill, passed the House of Representatives by a bipartisan majority vote of 363-64. The final package of the highway bill will be voted on by both chambers as early as tomorrow. Following the expected passage by both the House and Senate, the highway bill will be sent to the President to be signed into law.
12.02.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) today announced that an amendment he introduced to the Student Success Act (H.R. 5), which passed the House of Representatives on July 8, 2015, was included in the final conference agreement between the Senate and House. The final legislation passed the House today, and will be sent to the President’s desk to be signed into law. The Zeldin Amendment would allow states to opt out of Common Core Standards, if they so choose, without fear that there will be any loss of federal funding as a result, bringing the control of education decisions back to the state and local level. “I’m proud to announce that The Zeldin Amendment has been passed by Congress and will now be sent to the President to become law; a huge legislative victory for states seeking to withdraw from Common Core,” said Congressman Zeldin. “One of the biggest arguments against the repeal of Common Core in New York State has been that New York would lose out on several hundred million, if not billions, of federal dollars. The Zeldin Amendment is the single most effective way for the federal government to permit New York and other states to withdraw from Common Core without fear that there will be any loss of federal funding as a result.” Congressman Zeldin continued, “Since Common Core standards were first implemented in New York, I’ve had countless conversations with a number of educators, parents and students, all of whom share my deep concerns with the lack of age appropriate material and the limited communication and coordination in the development of the standards, testing and curriculum. While I support higher standards in our schools, Common Core is not the answer.” Also contained in the conference agreement is a preventative measure, which Congressman Zeldin supports, to stop the federal government from penalizing states and school districts from opt outs. “Another important aspect in the fight to improve our education system is restoring local control and flexibility to our parents and local educators,” concluded Congressman Zeldin. “We must shift the focus in our classrooms from testing to teaching, to ensure our children never lose their love of learning. As a father, and a Representative for Long Island, one of my top priorities in Congress will always be to seek solutions to strengthen our nation’s education system.”
12.02.2015	Washington, DC — On Monday, December 1, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C—NY-1) met with Jim Craig, goalie of the 1980 USA Olympic hockey team. Jim Craig was in Washington, DC, to raise awareness of bipartisan legislation Congressman Zeldin introduced in the House of Representatives to protect people with disabilities (H.R. 3229). Pictured above in the U.S. Capitol, from left to right, are House Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R – UT-3), Jim Craig, Congressman Zeldin and Mike Swinford, CEO of Numotion.
11.30.2015	Washington, DC – Congressmen Lee Zeldin (R-N.Y.), joined with Congressmen Mike Pompeo (R-Kan.), Peter Roskam (R-Ill.), and today sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry regarding recent reports that contradict the Obama administration’s promise that the Iran nuclear agreement would not be implemented, nor would Iran receive sanctions relief, until the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) had resolved its issues with the Possible Military Dimensions (PMD) of Iran’s nuclear program. In the letter, the three Republican lawmakers call on Kerry to explain these contradictory statements – clarifying whether the administration has backtracked on its promise – and provide a written explanation of the administration’s position on the necessity of resolving the PMD issue before implementing the agreement and relieving sanctions on Iran. The full text of the letter can be found here: 30NOV15 Letter to Kerry Re JCPOA.pdf.
11.30.2015	What: Congressman Lee Zeldin (R - NY-1) and Congressman Rob Bishop (R - UT-1), Chairman of the House Committee on Natural Resources, will be hosting a Full Committee oversight field hearing in Riverhead, NY, titled, “Restoring Atlantic Fisheries and Protecting the Regional Seafood Economy”. There will be a panel of witnesses from the local Long Island community to discuss important local fishing issues. When: Monday, December 7, 2015 at 10:00 AM Where: The Multipurpose Room at the Suffolk County Community College Culinary Arts Center, 20 E. Main Street, Riverhead, NY. Who: Congressman Lee Zeldin; Chairman Rob Bishop; fisheries experts from government agencies; local elected officials; local environmental and civic groups; local fishermen; and concerned members of the community. All members of the public and press are invited to attend.
11.23.2015	Stony Brook, NY— On Friday, November 20, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C—NY-1) addressed students as a guest lecturer at a Stony Brook University American Government class. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above during the address.
11.23.2015	Patchogue, NY— On Friday, November 20, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C—NY-1), member of the House of Representatives' Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, hosted a community summit to discuss the rise of drug abuse on Long Island, as well as education, treatment and prevention efforts. The event was held at Patchogue-Medford High School and featured a panel, pictured above, of parents, educators, healthcare professionals, law enforcement officials, local elected officials and recovering substance abusers.
11.23.2015	Smithtown, NY— On Friday, November 20, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C—NY-1), met with Boy Scouts of America Cub Scout Pack 340 of Smithtown Elementary, where he discussed his role in the community and answered any questions the group had about important issues facing our community. The Congressman is pictured above with Cub Scout Pack 340.
11.18.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, and Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, announced today that he has cosponsored seven important pieces of legislation that would stop the influx of Syrian refugees into the United States, especially as a result of the fact that the federal government is not prepared to sufficiently vet these individuals. Congressman Zeldin has cosponsored: -The Refugee Resettlement Oversight and Security Act of 2015 (H.R.3573), which would allow Congress to block any inadequate refugee resettlement plan put forward by the President and ensure the Department of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Director of National Intelligence and FBI, provide new security assurances before admitting refugees into the country. Additionally, this legislation calls for the Governmental Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct a sweeping review of security gaps in the current refugee screening process. -The Resettlement Accountability National Security Act of 2015 (H.R.3314), which would immediately stop the resettlement of Syrian refugees in the United States until the GAO is able to complete a thorough examination on the costs to the federal, state and local government. -The American SAFE Act of 2015 (H.R.3999) would require the Secretary of Homeland Security to certify that any refugee being admitted to the United States from Iraq or Syria are not security threats to the United States. -The States’ Right of Refugee Refusal Act (H.R.4032), which would provide Governors with the option to “opt out” of participating in the Refugee Resettlement Program if they so choose. -The American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act of 2015 (H.R. 4038) would stop the resettlement of Syrian refugees in the United States until the nation’s top security officials, including the FBI Director, Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Inspector General, can certify the integrity of background checks, and are able to declare each refugee, individually, does not pose a threat to the United States. -The Defund the Syrian Refugee Resettlement Program Act of 2015 (H.R. 4031), which would completely eliminate funding for the Syrian Refugee Resettlement program. -Legislation that would prohibit federal tax dollars from being used to admit refugees from Syria to the United States (HR 4025). Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “The President’s current plan to accept Syrian refugees must be halted, especially, and so importantly, because we cannot identify the bad ones. I will continue to pursue any and all legislative options to prevent the President from accepting these refugees, until Congress and the American people know with confidence that they do not pose a threat. The best humanitarian victory for the innocent is to wipe out ISIS altogether.” Monday evening, Congressman Zeldin spoke about this topic on the House floor. You can view his speech here.
11.17.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, and Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, spoke on the House floor last night about last Friday's terror attacks in Paris, the need to defeat ISIS, and how we must not move forward with President's strategy to bring in several tens of thousands of Syrian refugees. You can watch it here.
11.16.2015	Hauppauge, NY— On Tuesday, November 10, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C—NY-1) attended a Veterans Day Assembly at Hauppauge School District’s Bretton Woods Elementary School. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with the Hauppauge Superintendent of Schools Patricia Sullivan-Kriss.
11.13.2015	Long Island, NY—Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C—NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement in response to the terror attacks tonight in Paris: “Tonight, my thoughts and prayers are with the victims, their families, and the people of France in the aftermath of the horrific terror attacks that shocked the world this evening in Paris. This tragic attack is not just an attack on France; but an attack on all free nations across the world. Together, as a united nation, we join with our allies across the world to condemn the brutal and savage tactics of extremist groups that oppose the basic freedoms and liberties of the free world. This devastating attack is just one of many examples of why we need a stronger, more consistent foreign policy and terror-fighting policy; and serves as a reminder that as a global community we must always remain ever vigilant."
11.11.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) today released the following statement on Veterans Day: “When conflict has arisen around the world, our nation has always been blessed with brave men and women who have answered the call to service. Everything that makes America so great is a result of their courage, sacrifice and commitment to protecting our constitution, freedoms and liberties. Former President Ronald Reagan once said, “Above all, we must realize that no arsenal, or no weapon in the arsenals of the world, is so formidable as the will and moral courage of free men and women. It is a weapon our adversaries in today's world do not have. It is a weapon that we as Americans do have.” President Reagan spoke of the devotion and love of country of those brave American heroes willing to lay down their lives in defense of a cause greater than themselves. Today, on Veterans Day, I extend my sincerest gratitude to all of our nation's veterans and service members, and honor the millions of brave military men and women who willingly and selflessly put their lives on the line while defending our great country. As a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee and an Army Reservist, and as a Representative of Suffolk County, which has the highest veterans population of any county in New York and the second largest veterans population of any county in America, fighting for our veterans who fought for us must always be a highest priority.”
11.10.2015	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1), Member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, announced today that the Peconic Bay Medical Center (PBMC) based in Riverhead, has just been approved as a new member of the Choice Program under the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The Choice Program provides veterans, who are enrolled within the program, with an option to receive healthcare from non-VA facilities. Two eligibility standards require that a veteran has been, or will be, waiting more than 30 days to receive healthcare at a VA medical facility; or the veteran lives more than 40 miles away from a VA medical care facility, or is faced with substantial travel burdens. Additional information is available by phone at 1-866-606-8198, and online at https://www.va.gov/healthbenefits/apps/choice. PBMC can also be reached directly at 631-548-6827.Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “One of my top priorities in Congress is ensuring our veterans have access to the highest quality of healthcare. Since the beginning of the year, I have been working closely with Peconic Bay Medical Center and the Department of Veterans Affairs to increase access to care for veterans who live on Long Island's East End. Peconic Bay Medical Center, as an organization under the VA Choice Program, is an important new healthcare option for veterans, while still allowing them to continue receiving other services and ongoing treatment at the VA Hospital in Northport.”Andrew Mitchell, President and CEO of Peconic Bay Medical Center, said “Creating medical access and assisting with travel time for the Veterans on the East End is a benefit to our community. We are excited and proud to be able to offer convenient healthcare access to our deserving Veterans.” “I am pleased to learn that Peconic Bay Medical Center has joined the growing ranks of private health providers on Long Island registered under the Veterans Choice Program, which offers veterans expanded access to care, when indicated,” said Philip Moschitta, Director, Northport VA Medical Center.
11.09.2015	Cutchogue, NY— On Friday, November 6, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C—NY-1) spoke at the Peconic Land Trust’s Public Policy Committee as their Guest Presenter. The Congressman provided an update on environmental conservation efforts in Congress.
11.06.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, questioned key witnesses this week at a Full Committee hearing entitled, “Testimony of Subpoenaed Witnesses on the Department of Veterans Affairs Alleged Misuse of Relocation Program and Incentives.” Witnesses from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs included Mr. Danny Pummill, Principal Deputy Under Secretary for Benefits, Veterans Benefits Administration; Ms. Diana Rubens, Director, Philadelphia and Wilmington Regional Offices, Veterans Benefits Administration; Mr. Robert McKenrick, Director, Los Angeles Regional Office, Veterans Benefit Administration; Ms. Kimberly Graves Director, St. Paul Regional Office, Veterans Benefit Administration; Mr. Antione Waller, Director, Baltimore Regional Office, Veterans Benefit Administration; Ms. Linda Halliday, Deputy Inspector General, Office of Inspector General; and The Honorable Allison Hickey, Former Under Secretary for Benefits, Veterans Benefits Administration. You can watch it here.
11.05.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C, Shirley- NY 1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, announced today that bipartisan legislation he introduced in Congress, the Safe Bridges Act (H.R. 3168) to strengthen New York’s infrastructure, which was added to the House Surface Transportation Reauthorization Act under section 1105 (i) of the bill, passed the House of Representatives by an overwhelming majority vote of 363-64. Passage of the House Surface Transportation Reauthorization Act, a six year bill, comes after ten years of short term extensions. The New York State Department of Transportation reports that more than one-third of New York State’s 17,000 bridges are in need of repair. Furthermore, of the 17,000 bridges in New York, the majority were built in the 20th century, with over 50% of bridges over 75 years old. Under a 2012 federal law, MAP-21, states, counties, towns and villages were cut off from critical funding to repair and maintain bridges. According to the New York State Department of Transportation, New York received $271 million in federal funding for the Highway Bridge program in 2011. Due to changes in MAP-21, New York State received $0 in Highway Bridge program funding in 2014. Congressman Zeldin said, “After ten years of short term extensions, I am proud to announce that the House has passed the Surface Transportation Reauthorization Act, which provides long-term funding for our transportation and infrastructure. This highway bill is critical for long term planning of projects months and years into the future. I am especially proud to announce that my bipartisan bill to reform federal highway law and secure funding for our local bridges was included in this highway bill. The Safe Bridges Act provides counties and municipalities on Long Island with access to critical federal funds to repair and maintain our local bridges and infrastructure, ensuring over 80 bridges or overpasses across the First Congressional District are once again eligible for much needed funding. In Congress, I have been a vocal supporter of increasing state flexibility and local control, to allow funds to flow more efficiently to the right projects, strengthening our infrastructure and improving transportation safety, job creation, and our overall economy and quality of life. As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, one of my top priorities in Congress is, and always will be, to address New York’s transportation and infrastructure needs.” Congressman Zeldin introduced the Safe Bridges Act with Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY-18) on July 22, 2015. Since the bill’s introduction, Congressman Zeldin has been advocating for a vote on this critical piece of legislation, recently joining with local elected officials, organizations, and members of the community to bring awareness to his bill and urge a vote in Congress. The United States Senate also passed their own bipartisan surface transportation bill this summer, so now both the House and Senate will go to conference to resolve any remaining differences in the two versions and send a final package to the President.
11.04.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) announced that he has joined the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, which currently has over 30 members. The task force will host their first briefing during the week of November 16, 2015. “Our communities and families on Long Island have been severely impacted by the rise of prescription drug abuse and the growing heroin epidemic,” said Congressman Zeldin. “I am deeply concerned with the drug crisis on Long Island, which is why combating the rise of drug abuse is of paramount concern to me in Congress. I am proud to join the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic, which will focus on finding solutions, spreading awareness and increasing educational efforts; as well as hearing from affected families and individuals sharing their input.” In Washington, Congressman Zeldin cosponsors The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2015 (H.R. 953), which will help provide Long Island residents suffering from drug abuse with the services they need to guide them on the road to recovery. This legislation would provide up to $80 million in funding to help prevent and treat addiction through community-based education and preventative programs, and treatment and recovery programs. The grants made available through this bill would also provide the funding necessary to expand prescription drug monitoring programs in states. Additionally, the funding would provide our police force and emergency medical responders with higher supplies of Naloxone, a prescription drug proven to reverse an opioid overdose. Congressman Zeldin also cosponsors The Stop Overdose Stat (SOS) Act (H.R. 2850), which would provide an additional $25 million over a 5 year period for Naloxone production and distribution, to help increase the supply, and provide more medical professionals and families with this life saving drug. The SOS Act will also establish a preventative research task force, which will be established to research ways to prevent future overdose deaths, taking a preventative approach against drug abuse. In an effort to address this epidemic, Congressman Zeldin will be hosting a free public community summit on November 20, 2015 from 5:00 PM to 6:30 PM at Patchogue-Medford High School, which is located at 181 Buffalo Ave, Medford, NY 11763. The community summit will provide members of the community with an opportunity to express their thoughts and concerns on the rise of drug abuse on Long Island, as well as discuss treatment and prevention efforts with a panel of parents, educators, healthcare professionals, law enforcement officials, local elected officials and recovering substance abusers. Congressman Zeldin concluded, “I will continue to support legislation aimed at increasing treatment and recovery services, and providing the proper education and resources at a local level on Long Island and across New York State, and look forward to hosting a community summit on this issue. Together, as a community, we can reverse the growing drug crisis we’ve seen on Long Island and across the country.”
10.29.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C, Shirley- NY 1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, announced today that bipartisan legislation he introduced in Congress, the Safe Bridges Act (H.R. 3168) to strengthen New York’s infrastructure, has been added to the House Surface Transportation Reauthorization Act under section 1105 (i) of the bill. Congressman Zeldin introduced the legislation with Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY-18). Under a 2012 federal law, MAP-21, states, counties, towns and villages were cut off from critical funding to repair and maintain bridges. The Safe Bridges Act will reform federal highway law to make our critical overpasses and bridges once again eligible for funding. According to the New York State Department of Transportation, New York received $271 million in federal funding for the Highway Bridge program in 2011. Due to changes in MAP-21, New York State received $0 in Highway Bridge program funding in 2014. Upon passage in the House, the Safe Bridges Act would once again provide counties and municipalities on Long Island with access to critical federal funds to repair and maintain our local bridges and infrastructure. Congressman Zeldin said, “As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I am proud to announce that my bipartisan bill to reform federal highway law has been included in the House Surface Transportation Reauthorization Act. Right now, much of our infrastructure on Long Island is in need of additional support. Under the Safe Bridges Act, our critical overpasses and bridges will once again have access to the federal funding needed to repair and strengthen our infrastructure; as well as improve our economy, community safety and overall quality of life. One of my top priorities in Congress is strengthening New York’s transportation and infrastructure, which is why I am proud to lead this effort in the House and will continue to push for passage of this legislation.” “While municipalities across New York State are struggling to maintain government services without raising taxes, it is very difficult to fund local infrastructure improvements,” said Daniel P. Losquadro, Brookhaven Town Superintendent of Highways. “This also comes at a time when the increase in population and the associated increase in traffic on our local roadways have far surpassed the capabilities of our infrastructure. The legislation Congressman Zeldin is putting forward is an important step in the right direction.” "Lee Zeldin continues to be a leader and champion for infrastructure funding for Long Island. I applaud his Safe Bridges Act and I am proud to join with him in announcing that Long Island will now be the recipient of overdue federal funding for our bridges and roads. Thanks to Congressman Zeldin's efforts, this vital funding will improve the quality of our lives ever day through improved roads, safer bridges and by boosting the infrastructure efforts by our county, towns and villages. That means more jobs and a significant boost to our local economy," said Senator Tom Croci. Senator Ken LaValle said, “I am pleased that Congressman Zeldin was successful in having the Safe Bridges Act incorporated into the House Surface Transportation Reauthorization Act. I look forward to working with him to restore the federal funding necessary to keep the roads, overpasses and bridges safe for our residents.” Brookhaven Town Supervisor Ed Romaine said, "Congressman Zeldin is a strong proponent of making our aging infrastructure safe while at the same time creating much needed jobs for our work force. I am in full support of the Safe Bridges Act and I thank the Congressman for all that he does to improve the quality of life for Brookhaven residents and every American citizen." "Congressman Zeldin is clearly in touch with the needs of this Town," commented Brookhaven Town Councilman Dan Panico. "This legislation to allow for the investment in our region's infrastructure offers the promise of hope for federal aid for our ailing and aged overpasses and bridges." “We are glad to see that Representative Zeldin’s tireless work and commitment to Long Island’s infrastructure and the safety of its residents has been recognized by the federal government by including his Safe Bridges Act in the House Surface Transportation Reauthorization Act,” said Marc Herbst, Executive Director, Long Island Contractors’ Association. “This brings Long Island’s infrastructure crisis one step closer to receiving the appropriate support needed in order to repair over a century of neglect and at the same time provide a much needed boost to the economy.” Desmond Ryan, Executive Director of ABLI, said, “Congressman Zeldin’s legislation, now included in the House Surface Transportation Reauthorization Act, would provide our community with access to critical funding to strengthen Long Island’s infrastructure. On behalf of ABLI, I would like to express my strong support and commend Congressman Zeldin for his leadership on this important initiative in Congress.” Dick O’Kane of the Nassau-Suffolk Building and Construction Trades Council said, “Our infrastructure has been in bad shape for far too long and I am thankful that Congressman Zeldin’s Safe Bridges Act is now included in the House Surface Transportation Reauthorization Act. It is an essential piece of legislation to strengthen the infrastructure here on Long Island. I thank Congressman Zeldin for recognizing the need for the Safe Bridges Act and urge Congress to pass this very important legislation.” “In a Congress far too often criticized for not paying attention to basic infrastructure needs, Congressman Zeldin has demonstrated the skill, acumen and Washington diplomacy required to secure funds for this critical need. On behalf of the millions of motorists who will benefit, including those in New York, he deserves our thanks,” said William K. Duffy, Jr., President of the IUOE Local 138, 138A, 138B &138C. Debra Hagan, President of the TWU Local 252, said, “Transport Workers Union of America AFL-CIO Local 252 representing 4,000 members on Long Island appreciate the efforts of Congressman Lee Zeldin to protect the safety and well being of all Long Islanders with the Safe Bridges Act that will provide much needed funding to the towns and municipalities for bridge and overpass repairs. Local 252 members transport 10's of thousands of school age children as well as the public on transit buses daily over these roadways and support Congressman Zeldin's efforts to secure their safety.”
10.23.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee and Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee, sent a joint letter to a number of Ambassadors in the Middle East with fellow House Republican Israel Caucus co-chairmen, Representatives Peter Roskam (R – IL-6), Leonard Lance (R – NJ-7) and Doug Lamborn (R – CO-5) to express their grave concerns and opposition with the “Occupied Palestine” resolution submitted by their Middle East governments and adopted by the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “Just a few months ago, I was standing in the same exact streets in Jerusalem that the world is now watching horrific acts of violence occur. It's absolutely tragic that our allies in Israel must live in fear each and every day. The attacks against innocent Israelis are violent acts of terrorism that do nothing but hinder any chance of peace between Israel and the Palestinian Authority. The governments in the region should be doing everything they can to stop the violence and work towards a peaceful solution; not advocate for continued loan wolf terror attacks against Israelis, while introducing a resolution that rewrites history, wrongly condemns Israel and falsely accuses them of terrorism. This resolution should be condemned by the entire global community, and the Arab world can and should play an important and constructive role in bringing peace to the Middle East.” You can view a copy of the letters here: UNESCO_Letters.pdf
10.22.2015	Patchogue, NY– Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, today announced $1,235,184.50 in federal funding to repair Mascot Dock, which is located at the end of South Ocean Avenue in Patchogue Village. Parts of the dock, including the boardwalk, were severely damaged during Super Storm Sandy and Tropical Storm Irene. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “I am proud to announce that Patchogue will receive the necessary funding to repair and restore Mascot Dock, a recreational spot for local residents that draws visitors from across Long Island. Unfortunately, parts of the dock were severely damaged during Sandy and Irene. Through the federal funding secured, Patchogue Village will now have the funding needed to rebuild the boardwalk, as well as install new lighting, curbing, benches, and garbage cans, ensuring Mascot Dock is fully repaired and restored. Long Island is still recovering from the storms that devastated our communities over the past few years, but this funding will go a long way to protect, restore and strengthen our local community so that Long Island can rebuild stronger than before.” Patchouge Mayor, Paul Pontieri, said, “For generations the Mascot Dock was that place that the residents of Patchogue came to go fishing, crabbing or just relaxing…Super Storm Sandy took that from us. With funds secured by Congressman Zeldin we will be able to rebuild, the Mascot Dock in manner that it will be able withstand future storms and provide the future generations that perfect place to spend a quiet afternoon relaxing and enjoying Patchogue at its best.” The federal grant was secured through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
10.20.2015	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) announced today that he has introduced bipartisan legislation in the House of Representatives to protect people with disabilities by ensuring they have access to vital equipment (H.R. 3229). The Congressman’s legislation, which clarifies the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act (MIPPA) of 2008, is a critical measure to secure the essential specialized power wheelchairs and related services relied on by people with disabilities and their families. Under MIPPA, complex rehabilitation technology devices would be excluded from the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Competitive Bidding Program to ensure consistent and fair prices for consumers. Excluded devices include power wheelchairs and related accessories, which are the fundamental parts of the products that make them useful and beneficial to people with progressed disabilities—such as recline/tilt systems, specialty controls and seat/back cushions. Recently, in November of 2014, CMS issued a ruling contrary to MIPPA, which stated that starting in January of 2016, accessories that are used on complex rehabilitative wheelchairs will no longer be a part of the fixed fee schedule, but will now be subject to competitive bidding pricing, which will decrease access to the individually configured wheelchairs and accessories relied on by adults and children with disabilities. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “I am proud to introduce legislation in Congress to ensure those with disabilities can access the complex rehabilitative equipment they require to meet their medical needs and to function at the highest level possible. The recent diversion from the set policy that has been in place for over 6 years will adversely affect those dealing with the challenges from disabilities such as ALS, Cerebral Palsy, Multiple Sclerosis, Spinal Cord Injury, and many other debilitating illnesses. My legislation will provide a commonsense clarification to existing law to ensure that those in the Medicare program do not have to go through the difficulty of adjusting to new rules and pricing arbitrarily reached by CMS to receive equipment that they need. Providing support for those who need it the most has been a principle Americans have stood by for generations. We have always fought to safeguard others both at home and abroad throughout the centuries, and we must continue to help the many vulnerable men and women who are living with disabilities.” H.R. 3229 has strong bipartisan support in Congress with over 30 cosponsors. The legislation is also fully supported by the ALS Association, Muscular Dystrophy Association, National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Paralyzed Veterans of America, VetsFirst and the United Spinal Association. “H.R. 3229 is critically needed to ensure that people with ALS continue to have access to the complex rehabilitative technologies that play such an important role in their fight against the disease,” said Pat Wildman, Vice President of Public Policy for The ALS Association. “We appreciate Representative Zeldin introducing this legislation and urge Members of Congress to support this bill and stand up for their constituents who rely on these technologies each and every day of their lives.” Kristin Stephenson, Vice President of Policy & Advocacy for the Muscular Dystrophy Association said, “Access to complex wheelchairs and accessories is of critical importance to those living with muscular dystrophy, ALS and other neuromuscular diseases,” explains Kristin Stephenson, Vice President of Policy & Advocacy for the Muscular Dystrophy Association, “which is why MDA is pleased to support H.R. 3229 and applauds Representative Zeldin for his leadership on this issue." Robin D'Andrea, Chair of Government Relations for the National Multiple Sclerosis Society Long Island Chapter said, “The National Multiple Sclerosis Society strongly supports H.R. 3229, which would prevent application of competitive bidding rates to complex rehabilitative wheelchairs and accessories. Complex rehab accessories are vital to meeting the medical needs of people with progressed multiple sclerosis (MS) and keeping healthcare costs down, as well as helping people with MS to remain independent and active. We thank Representative Zeldin for his personal commitment and leadership on this issue." Lee Page, Senior Associate Advocacy Director of the Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA) said, “H.R. 3229 is critical to protect access to complex rehabilitative wheelchairs and accessories. These items are vital to keeping paralyzed veterans and other people with catastrophic spinal cord injuries healthy and independent and PVA thanks Representative Zeldin for introducing this important legislation." Alexandra Bennewith, Vice President, Government Relations at United Spinal Association and Ross Meglathery, Director, VetsFirst, a program of United Spinal Association said, “We are proud to support the Congressman’s legislation H.R. 3229; and thank him for leading the initiative in Congress to legislate a technical correction ensuring that accessories used with complex rehab power and manual wheelchairs continue to be covered under Medicare’s established fee schedule amounts.” You can view a copy of the bill here.
10.19.2015	Hampton Bays, NY— On Saturday, October 17, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C—NY-1) attended the 5th Annual San Gennaro Feast of the Hamptons in Hampton Bays. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with his daughter, Mikayla; Damon Hagan and John Zuccarelli, a resident of Hampton Bays.
10.19.2015	Center Moriches, NY— On Saturday, October 17, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C—NY-1) attended the Center Moriches Chamber of Commerce’s Annual Fall Fair on Main Street. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with members of the Center Moriches Fire Department including Captain Dean Madison, Glenn Madison, and Gavin Barnett.
10.19.2015	Riverhead, NY – On Wednesday, October 14, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) surprised Riverhead Free Library Director, Joy Rankin, with a visit to the library's board meeting. At the meeting, the Congressman presented Ms. Rankin with an American Flag that was flown over the U.S. Capitol in honor of all the great work the library does on behalf of veterans. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with Ms. Rankin and members of the Library Board.
10.17.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) joined with the entire New York Congressional Delegation to establish a Cyber Operations Squadron within the Air National Guard (ANG) in New York State. As a result of Congressman Zeldin's direct advocacy, the request now includes as a possible location the 106th Air Rescue Wing, based at Francis S. Gabreski Airport in Westhampton. The Air National Guard is currently looking to develop four Cyber Operation Squadrons in the United States. The New York delegation just sent a joint letter to the Director of the Air National Guard, Lieutenant General Stanley E. Clarke, and the Commander of U.S. Cyber Command, Admiral Michael Rogers, highlighting the unique role New York, as a financial hub, leader in the cyber security field, and a terror target, can play in the military’s expanding cyber mission. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “Establishing a cyber security team in New York would greatly expand the tools available in order to rapidly respond to the diverse range of cyber threats that New York faces on any given day, as well as improve our ability to react quickly and effectively to cyber threats. The New York Air National Guard, which plays a critical role in our nation’s security, is the largest Air Guard unit in the country. New York already has the existing infrastructure needed to establish an Air National Guard Cyber Operations Squadron. The 106th Air Rescue Wing on Long Island would be the perfect location to strengthen the state's developing network of cyber and information assurance expertise.” You can view a copy of the letter here: NYDel Cyber Air National Guard Team - Oct 2015.pdf.
10.15.2015	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C, - NY-1) just released the following statement regarding the terror uprising in Jerusalem targeting innocent Israelis and the Obama administration's response. Congressman Zeldin serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee, and Terrorism, Non-Proliferation and Trade Subcommittee. Rep. Zeldin also serves as Co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus. "It is absolutely disgusting and shameful that the Obama Administration not only refuses to stand strong with our ally in Israel, but actually has the audacity to claim that the Israelis are guilty of terrorism. It was just 2 months ago when I walked these same Jerusalem streets where we are witnessing brutal terror attacks today. I'm praying for peace and strength for Israelis to overcome this new challenge. Israel is an important and strategic ally of the United States. The bond should be made stronger, not weaker, from America's response. It is embarrassing and harmful that State Department Spokesman John Kirby is now claiming that Israel is guilty of terrorism. It's simply not true and dangerously creates more daylight between the United States and Israel during this critical time of need for our trusted friend and ally. Admiral Kirby's accusation warrants his immediate removal. He should absolutely not utter one more word on behalf of America's foreign policy. If Secretary John Kerry refuses to speak out and discipline Mr. Kirby than Secretary Kerry needs to step aside as well. Innocent Israelis are being attacked and murdered by terrorists. We must stand with Israel now more than ever. We must not turn a blind eye towards the reality that the Palestinian Authority is becoming increasingly controlled by Hamas, a terror group that will not rest until Israel is wiped off the map. The PA must root out Hamas and other terror elements from it's ranks. This past August, I personally sat down with the Prime Minister of the PA in Ramallah to share these concerns and I left even less confident that he had any intention of cracking down on this terror aspect, which is a critically important step to secure peace with Israel. Again, this is not about the U.S. fighting Israel's battles for them. This is about the shameful, reluctance of the Obama administration to strengthen relationships with allies around the globe like Israel because of a twisted understanding of who America's friends are and who are our enemies.”
10.13.2015	Bridgehampton, NY – On Sunday, October 11, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) attended the 10th Anniversary celebration of the Children’s Museum of the East End (CMEE), where he recognized Steve Long, President of CMEE, for all of his leadership at the museum. During his remarks, Congressman Zeldin announced $55,640 in federal funding for CMEE. The funding will be used to implement the new Science Connections program, which will provide Long Island children with an opportunity to learn more about the study of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) through a fun and unique approach. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, left, with the President of CMEE, Steve Long, right, along with Steve’s son.
10.13.2015	Riverhead, NY – On Sunday, October 11, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) attended the 40th Annual Riverhead Country Fair. The Congressman is pictured above addressing the crowd during the event.
10.13.2015	Bellport, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C, Shirley- NY 1), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, was joined today by Brookhaven Town Highway Superintendent Dan Losquadro, other local elected officials, local organizations, and members of the Brookhaven Town Highway Department to discuss the Safe Bridges Act (H.R. 3168), bipartisan legislation he introduced in Congress to strengthen New York’s infrastructure. Due to changes made in a 2012 federal law, MAP-21, overpasses owned by the state or county had been cut off from critical federal funding necessary for maintenance and repair. Congressman Zeldin introduced the Safe Bridges Act with Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY-18) to address this issue. The Safe Bridges Act would provide counties and municipalities the funds needed to fix our nation’s bridges and infrastructure by reforming federal highway law to make our critical overpasses and bridges once again eligible for funding. You can view the bill text here. The New York State Department of Transportation reports that more than one-third of New York State’s 17,000 bridges are in need of repair. 2,016 of these bridges have been graded as “structurally deficient”, meaning significant maintenance is required to remain in service and will eventually require total rehabilitation, and 4,735 have been graded as “functionally obsolete”, meaning current traffic demand is too much for the structure. Furthermore, of the 17,000 bridges in New York, the majority were built in the 20th century, with over 50% of bridges over 75 years old. On Long Island, there are a total of 688 bridges. Of these bridges, 18 have been declared structurally deficient and 426 have been listed as functionally obsolete. The Safe Bridges Act would restore critical federal funding for 82 bridges or overpasses across the First Congressional District. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “Our roads, overpasses, and bridges are essential to the Long Island economy and the safety of our community, but unfortunately, much of our infrastructure is in need of additional support. As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I am proud to introduce this bipartisan bill that will reform federal highway law to make our critical overpasses and bridges once again eligible for the federal funding needed to strengthen our infrastructure. In Congress, I have been a vocal supporter of increasing state flexibility and local control so that funding flows more efficiently to the right projects to strengthen our infrastructure and improve transportation safety, job creation, and our overall economy and quality of life. Ensuring New York’s transportation and infrastructure are strong for the millions who depend on it is a top priority and I am proud to lead this effort in the House.” "At all levels of government we are working together to rebuild our infrastructure in order to make it easier for working families on Long Islanders to commute, to make our infrastructure safer during storms and to create jobs and fuel our economy. We are fortunate to have Congressman Zeldin fighting for New York and introduce this important legislation. It will have a real impact on out regions' infrastructure and quality of life for Long Islanders," said Senator Tom Croci. Senator Ken LaValle said, “There is a great need to maintain our infrastructure to ensure safe travel for Long Islanders. Congressman Zeldin’s bipartisan legislation would restore the federal funding necessary to keep the roads, overpasses and bridges safe for our residents.” Assemblyman Dean Murray said, "As a member of the NYS Assembly's Transportation Committee, I know how very important it is for us to focus on infrastructure improvement and safety. I thank Congressman Zeldin not only for recognizing the importance of this issue but also for his ongoing efforts to take action." "Our aging infrastructure is in great need of attention with many bridges and overpasses requiring considerable maintenance or total reconstruction," said Brookhaven Town Supervisor Ed Romaine. "I am in full support of Congressman Zeldin's bill and I ask my colleagues across Long Island to do the same.” Brookhaven Town Councilman Dan Panico said, "I commend Congressman Lee Zeldin for taking the initiative to rebuild the critical infrastructure of our region. One of the best investments we can make for the residents of our communities is in our infrastructure. Throughout history, investments in infrastructure have always spurred economic activity and provided good paying jobs for our workers." Desmond Ryan, Executive Director of ABLI, said, “Congressman Zeldin’s legislation would provide our community with access to critical funding to strengthen Long Island’s infrastructure. On behalf of ABLI, I would like to express my strong support and thank Congressman Zeldin for his leadership on this important initiative in Congress.” “I commend Congressman Zeldin on his efforts to address New York’s ailing infrastructure,” said Mike Elmendorf, President and CEO of the Associated General Contractors of New York State. “Roads and bridges are the lifeline to New York’s economy. New York can’t be open for business if its roads and bridges are closed. AGC looks forward to working with Congressman Zeldin to support his plan which will create jobs, improve safety, and make New York competitive again.” “Congressman Lee Zeldin is forcing the House of Representatives to come to grips with the simple but devastating fact that our nation’s infrastructure has become a political orphan. While other nations that seek to dominate the 21st Century pour billions into their roads, bridges, seaports and rail, our Congress applies hopeless band aids to funding our infrastructure. “Safe Bridges” seeks to confront that crisis and we stand with Congressman Zeldin in demanding action that will strengthen our infrastructure and protect our future,” said William K. Duffy, Jr., President of IUOE Local 138. Debra Hagan, President, TWU Local 252, said, “TWU Local 252 knows the importance of the Surface Transportation Bill which provides the funds to maintain our roadways, bridges and tunnels. Here on Long Island our roadways and overpasses are in great need of repair. Local 252 members operate the buses that provide transportation to the public as well as transporting thousands of school children daily over these roadways and overpasses. We are pleased to see that our Congressman Lee Zeldin also recognizes the importance of this bill and its effect on Long Island and labor.”
10.12.2015	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R-NY), Congressman Peter Roskam (R-IL), and Congressman Mike Pompeo (R-KS) released the following statement after reports that Washington Post reporter Jason Rezaian was convicted of espionage charges in Iran: "The tyrannical regime in Tehran has once again shown the world its true colors with the sham conviction of an innocent American. Jason Rezaian was detained, arrested, tried, and now convicted for doing what journalists the world over do freely every day—researching and reporting on the facts. We urge the Obama Administration not to lift any economic sanctions until Iran vacates this absurd judgment and releases all four Americans wrongly imprisoned by Iran. It is disgusting to reward a country that so brazenly violates international law and abuses our fellow citizens. The lives of Jason Rezaian, Amir Hekmati, Saeed Abedini, and Robert Levinson should not be a "concession" in President Obama's Iran deal."
10.07.2015	Washington, DC –The Nature Conservancy recognized Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) yesterday with its “Supporter of Nature” award. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “I am honored to receive the Supporter of Nature award from The Nature Conservancy. Representing the East End of Long Island, I am committed to protecting and preserving the abundance of natural resources on Long Island that are so important to the life, culture and economy of Long Island. I look forward to continuing to work with The Nature Conservancy to protect Long Island for generations to come.” “Congressman Zeldin has been a key supporter of nature by fighting for the health and conservation of New York’s lands and waters,” said Jessica Ottney Mahar, Director of Government Relations for The Nature Conservancy in New York. “We are so grateful for his support, since protecting our natural resources is so critical to our economy, our heritage and our way of life. Congressman Zeldin has advocated for the preservation of Plum Island, the restoration of Long Island Sound, and the reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund, recognizing how important these bi-partisan priorities are for future generations of Long Islanders.” Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with the Conservancy’s staff and trustees, who presented the award in person as they traveled to Capitol Hill to discuss several conservation issues currently being considered by Congress.
10.06.2015	Patchogue, NY –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, sent a letter today to Colonel David A. Caldwell at the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers outlining specific local priorities requested to be included in the final draft of the General Reevaluation Report (GRR). The GRR will determine which projects are to be included in the remainder of the Fire Island to Montauk Point Project (FIMP). “Superstorm Sandy devastated our coastal communities and businesses on Long Island,” said Congressman Zeldin. “The threat of a tropical storm this week was another reminder of how important it is to quickly move forward with these projects to ensure that we as a community are best prepared for the future. All projects listed within this letter are critical for our community and should be included in the final draft of the GRR.” A copy of the letter can be found here: Zeldin letter to U.S. Army Corps_10_6_15.pdf
10.04.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C- NY 1) today called for a vote on the permanent extension of The James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act (H.R.1786), legislation that he co-sponsors in Congress. Congressman Zeldin said, “It’s essential that The Zadroga Act is extended so that the necessary assistance is provided to our 9/11 first responders. This initiative may be funded for another year, but it must be permanently extended immediately to provide peace of mind to our 9/11 first responders and their families. After 9/11, we vowed to never forget; this is a critical way we can remember and help all of those who showed enormous amounts of courage and bravery in the aftermath of the attack on America. The Zadroga Act must be brought to the House floor immediately and I will fight in Congress to make sure it is done.” The James Zadroga Act was originally passed in 2010, and established the World Trade Center (WTC) Health Program and the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund. While both programs have adequate funding to carry through next year, the healthcare fund authorization has lapsed and should be reauthorized immediately. "This legislation would permanently extend this initiative ensuring that those first responders receive the care they earned and need for years to come," concluded Congressman Zeldin. The many advocacy groups in support of this bill include the International Association of Fire Fighters, National Association of Police Organizations, AFL-CIO, The Feal Good Foundation, Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, National Association of Police Organizations, National Sheriff’s Association, National Treasury Employees Union, National Troopers Coalition, Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association (NYPD), Detectives’ Endowment Association (NYPD), Sergeants Benevolent Association (NYPD), Lieutenants Benevolent Association (NYPD), Captains Endowment Association (NYPD), and Port Authority Police Benevolent Association. This legislation has significant bipartisan support in Congress, with over 180 co-sponsors.
10.03.2015	Hauppauge, NY– Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) today announced $999,999 in funding for The Suffolk County Fatherhood Initiative, a program run by The Retreat Inc., which is based in East Hampton. The Suffolk County Fatherhood Initiative, based in Hauppauge, seeks to provide assistance to low-income and at-risk fathers in an effort to prevent incidents of family or domestic violence, and empower these individuals to form and maintain healthy relationships, effectively parent their children, and provide them with the tools they need to support themselves and their families, both emotionally and financially. The Department of Health and Human Services' Office of Family Assistance and the generosity of private donors throughout the community fund the program. Congressman Zeldin said, “I am proud to announce that The Suffolk County Fatherhood Initiative will receive the funding they need to continue their great work in Suffolk County. Providing those in need with the tools necessary to better themselves and their families is an important initiative that is indicative of the character of our Long Island community; and I am confident that The Suffolk County Fatherhood Initiative will continue their great work for Long Island.” Karen Lombri, Program Director, said, "I am grateful for the opportunity to be able to continue this important work with fathers in Suffolk County. This funding will allow us to help fathers to be better able to care for their children both financially and emotionally and participate in violence-free healthy and mutually supportive relationships.” The funding was secured through The Administration for Children and Families, which is part of the Department of Health & Human Services, and supports the economic and social well-being of individuals and families across the nation.
09.29.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R - NY-1) just announced his endorsement of Congressman Trey Gowdy (R- SC-4) to be the next Majority Leader of the U.S. House of Representatives. "Since being sworn into Congress this past January, I have gotten to know Congressman Trey Gowdy well, and have experienced firsthand how he is an effective leader with tremendous intellect, moral character, charisma, vision and heart. The Republican Party, but more importantly, our country, would be remarkably well served with Trey as Majority Leader of the U.S. House of Representatives. Trey is a talented and incredibly bright fighter who will move our country in a better direction. If Congressman Gowdy chooses to run for leader, he has my full support."
09.28.2015	Ronkonkoma, NY— On Friday, September 25, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C—Shirley) recognized Karl Sunquist, Outgoing Commander of AmVets Post 48 in Ronkonkoma. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with Mr. Sunquist.
09.28.2015	Greenport, NY— On Saturday, September 26, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C—Shirley) attended the Maritime Festival in Greenport. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with Greg Dickerson, a Town of Southold resident.
09.28.2015	Smithtown, NY— On Saturday, September 26, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C—Shirley) marched in Smithtown’s 350th Anniversary Parade. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above marching in the parade with New York State Assemblyman Michael Fitzpatrick, Suffolk County Comptroller John Kennedy, Suffolk County Legislator Leslie Kennedy and Smithtown Councilman Tom McCarthy.
09.28.2015	Patchogue, NY— On Saturday, September 26, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C—Shirley) attended the annual St. Liberata Italian Festival on Main Street in Patchogue. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with John Rocco, who was selected as the Festival’s Italian American of the Year, and his wife, Cynthia.
09.28.2015	Sayville, NY— On Saturday, September 26, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C—Shirley) attended the 3rd Annual Airborne 5K, raising funds for VetsBuild United Way Long Island, an organization dedicated to helping post-9/11 veterans. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above speaking with a participant before the race.
09.25.2015	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY 1) today issued the following statement on this morning's announcement of the resignation of House Speaker John Boehner: “Speaker Boehner's resignation announcement was a surprise to all of us during an emotional Republican conference meeting this morning. Since he was elected Speaker of the House in 2011, John Boehner presided over the House during very challenging times for America. His resignation today, following service in Congress that spanned over two decades, was a selfless act of leadership and I am confident that with the Speaker's resignation, our conference will come out of this stronger, more united and more effective. Serving in the United States Army, I learned that a team must work together to accomplish goals. Whoever the new Speaker may be, we must work together to pursue solutions to help grow our economy and create more good paying private sector jobs, fight for our veterans who fought for us, improve our nation's education, healthcare and immigration policies, and strengthen America's foreign policy.”
09.24.2015	
09.24.2015	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley, NY 1) today issued the following statement following Pope Francis’ address to a Joint Session of Congress: “I was honored to be in the House chamber this morning to listen to Pope Francis’ address and to celebrate his historic first visit to the United States, a nation built on the foundation of religious freedom and democracy. Pope Francis discussed a number of challenges around the world and his vision for solutions. Most importantly, in recognizing America's contributions all around the globe, his presence inspired unity, compassion and motivation, to do even more in the future to make America and the rest of the world a greater place. I was proud to be joined by my gallery guest, Louisa Nadia Lopez Taitt, a 10 year old visually impaired Bellport resident who is deeply religious and in need of much prayer and healing. For Louisa, hopefully being in the presence of the Pope to give her the strength and courage to keep fighting, makes the Pope's visit all the more important. The Pope's visit to America is filled with inspiration for all of us individually, and as Americans."
09.21.2015	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) today issued a reminder for High School seniors seeking a Congressional nomination to a Military Service Academy about the upcoming deadline to submit the application to his office. All members of the United States Congress may nominate candidates for appointment to four of the five U.S. service academies: U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY; the U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD; the U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO; and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY. The fifth service academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA), New London, CT, does not require a congressional nomination for appointment. Congressman Zeldin may nominate up to ten individuals for each vacant academy slot allotted to the district. The application packet, including all of the details for the application process, can be found on Congressman Zeldin’s website at https://zeldin.house.gov/services/military-academy-nominations. High School seniors who reside in the First Congressional District and are interested in a Congressional nomination to a Service Academy must submit the application to Congressman Zeldin’s Long Island office by September 30. Additionally, all supplemental information must be submitted by October 7. After completing the application and turning in all supplemental information, applicants will be contacted to set up an appointment to come into the Long Island Office for an interview with the Congressman’s Service Academy Review Committee, a group formed by the Congressman to assist him during the nomination process. A nomination through any capacity does not guarantee acceptance into any of the academies, although it is required. All applicants for a nomination must also apply to each individual academy that they are interested in attending. For more information, students can contact Mark Woolley, District Director, at Congressman Zeldin’s office at (631) 289-1097.
09.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R-NY), Congressman Peter Roskam (R-IL), and Congressman Mike Pompeo (R-KS), released the following statement after reports indicate that Iran has begun submitting self-collected samples from its Parchin military complex to the International Atomic Energy Agency. The news is consistent with an Associated Press report that one of the two Iran-IAEA side agreements never submitted to Congress allows Tehran to conduct critical portions of what should be independent, international inspections at Parchin—a site where Iran allegedly tested detonators needed to weaponize nuclear technology in the past. "This report appears to confirm our grave concern that the Iran-IAEA side agreements permit Tehran to self-inspect its own nuclear sites. Without access to these documents it's impossible to verify that necessary mechanisms are in place to ensure Iran will abandon its pursuit of nuclear weapons. This is why, until the President complies with the law and provides the side agreements to Congress, we must keep the sanctions regime in place." Background: The Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015 explicitly requires the President to submit any “side agreements” negotiated between “Iran and any other parties” to Congress prior to a mandated review period and vote, and before any statutory sanctions are lifted. As the law states: • “Not later than 5 calendar days after reaching an agreement with Iran relating to the nuclear program of Iran, the President shall transmit to the appropriate congressional committees and leadership—(A) the agreement, as defined in subsection (h)(1), including all related materials and annexes;” • "The term ‘agreement’ means an agreement related to the nuclear program of Iran that includes the United States, commits the United States to take action, or pursuant to which the United States commits or otherwise agrees to take action, regardless of the form it takes, whether a political commitment or otherwise, and regardless of whether it is legally binding or not, including any joint comprehensive plan of action entered into or made between Iran and any other parties, and any additional materials related thereto, including annexes, appendices, codicils, side agreements, implementing materials, documents, and guidance, technical or other understands, and any related agreements, whether entered into or implemented prior to the agreement or to be entered into or implemented in the future;”
09.17.2015	Shirley, NY –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) today announced an extension of the deadline to resubmit claims though the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). NFIP policyholders of the First Congressional District of New York, who filed a claim after Super Storm Sandy and were either rejected or believe they were underpaid, can now resubmit their claim through the new October 15, 2015 deadline, which is the last day to register for the program. Originally, the deadline was set for September 15, 2015. “For many homeowners devastated by Sandy, the recovery process has been extremely difficult. This recently announced extension will provide homeowners who believe they were underpaid or who had their application rejected with added time to resubmit their claims before the new deadline on October 15, 2015. I encourage any struggling families who need assistance through the process to contact my Long Island office at (631) 289-1097.”
09.16.2015	Westhampton, NY— On Saturday, September 12, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C—Shirley), attended the 106th Rescue Wing’s 2015 Family Day at Gabreski Airport. While there, Congressman Zeldin announced that he, along with Senators Chuck Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand, secured over $2.4 million to improve the runways at Gabreski Airport. The Congressman then presented a certificate to Senior Airman Chris Reiter, on behalf of his father, Chief Master Sergeant Edward Reiter, who is retiring. Pictured above at Gabreski Airport, from left to right, are Colonel Jim Nolan, 106th Maintenance Group Commander; Senior Airman Chris Reiter from the 103rd Rescue Squadron; Congressman Zeldin; and Colonel Tom Owens, 106th Rescue Wing Commander.
09.15.2015	U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten E. Gillibrand and U.S. Congressman Lee Zeldin today announced $2,486,087 in Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) funding for Francis S. Gabreski Airport. The grant is being provided to Suffolk County for the rehabilitation of runway 15/33 at Gabreski Airport. ‎The airport is home to the 106th Rescue Wing of the Air National Guard and supports over 60,000 aircraft operations a year. The project will create about 50 construction and engineering jobs in Suffolk County over the next year. Congressman Zeldin said, “This funding will provide critically important repairs to the runways at Gabreski Airport. This federal grant is especially necessary to support the 106th Rescue Wing of the New York Air National Guard, which plays a crucial role to protect our national security and New York's emergency response capabilities. My staff and I have been working closely on this initiative with Senators Schumer and Gillibrand, and I am especially proud to see this effort moving forward so positively." “This important investment will help improve the safety at Suffolk’s Gabreski Airport,” said Senator Schumer. “I am pleased to announce this federal funding that will rehabilitate the runway at Gabreski Airport so that our pilots can take off and land safely.” “This funding will help advance runway safety operations at Gabreski Airport,” said Senator Gillibrand. “Gabreski is a vital economic anchor on Long Island that businesses and travelers rely on every day. I will continue to push for funding to help ensure the safety of passengers and crew members.” “This project is critical to ensuring the safety of the men and women of the 106th Air Rescue Wing and other users of Gabreski Airport,” Suffolk County Executive Steve Bellone said. “I am grateful to the members of our federal delegation—Senators Schumer and Gillibrand and Congressman Zeldin—for their hard work to secure these needed funds. This is an important project for an important regional asset.” Francis S. Gabreski Airport is located in the Town of Southampton and operated by Suffolk County. Gabreski Airport has 3 runways. According to Suffolk County, Gabreski Airport’s runway 15/33 is in poor condition and is a safety concern due to the intrusion of potholes and pavement debris. Daily inspections are conducted to remove the debris and fix potholes in order to keep the runway safe. This federal funding will go towards rehabilitating the runway to make sure it is in safe and usable condition. The project provides for the ongoing pavement resurfacing needs of the runway at Gabreski Airport. The project includes crack repair, concrete spall repair, joint replacement and concrete panel replacement The 106th Rescue Wing of the Air National Guard preforms combat search and rescue missions, domestically and abroad, for the Unites States and allied forces. They provide federal assistance during times of war as well as assist New York State in disaster relief, most recently in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy, and provide increased security in response to terrorist threats.
09.15.2015	Patchogue, NY– Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) today announced $55,640 in funding for the Children's Museum of the East End. The Children’s Museum of the East End (CMEE), located in Bridgehampton, NY and one of the most visited museums in Eastern Long Island, seeks to spark imagination and foster learning for children of all backgrounds and abilities and to build strong connections within the East End community. The Children's Museum of the East End will use this funding to launch the "Science Connections" program, an after school program that will be developed for children ages 5 to 9. The program will be led by bilingual museum educators and trained high school students to promote Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) programs and careers for English and Spanish speaking children and their families through an interactive, cross-cultural experience. Congressman Zeldin said, “I’m proud to announce that the Children’s Museum of the East End will receive funding they need to implement a new program for Long Island children. The new Science Connections program will provide Long Island children with an opportunity to learn more about the study of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) though a fun and unique approach. STEM is vital to the education of our youth and the future of our country in the 21st century; providing our communities with good paying jobs, which contribute to the growth of our economy, while increasing innovation, a necessary requirement for the United States to remain competitive in the global marketplace.” Steve Long, President of CMEE said “The Institute of Museum and Library Services’ process for awarding grants is incredibly competitive so CMEE is thrilled to be among the recipients. In addition to providing a unique opportunity for families of all backgrounds to learn science in a playful and exciting way, this support helps CMEE realize its vision of becoming a thriving community hub where all children are immersed in learning and discovery, develop practical and social skills for a diverse world, and have the time of their lives.” The funding was secured through the Institute of Museum and Library Services’ Museums for America and National Leadership Grants. This program supports museums across the country in an effort to maintain and further develop the services museums can provide.
09.14.2015	Nesconset, NY— On Saturday, September 12, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C—Shirley), attended the First Responders Memorial, which was organized by the Feal Good Foundation, an organization committed to bringing public awareness to the health challenges of 9/11 first responders. The Feal Good Foundation is dedicated to helping all of those 9/11 first responders who are suffering. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above speaking during the memorial. The Congressman discussed the need to permanently extend The James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, an effort that he co-sponsors in Congress, to ensure the necessary assistance is provided to our 9/11 first responders.
09.11.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R-NY 1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee, Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee and co-chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, and Congressman Peter Roskam (R-IL 6), member of the House Ways and Means Committee and co-chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, announced today the bill they co-lead in the House of Representatives to prevent the President from lifting sanctions on Iran (H.R. 3460) passed the House by a vote of 247 to 186. The legislation, H.R. 3460, would prohibit the President to waive, suspend, or otherwise limit the application of sanctions pursuant to an agreement related to the nuclear program of Iran until January 21, 2017. Earlier today, the House voted on the approval of the Iran nuclear deal, which failed in the House by a vote of 269 to 162. Congressmen Zeldin and Roskam both voted against approval of the deal. Congressman Zeldin said, “The President must not lift sanctions on Iran to implement this fatally flawed deal. The leverage that brought the Iranians to the table was the sanctions relief. Negotiating away our leverage while leaving so much out of the agreement is a historic strategic mistake. Iran is the largest state sponsor of terrorism, actively working to overthrow foreign governments, while pledging to wipe Israel off the map and chanting Death to America in their streets. So much wasn’t even part of the negotiations, including Iran’s continued efforts to develop ICBMs, blow up mock U.S. warships and unjustly imprison American citizens, including a U.S. Marine, a Pastor and a Reporter. This is a fatally flawed deal that paves the path to worsening instability and turmoil in the Middle East and is on track to trigger a nuclear arms race in the region. Furthermore, Congress has not even received the entire agreement yet from the President, specifically the critical components of the deal that would outline the verification agreements entered into between the IAEA and Iran. The President says this deal is not based on trust; it is based on verification, but we don’t even know the full details of the verification regime. It’s unfortunate that some members of Congress choose party loyalty over national security. I also want to thank Congressman Roskam for his very thoughtful and determined effort with this noble cause." Congressman Roskam said, “This dangerous nuclear agreement is what happens when the Administration capitulates to the world’s leading state-sponsor of terrorism. Under no circumstances should Congress be complicit in giving Iran a $150 billion cash infusion to further fund attacks against the United States and our allies. That’s why today the House passed this important bill to prevent President Obama from lifting statutory sanctions against Iran under this deeply flawed deal. I want to thank Congressman Zeldin for his leadership on this issue critical to U.S. national security.” A copy of the Roskam-Zeldin bill can be found here.
09.11.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R-NY 1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee, Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee and co-chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, spoke yesterday on the House floor during the Iran nuclear deal debates. The Congressman asked members who support the Iran nuclear deal a key question on the House floor; none could answer. You can watch the video here.
09.11.2015	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C- Shirley, NY-1), issued the following statement today on the 14th anniversary of September 11th, 2001: “Today, we join together as a united nation to honor and remember all those who lost their lives and loved ones during the attacks against America on September 11, 2001, a day that forever changed our country. On this day, 14 years ago, America witnessed firsthand the evils that exist in our world and vowed to never forget the horrific acts of terror that claimed the lives of thousands of innocent Americans. However, out of all of the darkness shined a bright light filled with the incredible courage and immense sacrifice of the heroes who emerged from that grave tragedy; the first responders, who without a second of hesitation, selflessly sacrificed their own personal safety in the effort to save the lives of their fellow Americans, many losing their own lives in the process. Many of those heroes who rushed to the scene of the attack are now suffering from serious health risks directly from the exposure to debris and toxins. These brave men and women deserve the care and treatment they have earned for their selfless acts in the aftermath of the September 11th, 2001 terrorist attacks. It’s essential that The James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act is permanently extended, an effort that I co-sponsor, so that the necessary assistance is provided to our 9/11 first responders. After 9/11, we vowed to never forget; this is a critical way we must remember and say thank you. Today, on this day of remembrance and honor, we also praise the brave military men and women of our Armed Forces who have also answered our nation’s call, defending our nation, freedoms and liberties; and we pay our respects to all of America’s fallen.”
09.10.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R-NY 1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee, Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee and co-chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, and Congressman Peter Roskam (R-IL 6), member of the House Ways and Means Committee and co-chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, announced today that they are co-leading a bill (H.R. 3460) in the House of Representatives to prevent the President from lifting sanctions on Iran. The legislation, H.R. 3460, which was introduced last night and will be voted on tomorrow, would prohibit the President to waive, suspend, or otherwise limit the application of sanctions pursuant to an agreement related to the nuclear program of Iran until January 21, 2017. Both Congressmen Roskman and Zeldin have been strong advocates against the Iran nuclear deal. “This is a fatally flawed deal that paves the path to worsening instability in the Middle East and a nuclear arms race in the region," said Congressman Zeldin. "The free world got steamrolled at the negotiating table. It was American exceptionalism on an apology tour. We cannot allow this President to negotiate away our leverage without any resolution on Iran’s continued efforts to overthrow foreign governments, finance terror, develop ICBMs, blow up mock U.S. warships, pledge to wipe Israel off the map, and chant Death to America in their streets while unjustly imprisoning American citizens, including a Marine, a Pastor and a Reporter. Congress still has not received the entire agreement from the President, including the critically significant verification agreements entered into between the IAEA and Iran. The President says this deal is not based on trust; it is based on verification. How can anyone support a deal based on verification without knowing the verification regime? While some members of Congress choose party loyalty over national security, the rest of us must fight tooth and nail to defend America's freedoms and liberties. We got played at the negotiating table and I, for one, wasn't sent to Congress to play along. America can and must do better." Congressman Peter Roskam said, “This dangerous nuclear agreement is what happens when the Administration capitulates to the world’s leading state-sponsor of terrorism. Under no circumstances should Congress be complicit in giving Iran a $150 billion cash infusion to further fund attacks against the United States and our allies. That’s why we’re introducing this important bill to prevent President Obama from lifting statutory sanctions against Iran under this deeply flawed deal. I want to thank Congressman Zeldin for his leadership on this issue critical to U.S. national security.” A copy of the bill can be found here: HR 3460.pdf
09.10.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R-NY 1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee, Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee and co-chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, announced today that the resolution he co-led in the House of Representatives with Congressman Mike Pompeo (R-KS 4), member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, passed the House by a vote of 245-186. The resolution expresses the sense of the House that under the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act, passed by Congress and signed by the President earlier this year, Congress must be provided with the entire agreement before the 60-day Congressional review period is triggered. To date, Congress still has not received from the President the verification agreements entered into between the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and Iran. The resolution states that the President cannot waive statutory sanctions implementing the deal until after the review period concludes, which means that Congress must be provided with the entire agreement including any side agreements. Prior to the vote, Congressman Zeldin spoke on the House floor regarding the Pompeo-Zeldin Resolution, which you can view here. A copy of the resolution can be found here.
09.09.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R-NY 1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee, Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee and co-chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, and Congressman Mike Pompeo (R-KS 4), member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, announced this evening that they are co-leading a resolution in the House of Representatives regarding the Iran Nuclear Deal. The resolution expresses that under the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act, passed by Congress and signed by the President earlier this year, Congress must be provided with the entire agreement before the 60-day Congressional review period is triggered. To date, Congress still has not received from the President the verification agreements entered into between the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and Iran. The President cannot waive statutory sanctions implementing the deal until after the review period concludes. Under the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act, passed by Congress and signed by the President this year, Congress must be provided with the entire agreement including any agreements “entered into or made between Iran and any other parties.” Section 135(6)(h)(1) Congress still hasn’t received the entire agreement as defined by Sec. 135 (6)(h)(1), which states: “AGREEMENT.—The term ‘agreement’ means an agreement related to the nuclear program of Iran that includes the United States, commits the United States to take action, or pursuant to which the United States commits or otherwise agrees to take action, regardless of the form it takes, whether a political commitment or otherwise, and regardless of whether it is legally binding or not, including any joint comprehensive plan of action entered into or made between Iran and any other parties, and any additional materials related thereto, including annexes, appendices, codicils, side agreements, implementing materials, documents, and guidance, technical or other understandings, and any related agreements, whether entered into or implemented prior to the agreement or to be entered into or implemented in the future.” “By law, the 60 day Congressional review clock has not been triggered because the entire agreement still has not been turned over to Congress for review,” stated Congressman Zeldin. “Under federal law, the President must turn over any and all side deals between the IAEA and Iran, before the review period will begin. The legal process moving forward requires the release of the entire agreement if the President wants to trigger the 60 day Congressional review that will permit him to move forward with the deal. The President has stated that this deal is not based on trust; it is based on verification. There is no way to support a deal based on verification without the details of the verification regime." "Through this terribly flawed nuclear agreement with Iran, President Obama has shown not only his blatant disregard for the security of our nation, but for the binding obligations of the law,” stated Congressman Pompeo. “Even with the very low bar set by the Corker-Cardin bill, the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act, the President still failed to live up to his requirement to provide Congress with the agreement in its entirety. I am proud to offer this resolution that will hold the president to the law that he himself signed just 75 days ago, and I hope my colleague will stand with me in supporting this important bill." A copy of the resolution can be found here.
09.08.2015	Stony Brook, NY – On Tuesday, September 1, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) toured Stony Brook University’s Center of Excellence in Wireless and Information Technology (CEWIT). Since created in 2003, CEWIT at Stony Brook has become a world leader in technological research. Pictured above, from left to right, are Ari Kaufmann, Chief Scientist, CEWIT; Congressman Lee Zeldin; Stony Brook University President Samuel L. Stanley Jr., MD; Yacov Shamash, Vice President for Economic Development for Stony Brook; and Satya Sharma, Executive Director of CEWIT.
09.08.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee M. Zeldin (R, C- Shirley, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee, Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee, and co-chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, just announced his support for the privileged resolution submitted by Congressman Peter Roskam (R-IL-6), regarding the fact that, by law, Congress is not on the 60 day review clock, because the entire Iran nuclear agreement has not yet been transmitted to Congress: “Before the Iran nuclear deal was finalized, Congress passed and the President signed into law the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act, which clearly states that Congress must be provided with the entire agreement including any agreements ‘entered into or made between Iran and any other parties.’ It is clear by law that Congress is not on the clock. The 60 day Congressional review period does not start until Congress receives the entire agreement. When Congress receives the rest of the agreement, as defined by law, the 60 day Congressional review period will begin. The President cannot waive statutory sanctions until after the 60 day period ends; a process that has not been triggered yet, because the entire agreement hasn't been submitted to Congress. It's the law. The President says that this deal is not built on trust. It is built on verification. How can anyone support a deal based on verification without knowing the details of the inspection and verification regime? The side deals between the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and Iran detail the inspection and verification regime. Even Secretary of State John Kerry recently admitted that he hasn't read these critically important side deals. Political expediency must absolutely never trump national security. Capitulating on the Iran nuclear deal without reading the side deals detailing the inspection and verification regime is grossly irresponsible, dangerous and in direct contradiction to the process agreed to between Congress and the President."
09.08.2015	Shirley, NY –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) issued the below statement today to remind National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) policyholders of the First Congressional District of New York, who filed a claim after Hurricane Sandy and were either rejected or believe they were underpaid, to resubmit their claim before the September 15, 2015 deadline, which is the last day to register for the program: “When Super Storm Sandy hit Long Island, it left our communities and shorelines damaged and vulnerable. For many homeowners devastated by Sandy, the recovery process has been extremely difficult. Any homeowners who believe they were underpaid or who had their application rejected can resubmit their claims for review before the deadline on September 15, 2015. Any struggling families can contact my office at (631) 289-1097; my constituent services team would be happy to help anyone through the process.”
09.03.2015	
09.03.2015	Middle Island, NY – On Tuesday, September 1, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) made a surprise visit to the East Coast Black Belt Academy in Middle Island to honor Jerry Vessichio of Selden, a 90 year old World War II veteran with two purple hearts and a six degree black belt, who remains active in martial arts and helps assist judo classes at the school once a week. The Congressman is pictured above with Mr. Vessichio; Jerry Figgiani and Tony Aloe, Co-Owners of East Black Belt Academy; staff; and students.
09.03.2015	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C- Shirley, NY-1) today launched a free raffle through his office to win tickets to the West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol for Pope Francis' visit. On Thursday, September 24, 2015, Pope Francis will address a joint session of Congress at the United States Capitol. Each member of Congress is allotted a limited number of tickets to distribute. Congressman Zeldin will raffle off pairs of two tickets for constituents in New York's First Congressional District. The tickets provide access to the West Lawn of the Capitol for the arrival of the Pope at 10:30 AM on September 24. There will also be a simulcast of Pope Francis’ address at the West Lawn. A view of the Pope is not guaranteed. Beginning today, First Congressional District residents can sign up online though the Congressman’s website here for a chance to win a pair of tickets for the West Lawn. The lottery will close at 5:00 PM EST on September 14, 2015. Winners will be notified by phone the following day. Ticket recipients will be selected at random. Tickets are reserved for constituents of New York's First Congressional District and are not available for resale. Travel/accommodations are at the raffle winners' expense. If there are any questions, residents can contact the Congressman’s Long Island office at (631) 289-1097.
09.02.2015	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C- NY-1) released the following statement after the announcement that Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-Maryland) will be supporting the Iran nuclear deal: “Unfortunately, there are members of Congress choosing party loyalty over national security. Quite honestly, none of them should be re-elected. This is a bad deal for America for so many critically important reasons. There absolutely is an alternative other than war. It's a better deal. It's foolish for anyone to think otherwise and to accept this capitulation to the Iranian leadership. The President says this deal isn't built on trust; it's built on verification. We can all agree that we can't trust, but no one including Secretary Kerry has read the details on the inspection and verification regime outlined in the side deals between the IAEA and Iran. How can anyone support a deal built on verification not knowing what the inspection and verification regime is? With Obamacare, Nancy Pelosi said we have to pass it to find out what is in it. With this deal, there is no guarantee we will get the entire agreement even if it was passed. Time will prove that the Iran nuclear deal should have never been signed off on in the first place. Congress is not on the clock. The law is clear that the 60 day Congressional review period does not start until Congress receives the entire agreement, which is defined by law to include the side deals. Congress has not yet received the side deals between the IAEA and Iran, which outline the inspection and verification regime. When Congress receives the rest of the agreement as defined by law, the 60 day Congressional review period begins. No vote should happen before the entire agreement is submitted to Congress.” Congressman Zeldin is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee, and Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee. Rep. Zeldin is also Co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, which currently has over 100 members.
09.01.2015	Patchogue, NY - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C- Shirley, NY-1), today reissued his call on the Obama Administration to turn over to Congress the side deals between the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and Iran, outlining the inspection and verification regime under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). Congressman Zeldin is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee, and Terrorism, Non-Proliferation and Trade Subcommittee. Rep. Zeldin also serves as Co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus. “No side deals turned over, no 60 day Congressional review triggered. No 60 day Congressional review, no waiver of sanctions,” said Congressman Zeldin. “It’s the law.” No side deals turned over, no 60 day Congressional review triggered. Before the Iran nuclear deal was finalized, Congress passed and the President signed into law the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act. Under this law, Congress must be provided with the entire agreement including any agreements “entered into or made between Iran and any other parties.” (Section 135(6)(h)(1)). Submitting the entire agreement triggers the 60 day Congressional review period. This hasn’t happened yet. No 60 day Congressional review, no waiver of sanctions. Under the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act, the President cannot waive statutory sanctions before the 60 day Congressional review period concludes. By law, the clock has not yet started. Why are the side deals important? “The President says the Iran nuclear agreement is a deal that is not built on trust; it is built on verification. So how can anyone support this deal without knowing the inspection and verification regime as outlined in the side deals between the IAEA and Iran?” asked Congressman Zeldin. Even Secretaries Kerry, Moniz and Lew admitted at a recent House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing that they had not yet read these important side deals.
08.31.2015	Yaphank, NY — Congressmen Steve Israel (D-Huntington), Peter King (R-Seaford), and Lee Zeldin (R-Shirley) announced a federal grant of $1,299,065 for the Suffolk County Fire, Rescue & Emergency Services as part of the competitive Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Program, which is administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). This funding will be used to reinstate the Suffolk Educational Program for Retention in the Volunteer Emergency Services (SERVES), which was discontinued last year due to lack of funding. The SERVES program will recruit first responders by providing each fire department with the tools to conduct advertising and public relations campaigns, concentrating on recruiting minorities and women. With this federal funding, Suffolk County plans to place an additional 1,900 recruits over the next four year. Rep. Israel said, “Our first responders put their lives on the line every day to protect our homes, businesses and schools, and save lives. This federal funding will help reinstate the important SERVES program which aims to recruit 1,900 firefighters in Suffolk County with a focus on increasing enrollment by minorities and women.” Rep. Peter King, Co-Chairman of the Congressional Fire Services Caucus, said, “I understand how critical this funding is for Suffolk County. These funds will ensure that over the next four years Suffolk County Fire, Rescue & Emergency Services can recruit 1,900 firefighters to keep us safe and protect Suffolk County." “I am proud to join with Reps. Israel and King to announce the award of SAFER grants for Suffolk County, which will provide critical funding for fire departments and emergency first responders on Long Island to keep these brave men and women safe,” said Rep. Zeldin. “We must continue to support our firefighters and EMS, who put the needs of our community before their own. It is also critically important to ensure they have access to the resources needed to recruit and retain new members.” “Suffolk County continues to be proactive in ensuring the safety and well-being of our residents, and providing our volunteer firefighters with the necessary resources in order to do their jobs effectively is one of the ways to achieve this goal,” said Suffolk County Executive Steve Bellone. “Through the SAFER program, we will be able to enhance recruitment services and continue to attract the best and brightest men and women who want to serve our communities – which will help to decrease overall response times.” This grant was awarded as part of the FY2014 SAFER grant program, which will award approximately $340 million to fire departments nationwide. Awarded directly to fire departments, the SAFER grant helps increase the number of firefighters, and recruit and retain volunteer firefighters. The grants are awarded on a competitive basis to the applicants that most closely address the program's priorities and demonstrate financial need. More information on the SAFER Grant Program can be accessed at https://www.fema.gov/.
08.27.2015	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) released a statement today detailing that the 60 day review clock for Congress does not start until the side deals of the Iranian nuclear agreement are released, including those side deals regarding the inspection and verification regime established for the agreement between the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and Iran. Additionally, pursuant to the Iranian Nuclear Agreement Review Act (Public Law 114-17), Congress was supposed to receive the side deals within 5 calendar days of reaching the agreement, which still has not taken place. Under the Iranian Nuclear Agreement Review Act, passed by Congress and signed by the President this year, Congress must be provided with the entire agreement including any agreements “entered into or made between Iran and any other parties.” Section 135(6)(h)(1) “By law, with the President's own signature, it is crystal clear that the 60 day clock is not actually triggered until the entire agreement is turned over to Congress for review,” said Congressman Zeldin. “Until the President, pursuant to federal law, turns over the side deals between the IAEA and Iran, which is defined as part of the agreement, the 60 review clock has not yet started.” Congress still hasn’t received the entire agreement as defined by Sec. 135 (6)(h)(1), which states: “AGREEMENT.—The term ‘agreement’ means an agreement related to the nuclear program of Iran that includes the United States, commits the United States to take action, or pursuant to which the United States commits or otherwise agrees to take action, regardless of the form it takes, whether a political commitment or otherwise, and regardless of whether it is legally binding or not, including any joint comprehensive plan of action entered into or made between Iran and any other parties, and any additional materials related thereto, including annexes, appendices, codicils, side agreements, implementing materials, documents, and guidance, technical or other understandings, and any related agreements, whether entered into or implemented prior to the agreement or to be entered into or implemented in the future.” “This requirement is not be satisfied by a briefing; that is not the law,” continued Congressman Zeldin. “No member of Congress should blindly endorse an inspection and verification regime of which we still haven't fully seen the details.” The Associated Press recently reported that Iran will be responsible for monitoring their own nuclear site at Parchin. “The President himself has repeated time and again that this is not a deal built on trust; it is built on verification,” concluded Congressman Zeldin. “For me personally, I already know how fatally flawed this deal is and that it must not be approved. The legal process moving forward requires the release of the entire agreement if the President wants to trigger the 60 day Congressional review that will permit him to move forward with the deal. Congress must be able to read the side deals that outline the inspection and verification regime in order to decide whether to approve of the deal. The President, Iran and the IAEA must come clean by releasing the rest of the agreement that provides these critically important details.” Congressman Zeldin is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee, and Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee. Rep. Zeldin is also Co-Chairman of the House Republican Israel Caucus, which currently has over 100 members.
08.25.2015	Mount Sinai, NY – On Monday, August 24, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) hosted his Mobile Office Hours at the Rose Caracappa Senior Citizen Center in Mount Sinai where constituents had individual meetings with the Congressman. The Congressman is pictured above with constituents at his Mobile Office Hours.
08.25.2015	Stony Brook, NY – On Monday, August 24, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) toured the Emergency Department at Stony Brook University Hospital. The Congressman is pictured above with Dr. Frederick Schiavone, Vice Dean for Medical Education and Professor of Emergency Medicine; Dr. Peter Viccellio, Clinical Professor of the Emergency Department and Vice Chair of the Department of Emergency Medicine; and Dr. Kenneth Kaushansky, Dean of the School of Medicine and Senior Vice President of Health Sciences.
08.21.2015	Patchogue, NY –On Friday, August 21, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) visited the Summer Lunch Program, which is sponsored by the U.S. Department of Agriculture and hosted by the Patchogue-Medford Library and Island Harvest. This program provides free and nutritious meals and snacks to children in need ages 18 and under. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above at the Summer Lunch Program at the Patchogue-Medford Library.
08.21.2015	Patchogue, NY –On Tuesday, August 18, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) presented the Bronze Star and World War II Victory Medal to Fredrick Charles Stone (USN) of Selden during a surprise ceremony at his Long Island Office. The Congressman also presented the Congressional Gold Medal posthumously to the family of Montford Point Marine Sgt. Philip Van Eyken of Stony Brook. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with Fredrick Charles Stone and his daughter, Cynthia Garippa; and the family of Sgt. Philip Van Eyken, including his daughter, Sandra Anderson, and his grandson, Marine Lt. Steven Anderson.
08.20.2015	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) released the following statement today following the release of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Long Island Sound Dredged Material Management Plan and the decision to extend the comment period and add an additional hearing. “On August 10, 2015, I called upon the Army Corps to extend the comment period to 120 days and to schedule additional public hearings. The 30 day comment period and holding only one public hearing a week after the plan is released is totally unacceptable. It is absolutely essential that the public have sufficient time to review the draft plan and to comment. I'm grateful for those local elected officials and community leaders who have joined me in this cause. The announcement that the Army Corps has extended the comment period from 30 days to 60 days with an additional hearing is an improvement, but holding the hearings just one week after the release of the plan is unacceptable. Though no final decisions have been made and this is just an initial outline, the Army Corps and EPA must remember that the law is crystal clear: EPA testing must be performed on all dredge waste to ensure that the material will not harm the environment into which it is placed. Long Island can not be a dumping ground for any questionable waste dredged out of Connecticut rivers. I support phasing out all open water disposal of dredge waste in the Long Island Sound. This report opens the door to phasing out the practice, but should do more to speed up this process. Dredging is essential to the citizens of Long Island who rely upon waterways for transportation, recreation, and economic activity. That is why in May I voted for H.R. 2028, the Energy and Water Appropriations Act, which increased the Harbor Maintenance Trust fund by $36 million and included critical reforms to ensure Long Island’s ports and harbors get our equitable share of money.” A copy of the letter Congressman Zeldin sent to Meghan Quinn at the Programs & Projects Management Division of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers on August 10, 2015 can be found here: 8_10_15 Zeldin Letter to U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.pdf The new deadline for public comment is October 16, 2015. The two public hearings will be held in New York on Monday, Aug. 24, 2015 in the Village Center at Port Jefferson at 101-A East Broadway in Port Jefferson, N.Y.; and on Tuesday, Aug. 25, 2015 at the Marriott Long Island at 101 James Doolittle Blvd. in Uniondale, N.Y.
08.19.2015	Southampton, NY –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) was joined today by local elected officials and members of the community at the Crohan Community Center in Southampton to announce an initiative he has launched to create new zip codes on the East End of Long Island in the hamlets of Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton, in the Town of Southampton, which each currently share the same zip code, 11901, with the nearby Town of Riverhead, causing a number of issues in the local community. According to research initiated by the concerned residents of these hamlets, there are currently 18 identical street names and 32 similar street names - and possibly more - that are shared between these Southampton hamlets and Riverhead Town. This causes a number of issues in the local community and makes things very confusing for postal carriers, which leads to mail and packages being delivered to the wrong address, and sometimes even being routed as far away as Flanders, New Jersey. Furthermore, sometimes these packages aren’t able to be delivered, with packages frequently being marked as “return to sender” or “address unknown.” Congressman Zeldin signed and sent a letter to the Postmaster today officially requesting that the hamlets of Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton, each be assigned with their own new, unique zip codes, possibly 11902, 11903, and 11904, respectively, in order to make them distinguishable from each other and from Riverhead Town. After the letter is submitted, the Postmaster should give an answer within 60 days. “This is a serious concern for residents on the East End of Long Island. I have been very well aware of this issue since several years before entering Congress and I am honored to lead the effort for the community to hopefully achieve a positive solution,” said Congressman Zeldin. “The delay of deliveries caused by this issue is not just a nuisance to the local community, but can also greatly impact quality of life. These packages can hold important goods like medications, which are critical for a person's health and well-being. They can also cause major problems for police, first responders, and other emergency personnel, who may arrive at the wrong address due to these shared street names with the same zip code. These kinds of mistakes can be avoided and all of these problems can simply be alleviated by assigning new and unique zip codes to Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton.” Congressman Zeldin received many requests from residents, community organizations, and elected officials. Senator Ken LaValle said “Individuality is very important for communities. Unique Zip Codes for Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton will provide them with the distinction that they deserve. In addition, providing specific zip codes would also eliminate the misdirection of mail, speed delivery and result in more reliable delivery. I fully support efforts to provide these areas with individual Zip Codes.” Assemblyman Fred Thiele stated, "Through intergovernmental cooperation, we are making great strides to revitalize the hamlets of Flanders, Northampton, and Riverside. On the state level alone, we have accomplished the repaving of Route 24, special legislation to expedite the Riverside Traffic Circle reconstruction, the approval of long requested traffic lights, the authorization of PILOT payments to reduce tax impacts, and state grants for local economic development projects. The efforts of Congressman Zeldin to obtain zip codes for these hamlets is another critical step to establish the community identity that is necessary to build a prosperous future. I applaud Congressman Zeldin's initiative." “For close to 20 years, the Flanders, Riverside and Northampton communities have requested an independent zip code not only to enhance their sense of identity but to ensure the safe and timely arrival of important mail and packages,” said Councilwoman Christine Scalera, “as the Town of Southampton is actively engaged in revitalizing this area, a zip code also provides the benefit of enhancing the sense of community as a hamlet within the Town.” Councilman Brad Bender said, “Providing unique zip codes to the Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton areas is a great idea – one that would go a long way to improving mail delivery service, as well as instilling a sense of pride of place for the residents and businesses in those hamlets.” “Receiving calls from lost guests or delivery men are an inconvenience experienced by many residents of the area, but having lifesaving medicine delivered to the right address in the wrong town is a far more serious matter. I am grateful that Congressman Zeldin has recognized the danger to community members that this long unresolved zip code matter causes” said Flanders, Riverside and Northampton Community Association President Vince Taldone. “Community members have been fighting for years to get this issue resolved and I am grateful that Congressman Zeldin has taken up the battle on our behalf.” Ronald Fisher, Secretary of the Flanders, Riverside, and Northampton Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC), said, “Congressman Zeldin has impressed me in the way he has addressed our communities' need for new zip codes. The Flanders, Riverside and Northampton CAC first brought this issue to his attention in May, and within a week he had contacted the head of the U.S. Post Office and provided me with the official federal process for obtaining zip codes for our hamlets. We at the CAC collected nearly 20 letters of support from heads of civic groups, elected officials, volunteer fire and ambulance departments, residents and businesses to get the ball rolling. The community spoke loudly and clearly, and Mr. Zeldin listened. I am excited that Congressman Zeldin has taken up our cause with such speed and vigilance."
08.17.2015	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee and Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee, returned from a week long visit to Israel with House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy as the senior member traveling with a delegation of Congressional colleagues who traveled to the Middle East to pursue solutions for foreign policy, national security and economic issues affecting both the United States and Israel. Upon his arrival back in the United States, Congressman Zeldin said, “It's timely and important to observe firsthand the current situation on the ground in the Middle East and help strengthen the bond between America and Israel. During my visit, I met with several top Israeli elected officials and military leaders to discuss a number of topics including the Iran nuclear deal, missile defense, cybersecurity, innovation and technology, intelligence sharing and much more." Since taking office in January, Congressman Zeldin, who co-chairs the House Republican Israel Caucus, has been an outspoken advocate on the need to strengthen the relationships between America and our allies. The Congressman has also been a vocal advocate against America agreeing to a bad nuclear deal with Iran that threatens the stability of America and the Middle East. While in Jerusalem, Congressman Zeldin met with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to discuss the fatally flawed Iran deal. He also met with the Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Rami Hamdallah during a visit across the Green Line into Ramallah to discuss Hamas and the viability of a two state solution. Congressman Zeldin met with Israeli President Reuven Rivlin in Jerusalem earlier in the week and the Iran nuclear deal dominated the President's remarks as it also did during a meeting with Opposition Leader Isaac Herzog. While in Israel, Congressman Zeldin toured many sites including the Gaza border, the Golan Heights border with Syria, the Jordanian River Valley between Israel and Jordan, an Iron Dome Battery, and several West Bank locations. He also visited a number of historic sites such as the historic Western Wall at the Temple Mount, the Church of the Holy Sepulchre and Yad Vashem, which is a remembrance to those who lost their lives in the Holocaust. You can view pictures and videos from his Israel visit here. “Israel has always been a strategic partner of the United States in the Middle East. It is amazing that we have such a strong Democratic ally in a volatile part of the world that is filled with instability and turmoil. Israel is surrounded by terrorist groups like Hamas, Hezbollah, Al Qaeda and ISIS, but Israel's strength and our unbreakable alliance gives them the strongest possible determination to survive. We share the same enemies. In Congress, I will continue to pursue a stronger foreign policy to protect the United States and our allies from emerging threats throughout the Middle East and around the world,” Congressman Zeldin concluded.
08.13.2015	Israel – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee and Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee, departed on a weeklong visit to Israel on Saturday, August 8, 2015, with House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy as the senior member traveling with a delegation of Congressional colleagues. Yesterday, Congressman Zeldin, who co-chairs the House Republican Israel Caucus, met with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu while in Jerusalem and Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Rami Hamdallah during a visit across the Green Line into Ramallah to discuss foreign affairs in the Middle East. Earlier this week, Congressman Zeldin met with Israeli President Reuven Rivlin in Jerusalem. “Israel has always been a strategic partner of the United States in the Middle East. This timely visit to Israel will serve to help strengthen the critically important alliance between our two great nations,” said Congressman Zeldin. “This visit to Israel comes at a very critical moment, especially with the President’s recent announcement of a deeply flawed nuclear deal with Iran. Yesterday, while meeting with the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, we discussed the many troublesome components of the deal. While meeting with Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Rami Hamdallah, I questioned him on the Hamas influence on the Palestinian Authority, and expressed the need to stand up to this terrorist group if a two state solution is ever to be viable.” Since taking office in January, Congressman Zeldin has been an outspoken advocate on the need to strengthen the alliance between the United States and Israel, and has been a vocal advocate against America agreeing to a bad nuclear deal with Iran. The visit was arranged to pursue solutions for foreign policy, national security and economic issues affecting both the United States and Israel. During the visit, Congressman Zeldin has also been to the Gaza border, the Golan Heights border with Syria, an Iron Dome Battery, and an Israeli West Bank Settlement, as well as historical sites such as the historic Western Wall at the Temple Mount, the Church of the Holy Sepulchre and Yad Vashem, which is a remembrance to those who lost their lives in the Holocaust. You can view videos of Congressman Zeldin recorded from the Gaza Strip here and Temple Mount here.
08.07.2015	Patchogue, NY –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C - NY-1) released the following statement today praising New York Democratic Senator Chuck Schumer and New York Democratic Representatives Eliot Engel, Steve Israel and Nita Lowey for their leadership against the Iran nuclear deal. “I am very grateful to Senator Schumer and Congressmen Engel, Israel and Lowey who are putting our national security ahead of party loyalty,” said Congressman Zeldin. “I encourage all members of Congress from New York to stand together against this historically bad deal; together we can stop this fatally flawed agreement.” Congressman Zeldin has been a vocal advocate against America agreeing to a bad nuclear deal with Iran consistently stating that this deal, as is, will pave the path to worsening instability in the Middle East and trigger a nuclear arms race in the region, putting our global security in danger and providing the sanctions relief to Iran which brought the Iranians to the table in the first place. “This deal is flawed for so many reasons, including the disagreement between the Obama administration and Iranian leadership on how to interpret key components,” Congressman Zeldin continued. “First and foremost, the President has said that this deal will have 24/7 where necessary, when necessary inspections, but this is not true. Americans are not even permitted to be on inspection teams. Even more concerning is the secret side deals between Iran and the IAEA, which we do not know the details of." Rep. Zeldin has been encouraging all members of the NY delegation to stand together in advocating for a better deal, which has absolutely been obtainable this entire time. Just last week, he issued a statement praising New York Democratic Congresswomen Grace Meng and Kathleen Rice for their leadership against the Iran nuclear deal. You can read it here.
08.07.2015	Brookhaven, NY – On Wednesday, August 6, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1), spoke at the Brookhaven National Laboratory Office of Educational Programs 2015 Summer Internship Closing Ceremony. The internship program at Brookhaven National Lab is the largest U.S. Department of Energy Summer Internship Program in the nation with over 200 students from across the country participating. Congressman Zeldin discussed the importance of the study of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM), and explained how STEM is vital to the education of our youth and the future of our country in the 21st century; providing our communities with good paying jobs, which contribute to the growth of our economy, while increasing innovation, a necessary requirement for the United States to maintain a strong economy and remain competitive in the global marketplace. The Congressman expressed that he places a high priority on ensuring that the United States remains a leader in scientific discovery, and that he will continue to support responsible funding for scientific exploration.
08.07.2015	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee and Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee, will depart tomorrow for a one week visit to Israel with House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy as the senior member traveling with a delegation of over 35 members of Congress. Congressman Zeldin co-chairs the House Republican Israel Caucus. The trip, hosted by the American Israel Education Foundation (AIEF), was arranged to pursue solutions for foreign policy, national security and economic issues affecting both the United States and Israel. The delegation will meet with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and President Reuven Rivlin during the trip. “Joining with my colleagues in Congress on a trip to Israel will help strengthen the alliance between our two nations,” said Congressman Zeldin. “I look forward to meeting with the Israeli Prime Minister and President to continue a relationship between our two nations that understands that a threat to Israel is viewed as a threat to America.” Congressman Zeldin has been an outspoken advocate for strengthening the alliance between the United States and Israel. “Israel has always been a strategic partner of the United States in the Middle East, a region that is filled with instability and turmoil,” Congressman Zeldin continued. “With the President’s recent announcement of a deal with Iran, this trip to Israel comes at a very critical time.” Since taking office in January, Congressman Zeldin has advocated against America agreeing to a bad nuclear deal with Iran; a deal that will pave the path to worsening instability in the Middle East and trigger a nuclear arms race in the region, putting the United States, Israel and all nations across the globe in danger.
08.06.2015	Patchogue, NY – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1), member of the House Veterans’ Affairs committee, announced today that the Hire More Heroes Act, which the Congressman strongly supported and cosponsored in the House of Representatives, was signed into law by President Obama. The Hire More Heroes Act, which passed the House unanimously on January 6, 2015, allows employers to exclude veterans who already receive health insurance through the Department of Defense or the Department of Veterans Affairs from the employer mandate, a key provision of Obamacare, which requires all businesses with more than 50 employees to provide health insurance to any full time worker. Under law, veterans who already receive health insurance through the Department of Defense or the Department of Veterans Affairs were still counted towards the employer mandate. The Hire More Heroes Act will now allow those veterans to be excluded from this count. This new law incentivizes businesses to hire more veterans, while providing our small businesses with much-needed relief from Obamacare. “My first day in Congress, I voted for the Hire More Heroes Act, which will help our Long Island veterans obtain jobs and financial security, encouraging small businesses to hire veterans, while providing local employers with relief from burdensome requirements under Obamacare,” said Congressman Zeldin. “I was proud to cosponsor and support this legislation and announce that this critical piece of legislation for our veterans has now become law. Fighting for our veterans who fought for us has always been one of my top priorities, and I will continue to support any measures that will further protect our veterans.” President of Citizens for Veterans in Government, Steve Raiser said, “The Hire More Heroes Act is yet another reason why businesses will benefit greatly by hiring more veterans. We are grateful to Congressman Zeldin for seeing this legislation through and standing up for our veterans.” Executive Director of Long Island State Veterans Home, Fred Sganga said, “It’s great to see Congressman Zeldin’s common sense approach to an issue that will greatly assist veterans and their families as well as small businesses. Lee’s commitment to our military veterans is a priority and he is clearly committed to things getting done in Washington D.C. on behalf of America’s heroes. Thank you Congressman Zeldin for your outstanding efforts for veterans in Suffolk County and the rest of our great nation.”The Home Care Association of York State (HCA) “applauds Congressman Zeldin for working to champion important legislation that encourages simultaneous health coverage and small business employment opportunities for veterans. HCA is currently involved in a state process seeking to address ‘social determinants of health,’ of which employment is key factor correlating to health. The Congressman’s legislation is cutting-edge in its combined support of both employment and health, and in it’s great benefit to our veterans.” "My son had trouble finding work when he returned from Iraq, the Hire More Heroes Act will certainly help!,” said Dennis O'Donnell, Proud Father to Sgt. Sean O'Donnell US Army NG.
08.03.2015	Patchogue, NY –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C - NY-1) released the following statement today praising New York Democratic Congresswomen Grace Meng and Kathleen Rice for their leadership against the Iran nuclear deal. Rep. Zeldin is encouraging all members of the NY delegation to stand together against the Iran deal: “Just a few days ago, Democratic Congresswoman Grace Meng of New York demonstrated exceptional leadership coming out in opposition to the recently announced Iran Deal. Today, Congresswoman Kathleen Rice of New York, a Democratic member of the Long Island delegation, announced her opposition as well. It is not easy for members of Congress to oppose a top legacy priority of the President of the United States when the President is of the same political party. I admire that with their opposition, Congresswomen Meng and Rice are putting the interest of our nation’s security ahead of party loyalty. Over the coming weeks, I encourage all members of the New York delegation, regardless of their party affiliation, to stand together against a deeply flawed deal with Iran. The President stated that the only alternative to whatever deal he entered into is war. I reject that. We should all reject that. This deal is flawed for so many reasons. The President says that with the agreement, there will be 24/7 where necessary, when necessary inspections. This is simply untrue. Americans are not permitted to be on the inspection teams and we do not even know the details of the secret side deals between Iran and the IAEA. There are so many more deeply problematic components of this deal aside from the lack of necessary verification, including disagreement between the Obama administration and Iranian leadership on how to interpret key components. The leverage that brought the Iranians to the table was the sanctions relief. Now we just negotiated away that leverage without any discussion and resolution on Iran’s continued efforts to overthrow foreign governments, sponsor terror, develop ICBMs, blow up mock U.S. warships, pledge to wipe Israel off the map, and chant Death to America in their streets while unjustly imprisoning American citizens, including a Marine, a Pastor and a Reporter. The irony of this deal is that the President is actually paving the path to worsening instability in the Middle East and a nuclear arms race in the region. As Representative Rice eloquently and simply stated, 'for the sake of Peace, we can do better.' She is right. We must do better. Together, as a unified force, we can stop this historically bad deal.”
07.29.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C- NY 1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, the Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs and the Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity, voted for The VA Accountability Act of 2015 (H.R. 1994), legislation that he cosponsors, which passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 256 to 170. The VA Accountability Act makes commonsense reforms to the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The legislation would provide the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs with the authority to remove a VA employee based on misconduct. Among other aspects of the bill, the legislation also establishes an 18 month probationary period for new employees and further protects whistleblowers, ensuring those who come forward about wrongdoings will be protected. Congressman Zeldin said, “One of my top priorities in Congress is fighting for our veterans who fought for us, which is why I was proud to cosponsor and support the VA Accountability Act. I believe that 99% of VA employees genuinely care about the work they do and want to help veterans. This bill would ensure that the other 1% of those who are not acting in the best interest of veterans are held accountable.” It was just recently reported that only 3 employees involved in the Phoenix VA scandal, which could have led to the deaths of up to 40 veterans, were held accountable for their role in the manipulation of wait times and secret wait lists. At the Denver VA hospital construction site, the project is now several hundred million dollars over budget, and no employees have been held accountable. “This legislation makes important reforms to the VA system, which will provide the necessary resources and flexibility the VA system administration needs to hold poor performing employees accountable,” continued Congressman Zeldin. “Reforming our VA system is essential to protecting our veterans, and improving their quality of life and care." Congressman Zeldin recently wrote an op-ed expressing his full support of this bill. You can read it here.
07.28.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C- NY 1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, questioned today Secretary of State John Kerry during a committee hearing titled, “Iran Nuclear Agreement: The Administration’s Case.” Testifying at the hearing about the Iran deal were Secretary of State John Kerry, Secretary of Treasury Jacob Lew, and Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz. You can watch Rep. Zeldin's statement/questioning here.
07.28.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C - NY-1), Member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, and two Veterans Affairs Subcommittees: the Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs, and the Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity, announced today that his bill, the Veterans Estate Transfer to Survivors Act, or the VETS Act (H.R. 1569), which was amended into the Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2015 (H.R. 675), passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 409 to 0. The VETS Act would require the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to pay certain benefits that were earned by a veteran to the veteran's estate. Under current law, if a veteran passes away while the VA is still reviewing a claim, the VA no longer has to award the earned benefits. Currently, only a veteran's spouse, minor child, or dependent parent(s) are eligible to collect the accrued benefits. By adding the estate to the current list of beneficiaries, adult children could now also receive the benefits earned, should there be no other qualifying family members. “The VETS Act is a commonsense reform to VA benefit payouts that will help veterans and their families on Long Island and across the country, ensuring our veteran families, who rightfully earned and deserve their benefits, actually receive their benefits, even after the veteran passes away,” said Congressman Zeldin. “I am happy to see the bill pass the House with such overwhelming bipartisan support, knowing that veterans and their families will benefit from the protections this bill will provide our service members." Last night, following the passage of his bill, Congressman Zeldin spoke on the House floor. You can watch the video here. The VETS Act bill text can be found here.
07.27.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R-NY), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, announced that he introduced a bipartisan bill, the Safe Bridges Act (H.R. 3168), with Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY). According to the New York State Department of Transportation, more than one-third of New York State’s 17,000 bridges are in need of repair. 2,016 of these bridges have been graded as “structurally deficient”, meaning they require significant maintenance to remain in service and will eventually require total rehabilitation. 4,735 have been graded as “functionally obsolete”, meaning they cannot handle current traffic demand. On Long Island, there are a total of 688 bridges. Of these bridges, 18 have been declared structurally deficient bridges and 426 have been listed as functionally obsolete bridges. Due to changes made in a 2012 law, MAP-21, overpasses owned by the state or the county had been cut off from critical federal funding which is needed to maintain and repair them. The Safe Bridges Act would provide counties and municipalities the funds they desperately need to fix our nation’s bridges and infrastructure by reforming federal highway law to make our critical overpasses and bridges once again eligible for needed funding. “Our roads, overpasses, and bridges are essential to the Long Island economy and our community’s safety,” said Congressman Lee Zeldin. “Unfortunately, much of our region's infrastructure is in need of additional support. As a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I am proud to introduce this bipartisan bill that will reform federal highway law to make our critical overpasses and bridges once again eligible for needed federal funding. Providing states and local governments more flexibility and the resources necessary to strengthen our infrastructure will improve transportation safety, job creation, and our overall economy.” You can read the bill text here.
07.27.2015	Washington, DC – On July 23, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C-NY-1) met with Mei Bai, a Nuclear Physicist from Brookhaven National Lab, who recently received The Ernest Orlando Lawrence Award; an award which was established in 1959 in honor of a scientist who helped elevate American physics to the status of world leader in the field. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above presenting a Congressional Record tribute to Mei Bai in recognition of receiving The Ernest Orlando Lawrence Award.
07.24.2015	Kings Park, NY – Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R,C -NY 1) released the following statement congratulating Kings Park native Craig Biggio on his induction into the National Baseball Hall of Fame after a 20-year Major League Baseball career with the Houston Astros. “Congratulations to Kings Park High School alum, Craig Biggio, on his induction this weekend into the National Baseball Hall of Fame. We are so proud to have a Long Island native and former resident of the First Congressional District of New York as a newly minted Hall of Famer. Baseball, one of the most popular pastimes in America, is part of the life and culture of our nation. It is a privilege to congratulate Craig Biggio on his accomplishments and wish him the best in his future endeavors. My mother is also a graduate of Kings Park High School and my family knows just how proud the entire Kings Park community is for the Biggio family.” Craig Biggio will be inducted into the National Baseball Hall of Fame this weekend
07.24.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) released the following statement in response to President Obama's assertion that the Iran nuclear deal provides for 24/7 where necessary, when necessary inspections: “When President Obama announced the Iran nuclear deal, he stated that inspectors will have 24/7 where necessary, when necessary access to Iran’s key nuclear facilities. Putting aside that Americans aren't even permitted to participate on the inspection teams at all, it is simply 100% untrue that the IAEA inspectors will have 24/7 where necessary, when necessary access. It is further informative to read the very convoluted, prolonged and multi faceted process of overcoming access denials outlined in the text of the deal. As just one example, if the 3 member Advisory Board is convened, each party gets to appoint one member, but there is absolutely no guidance whatsoever on how the third person will be selected other than that the person must be "independent". While the administration is doing their best to sell 8 percent of the agreement to the public, it is so critically important that we do not ignore the other 92 percent of the story. The American public through their elected representatives in government must insist on sending our negotiators back to the table with a stronger hand."
07.23.2015	U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand, and Representatives Steve Israel (NY-3), Lee Zeldin (NY-1), Gregory Meeks (NY-5), Kathleen Rice (NY-4) and Peter King (NY-2) today announced that the Long Island Power Authority (LIPA) will receive $21,188,947.15 in federal funding for emergency work and additional protective work done as a result of Superstorm Sandy. The award will be made in two separate grants. The first grant provides $19,906,417.70 for emergency repairs to LIPA’s statewide utility distribution system for work performed before October 30, 2012 and after, November 14, 2012. The second grant includes emergency protective work to prevent further damage to its statewide substations that was damaged as a direct result of Superstorm Sandy. “This massive federal investment will help ensure Long Island is built back better and stronger after Sandy, and both lightens the load for Long Island taxpayers and keeps the lights on,” said Senator Schumer. “This federal Sandy-relief funding will be given to LIPA to help repair damaged infrastructure and move forward with mitigation efforts to protect from future damage.” “This critical FEMA funding will help provide much needed resources to facilitate repairs to the energy infrastructure that Long Islanders rely on for their electricity,” said Senator Gillibrand. “Superstorm Sandy devastated our communities and these funds will help rebuild our infrastructure even stronger and more resilient so we can be prepared when the next storm hits.” "Repairing and strengthening LIPA's infrastructure is critical to Long Islanders and our regional economy,” said Representative Israel. “We need to be better protected in the event of future severe storms. This federal investment in LIPA helped make emergency repairs after Superstorm Sandy, and will make sure we continue to rebuild stronger and safer energy infrastructure Long Islanders can count on.” “These grants are key to providing the necessary funding to restore and protect our energy infrastructure, ensuring that we as a community are prepared for the future,” said Representative Zeldin. “I am proud to have worked with my colleagues in Congress in a bipartisan effort to secure the resources necessary to protect key critical energy infrastructure on Long Island.” “Restoring our communities after the destruction of Super Strom Sandy has been, and remains my highest priority,” said Representative Meeks. “These much needed resources will help LIPA repair damage caused by Sandy and improve our resiliency in order to prevent future power outages like the ones we experienced during Super Storm Sandy.” “Superstorm Sandy left hundreds of thousands of Long Islanders without power and showed us that our energy infrastructure is severely vulnerable to extreme weather,” said Representative Rice. “This funding will support urgently needed repairs and ensure that our critical infrastructure is more resilient and better prepared to withstand future storms.” “These funds are another important step in Long Island’s Superstorm Sandy recovery and will be critical to bolster our resiliency against future storms,” said Representative King. The funding, provided under authority of Section 403 of the Robert T. Stafford Act, covers expenses incurred for labor, equipment, materials, administrative costs, contract performed services, and other costs necessary for undertaking the project.
07.21.2015	Coram – On Monday, July 20, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) read a children’s story to students attending the Children’s Defense Fund Freedom School Summer Program at Faith Baptist Church in Coram. The summer program provides school aged children K-12 with an opportunity to continue learning while on summer vacation from school. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with students in the program, after reading them a children’s book.
07.19.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) joined today with local elected officials, community groups and concerned residents to announce a bipartisan initiative in Congress to combat drug abuse across the country and on Long Island: The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2015 (H.R. 953) and the Stop Overdose Stat (SOS) Act (H.R. 2850), both cosponsored by the Congressman. Congressman Zeldin hosted the press conference after the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) released a report last week highlighting the growing drug abuse epidemic across America, specifically heroin abuse, which is skyrocketing across all demographics on Long Island. The CDC reports that heroin use among younger generations is soaring. The CDC found that over the past decade, heroin use has doubled among young adults ages 18–25 and heroin-related overdose deaths have nearly quadrupled. On Long Island alone, there were 42 heroin and other drug overdoses in the past 15 months, and 341 drug related deaths overall in 2014. The Congressman was joined by Suffolk County Legislators Robert Trotta and Leslie Kennedy; Kim Revere, President of Kings Park in the kNOw; Dr. Andrew Kolodny, Chief Medical Officer for Phoenix House and Director of Physicians for Responsible Opioid Prescribing; Steve Chassman, Executive Director of the Long Island Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence; Linda Ventura and Teri Kroll, both members of Families in Support of Treatment (F.I.S.T), and The Prevention Resource Center of Suffolk County. “Our communities and families on Long Island have been severely impacted by the rise of prescription drug abuse and the growing epidemic of heroin,” said Congressman Zeldin. “The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, which I am proud to support and cosponsor, is bipartisan legislation aimed at increasing treatment and recovery services, and providing the proper education and resources at a local level on Long Island and across New York State to help combat this growing epidemic.” The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2015 (H.R. 953) is a bill that will help provide Long Island residents suffering from drug abuse with the services they need to guide them on the road to recovery. The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act will provide up to $80 million in funding to help prevent and treat addiction through community-based education and preventative programs, and treatment and recovery programs. The grants made available through this bill will also provide the funding necessary to expand prescription drug monitoring programs in states. Additionally, the funding will provide our police force and emergency medical responders with higher supplies of Naloxone, a prescription drug proven to reverse an opioid overdose. This legislation was introduced by Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) and currently has 20 cosponsors, including 8 Republicans and 12 Democrats. The Stop Overdose Stat (SOS) Act (H.R. 2850) provides an additional $25 million over a 5 year period for Naloxone production and distribution, to help increase the supply, and provide more medical professionals and families with this life saving drug. The Stop Overdose Stat (SOS) Act will also establish a preventative research task force, which will be established to research ways to prevent future overdose deaths, taking a preventative approach against drug abuse. “Together, as a community, we must reverse the growing drug crisis we’ve seen on Long Island and across the country. I urge all of my colleagues to join me in passing The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2015 and the Stop Overdose Stat Act to provide our local communities with the resources necessary to help stop and prevent drug abuse,” Congressman Zeldin concluded. Suffolk County Legislator Robert Trotta said, “Having been assigned to the FBI violent crime task force for 10 years, and a Suffolk narcotics detective for 15 years, I fully understand that the drug problem in this country needs to be addressed from all angles and the Congressman's legislation does just that.” "To bring the prescription opioid and heroin crisis under control we need to prevent new cases of opioid addiction and we need to see that people suffering from this disease are able to access effective treatment. H.R. 953 helps us do both because it expands prevention and treatment efforts in hard hit communities like Suffolk County. This bill, if passed, will help save lives" said Dr. Andrew Kolodny, Chief Medical Officer of Phoenix House and Director of Physicians for Responsible Opioid Prescribing. Kim Revere, President of Kings Park in the kNOw, said, “As a member of a community coalition I know how important grass roots efforts pertain to fighting this epidemic. This bill will provide funds for groups like mine to help get information out to our community and communities all over this country. The system can be very difficult to navigate and coalitions like ours communicate with people on a local level and help point them in the right direction. We also provide educational information to our youth. This epidemic is huge and it is a relief to finally see assistance coming from a federal level.” The Congressman, who remains deeply committed to the drug addiction crisis on Long Island, will be hosting a Heroin Summit in October. More details are to follow.
07.15.2015	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-01), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, and the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, responded to a question just asked by President Obama at a White House Press Conference, "What's your alternative?", to critics of the Iran nuclear deal. The President claimed that the only alternative to this new deal is war. In response, Congressman Zeldin released the following statement: “Here's an alternative other than war: A better deal. Here are 10 suggestions of what a better deal looks like: -One that doesn't make a slew of permanent concessions on our side in exchange for temporary concessions on the part of the Iranians; -Doesn't lift the ban on arms sales to Iran; -Doesn't reduce in 10 years Iran's breakout time to 0 days to have a nuclear bomb; -Frees U.S. citizens being unjustly imprisoned by Iran; -Penalizes Iran financially for any activity to overthrow foreign governments and sponsor terror. Keep money in escrow as an insurance policy to ensure compliance; -Doesn't trigger a nuclear arms race in the Middle East; -If Iran won't agree to eliminate their stock piles of uranium and centrifuges than it must at the very least be reduced to no more than what is absolutely necessary for peaceful use; -Stops Iran's development of Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles (ICBMs); -Actually gives 24/7 anytime, anywhere inspections of Iran's nuclear sites. The current agreement has a convoluted process that absolutely does not, contrary to what President Obama alleges, provide for 24/7 anytime, anywhere inspections; -Iranian leadership agrees to stop blowing up mock U.S. warships in military exercises, pledging to wipe Israel off the map, and preaching "Death to America". The irony of the President's capitulation is that this bad deal will pave the path to more instability in the Middle East, not less. The Iranians are at the table desperate for sanctions relief. They are not there as freedom loving good citizens of the world. The Iranians are not at the table, because they fear the military option. The leverage is sanctions relief. That brought the Iranians to the table, which is proof the sanctions were working. So with a strong hand, negotiate a better deal. The American public must reject this deal. The Obama administration must be forced to reverse course. America's hand at the negotiating table must be strengthened. Where is the leverage moving forward to tackle all of the many threatening actions of Iran if we agree to eliminate the sanctions? Asking nicely is not leverage There is an alternative to a bad deal. For the security of America and the stability of the Middle East, we must pursue a better direction immediately."
07.14.2015	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-01), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, and the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, spoke of his concerns with the Iran nuclear deal with witnesses: former U.S. Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, Gen. Michael V. Hayden (USAF, Retired), Hon. R. Nicholas Burns, and Ray Takeyh, Ph.D, during a Foreign Affairs hearing titled “Implications of a Nuclear Agreement with Iran”. You can watch the video here.
07.14.2015	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-01) released a video statement after today's announcement that a deal has been reached between the United States and Iran. Congressman Zeldin, Co-Chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, as well as the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, and the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. You can watch the video here. You can read the text of the statement here.
07.14.2015	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-01) released the following statement following today's announcement that a deal has been reached between the United States and Iran. Congressman Zeldin, Co-Chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, as well as the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, and the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. “Today, with the announcement of a bad deal with Iran, the President has taken a road that was less travelled for good reason. The road was less travelled, because so much wasn’t even part of the negotiations. Iran’s efforts to overthrow foreign governments, sponsor terror, develop ICBMs, blow up mock U.S. warships, pledge to wipe Israel off the map, and chant Death to America in their streets while unjustly imprisoning American citizens, including a U.S. Marine. The road was less travelled, because the President just negotiated away our sanctions that made for critical leverage to deal with so many other completely unacceptable acts that must not be tolerated. The road was less travelled, because the United States will be making permanent concessions in exchange for temporary concessions on the part of the Iranians. The road was less travelled, because there is so much doubt as to whether this was even a deal. Will the Iranian’s publicly agree to the English version of the deal and the Obama administration’s interpretation of it? If not, there really is no deal. The President just stated that there will be a 24/7, anytime, anywhere inspections. That's simply and completely untrue. The road was less travelled, because the Iranians cannot be trusted and were not negotiating in good faith. If weapons inspectors don’t have unfettered access to observe Iran’s nuclear program, compliance will never be met. The road was less travelled, because our enemies do not respect weakness. They only respect strength, consistently applied. Walking from a bad deal would have been more noble than weakness shown down a path less travelled for good reason. The President stated that the only alternative to whatever deal he entered into is war. I reject that. We could have done better at the negotiating table. The road was less travelled, because of the irony that the President just paved the path to worsening instability in the Middle East and a nuclear arms race in the region. If this prediction is questioned today, it is guaranteed that history will quickly and deeply unfortunately prove these thoughts correct. The President should have walked from this bad deal and strengthened his hand if later he chose to reengage. The beauty of our republic is that the final authority is not the President of the United States, but instead the American public through their duly elected representatives in the United States Congress. The Senate and the People’s House must act and affirmatively reject this “deal”. That is the critically important and most noble path forward for the rest of us very concerned about life, not just now, but also after the Obama Presidency.”
07.10.2015	Washington, DC – Today, July 10, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) announced that bipartisan legislation he co-sponsors, the 21st Century Cures Act (H.R. 6), has passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 344 to 77. “The 21st Century Cures Act is a key piece of legislation for the health of residents on our island and across the nation,” said Congressman Zeldin. “From helping deliver lifesaving or life improving cures and treatments to Long Islanders suffering from a disease, to providing our community with high-paying research and private sector jobs, this is a huge win for Long Island and I am proud to have worked with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to secure this bill’s passage.” The 21st Century Cures Act would remove barriers preventing research collaboration, increasing researchers’ access to essential data from previous research and clinical studies. Additionally, the legislation secures $10 Billion for the National Institutes of Health, which would provide additional research and development resources for Stony Brook, Brookhaven National Laboratory, and other science research laboratories on Long Island and across the nation. The legislation would also boost the field of personalized medicine, tailoring treatment to patients’ needs. SUNY Chancellor Nancy L. Zimpher said, “The nation’s colleges and universities - our public institutions, in particular - rely heavily on federal support for the advancement of medical research and innovation by our students, faculty, and staff. We appreciate Representative Zeldin's strong support for H.R. 6, the 21st Century Cures Act. This bill will put our scientists in a position not only to continue working toward life-saving medical technologies, treatments, and cures but also to attract research partners and additional investment.” Dr. Samuel L. Stanley Jr., President of Stony Brook University said, "Millions of Americans and their families are faced with the reality of deadly diseases like cancer, AIDS and Alzheimer's. It is very encouraging when leaders like Congressman Zeldin champion initiatives, such as the 21st Century Cures Act, which designates critical funding to our nation’s top research institutions, in order to advance discovery of life-saving treatment of these devastating diseases."
07.09.2015	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, July 8, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, and the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, spoke on the House floor regarding the nuclear negotiations with Iran. You can watch his floor speech here.
07.08.2015	Washington, DC – Today, July 8, 2015, an amendment offered by Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) to protect states that choose to opt out of Common Core passed the House of Representatives by an overwhelming vote of 373 to 57. This was an amendment to an education bill, H.R. 5, that was scheduled to be voted on later in the evening. The Zeldin Amendment would allow states to opt out of Common Core Standards, if they so choose, without fear that there will be any loss of federal funding as a result, bringing the control of education decisions back to the state and local level. Congressman Zeldin said, “While previously serving in the New York State Senate, I had countless conversations with various elected officials, educators, parents, and students, with regards to our shared and deeply held concerns with the implementation of Common Core. My amendment is the single most important action for New York State and other states to be permitted to withdraw from Common Core without fear of penalty from the federal government.” “As a father, I strongly believe we need to shift the focus in our classrooms from testing to teaching, to ensure our children never lose their love of learning,” Rep. Zeldin continued. “Improving our nation’s education system, and restoring local control and flexibility to Long Island parents and educators remains one of my top priorities in Congress.” You can view the text of the amendment here.
07.08.2015	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, July 8, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released a statement on the 16th anniversary of the executions of the Bytyqi brothers who were from Hampton Bays, New York. “Today, we remember Ylli, Agron, and Mehmet Bytyqi, of Hampton Bays, NY, who were senselessly and brutally murdered 16 years ago in Serbia,” Congressman Zeldin said. “Since I took office in January, my office has been working closely with the Bytyqi Family to help them receive the justice and closure they deserve after 16 years.” In July of 1999, three brothers, Ylli, 25 years old, Agron, 23 years old, and Mehmet Bytyqi, 21 years old, who were born in the United States, and resided in Hampton Bays, NY, went overseas towards the end of the Kosovo war and were arrested when they accidently crossed into Serbian-controlled territory. The brothers were arrested by Serbian authorities for illegally entering the country and brutally executed shortly after. While Serbian authorities have investigated the deaths of the brothers, there have been no charges brought against those responsible for these murders. Congressman Zeldin recently introduced a resolution (H.Con.Res.51) in the House of Representatives, with fellow House Committee on Foreign Affairs members Congressman Eliot Engel (D-NY), Congresswoman Grace Meng (D-NY), and Congressman Chris Smith (R-NJ), regarding the execution-style murders of the Bytyqi brothers. Congressman Zeldin concluded, “Together, as Americans, we must seek justice for these brutal murders. The Government of Serbia, and all relevant parties, must hold accountable those responsible for the executions of the Bytyqi brothers. The United States should also provide the resources necessary to fully assist with this effort because a 16 year fight for justice is far too long.” A copy of the resolution can be found here.
06.29.2015	Ronkonkoma, NY – On Saturday, June 27, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) spoke as a commencement speaker at Sachem North High School’s Class of 2015 Graduation ceremony. Congressman Zeldin congratulated the graduating class, which has over 550 students from the towns of Holbrook, Holtsville and Farmingville, and parts of Lake Grove, Lake Ronkonkoma, Ronkonkoma and Nesconset. He also recognized the Valedictorian Meagen Loyst and Salutatorian Evan Zheng. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above addressing the crowd during the graduation ceremony.
06.25.2015	Washington – Representatives Steve Israel (D-NY), Lee Zeldin (R - NY) and Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), members of the House Long Island Sound Caucus, announced today that they introduced bipartisan legislation, The Long Island Sound Restoration and Stewardship Act, to protect and restore the Long Island Sound. The Long Island Sound is a diverse ecosystem with more than 170 species of fish, over 1,200 invertebrates and many different species of migratory birds. Additionally, the Long Island Sound is home to more than 4 million people living in coastal communities around the Sound. Revenue generated by the Sound in the Long Island region from activities such as sport and commercial fishing, boating, recreation and tourism, is estimated to bring in over $8 billion a year. In recent years, the Long Island Sound has suffered severely from issues such as pollution. The Long Island Sound Restoration and Stewardship Act ensures the Sound is protected and restored for generations to come by authorizing $65 million in funding per year through 2020 for a water quality and shore restoration program and additional focus, oversight and coordination of federal activities related to the restoration of the Long Island Sound. “If my congressional district was a factory town, Long Island Sound would be the factory, generating more than $5.2 billion in direct wages and supporting at least 190,000 jobs,” said Congressman Steve Israel, lead Democratic sponsor of the Long Island Sound Restoration and Stewardship Act. “As Chair of Congress’ Long Island Sound Caucus, I have no greater local environmental and economic priority than getting this passed and signed by the President.” “I am proud to help lead the effort in the United States House to pass the Long Island Sound Restoration and Stewardship Act,” said Congressman Lee Zeldin, lead Republican sponsor of the Long Island Sound Restoration and Stewardship Act. “This legislation is necessary to help protect the Long Island Sound; an essential environmental resource that is so important to the life, culture and economy of Long Island.” “Long Island Sound is a regional and a national treasure, as well as a critical economic, recreational, and environmental resource,” said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro. “We have a responsibility to ensure its protection and preservation. As co-chair of the Congressional Long Island Sound Caucus, I will continue to fight for the funding needed to preserve this pristine, beautiful and vibrant ecosystem so that generations of Americans can continue to enjoy it.” New York Senators Kirsten Gillibrand (D – NY), Charles Schumer (D – NY), and Connecticut Senators Richard Blumenthal (D – CT) and Chris Murphy (D – NY) have introduced a companion bill in the United States Senate (S.1674). You can read the bill text here: Long Island Sound Restoration and Stewardship Act.pdf
06.25.2015	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, June 24, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) met with Brenden Snow of East Hampton High School in his Washington, DC Office. Brenden is the first place winner of the Congressional Art Competition for the First Congressional District: “The Artistic Discovery Contest” The House of Representatives hosts a nation-wide high school art competition every spring to raise awareness of the importance of art programs in our schools, and to recognize and celebrate the creativity and diversity of our art students. The winning artwork for each congressional district is displayed in the United States Capitol for one year. Brenden Snow and a guest received a flight to Washington, DC to see their artwork in the Capitol building courtesy of Southwest Airlines. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with Mr. Snow before attending the Congressional Art Competition reception for all first place winners across the country. Brenden’s winning artwork is pictured below.
06.22.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) just announced that he has co-sponsored a key piece of legislation for Long Island and our country: the 21st Century Cures Act (H.R. 6). “The 21st Century Cures Act is a bipartisan legislative effort in Congress to improve and modernize our nation’s healthcare by paving the way for healthcare innovation in the United States. This legislation would accelerate the process for scientific advancement, giving researchers access to the resources they need in order to advance their research and development, and help deliver lifesaving or life improving cures and treatments to the Long Island residents suffering from a disease," said Congressman Zeldin. Currently, there are over 7,000 identified diseases and disorders which affect more than 300 million people across the world. Sadly, we only have a cure for 500 of these diseases. The 21st Century Cures Act would remove barriers preventing research collaboration, increasing researchers’ access to essential data from previous research and clinical studies. Additionally, the legislation secures $10 Billion for the National Institutes of Health, which would provide additional research and development resources for Stony Brook, Brookhaven National Laboratory, and other science research laboratories on Long Island and across the nation. The legislation would also boost the field of personalized medicine, tailoring treatment to patients’ needs. Among other important aspects of the bill, the 21st Century Cures Act would ensure our country remains a leader in the medical industry field, which provides our community with high-paying research and private sector jobs. Over 140 members of Congress are now supporting this legislative initiative.
06.22.2015	Calverton, NY – On Friday, June 19, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) was given a tour of the Stony Brook University Business Incubator in Calverton by Sam Stanley, President of Stony Brook University, and Monique Gablenz, Director of the Program. The Stony Brook University Business Incubator, established in 2005, is a facility created to help strengthen and grow the agricultural, aquacultural and environmental industries on the East End of Long Island. Congressman Zeldin met with several business owners who are utilizing the facility's state of the art equipment to help start or grow their business. Pictured above outside the incubator, from left to right, are President Sam Stanley, Director Monique Gablenz, and Congressman Lee Zeldin.
06.19.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) just released the following statement calling for the raising of Dune Road: “Dune Road is an important roadway linking Long Islanders and others to the East End community, businesses and beautiful beaches. Unfortunately, Dune Road is badly in need of infrastructure support to improve its current state. This is an issue that has been ongoing for a long time, but has gotten significantly worse over the past few years. The road is prone to substantial and severe flooding, and becomes impassable during high tides, significant rainfall, and coastal storms. As the only emergency evacuation route for some, and a road traveled by thousands of residents daily, this is a serious safety concern to our community. Dune Road must be raised by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The road should be raised 18-24 inches, with some areas being widened 24 to 28 feet. It’s imperative that the Army Corps commit to raising Dune Road in the next phase of the Fire Island to Montauk Point Plan (FIMP). This must be a top priority for the Army Corps and must be include in the General Reevaluation Report (GRR)."
06.18.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) announced today that legislation he cosponsors, the Protect Medical Innovation Act (H.R. 160), just passed the US House of Representatives. The Protect Medical Innovation Act will repeal the medical device tax, a burdensome tax on medical device manufacturers and importers, which was a result of Obamacare. Medical device companies are taxed on their sales, whether or not they have made a profit that year. America has been a global leader in the medical device industry. It plays a critical role in the United States economy, employing over 400,000 Americans across the country. On average, jobs in the medical device industry pay 40% higher than the national average, providing Americans with high paying jobs. Repealing the medical device tax is especially important to Long Island, which is home to many medical device companies, as well as a number of research facilities; contributing to thousands of jobs and providing high quality care for Long Island patients. The medical device tax has led to job loss across the country with businesses laying off workers or reducing their workers’ hours, and driving American companies overseas in order to stay in business. The medical device tax also forces companies to push off their costs onto the consumers, hiking up costs on hospitals, doctors and patients. Furthermore this tax prevents innovation in the industry and suppresses competition, reducing the technological advancement of medical devices and directly hindering patient care and access to lifesaving treatments or cures. Congressman Zeldin said, “I strongly support the Protect Medical Innovation Act and was proud to vote for the repeal of the medical device tax, which hurts businesses and consumers here on Long Island. The medical device industry is an important part of Long Island’s economy with many manufacturing companies and research and development facilities located in the New York tristate area, which directly contributes to our economy and provides high paying jobs for our community.” The bill passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 280-140.
06.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – On June 17, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C - NY-1) presented Kavya Tangella of South Setauket with The Congressional Award Gold Medal in the United States Capitol. The Congressional Award Gold Medal of the United States Congress was established in 1979. The award is open to all young Americans aged 14-23. The purpose of this award is to honor those who set a goal and then achieved it. There are four aspects of the award: Volunteer Public Service, Personal Development, Physical Fitness, and Expedition/Exploration. The award recipient must have spent two or more years completing at least 400 hours of community service, 200 hours of both personal development and physical fitness activities, and a four-night Expedition or Exploration. For more information on applying for a Congressional Award, you can visit https://congressionalaward.org/. Pictured from left to right are Paxton Blake, Chairman, Congressional Award; Kavya Tangella; Congressman Zeldin; and U.S. Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV).
06.17.2015	Washington, DC – On June 17, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, and the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, spoke on the House floor regarding the effort to defeat ISIS. You can watch the video here: https://youtu.be/5rFGSX8Ghbc
06.15.2015	Washington, D.C. - On Monday, June 15, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley, NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, and the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, spoke on the House floor regarding Iran’s history of terror in anticipation of a possible agreement between the United States and Iran by June 30th. The Congressman discussed Iran’s long history of supporting terrorism and efforts to overthrow foreign governments, causing tension and turmoil in the Middle East, and threatening peace and democracy all across the globe. You can watch the video here: https://youtu.be/AqLWBYCHTBQ
06.15.2015	Farmingville, NY – On Saturday, June 13, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) hosted his first annual Service Academy Information Day at Brookhaven Town Hall for prospective students and their families to speak with representatives from Service Academies across the United States. Representatives from all the five service academies were in attendance to provide more information on their respective academy and answer any questions that attendees may have had. Members of Congress may nominate candidates for appointment to four of the five U.S. service academies: U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY; the U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD; the U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO; and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY. The fifth service academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA), New London, CT, does not require a congressional nomination for appointment. Congressman Zeldin’s Military Academy Nomination packet can be found online at https://zeldin.house.gov/services/military-academy-nominations, or you contact the Congressman’s Long Island office at (631) 289-1097. Congressman Zeldin is pictured addressing the attendees of the event.
06.12.2015	Washington, DC – Today, June 12, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C- Shirley, NY-1) voted No on the Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) legislation (H.R. 1314). Following his vote, the Congressman released the following statement: “Today, I voted NO on TPA. After reviewing the TPA legislation, and hearing from thousands of constituents in New York’s First Congressional District who contacted me almost entirely in opposition, and with serious questions still outstanding on the merits, I could not support this proposal. First off, the entire process of negotiating trade agreements needs to be improved. In reality, TPA legislation that is designed constitutionally and as effectively as possible should be passed before a negotiation is started, not 5 years into negotiations. Negotiating objectives should be set before negotiating, not towards the end. Furthermore, the process of turning off “fast track” should be made remarkably simple if negotiating objectives aren’t met. There also needs to be a process along the way that assures the American public that the negotiating objectives are being strictly and completely adhered to. On April 30th, 2015, I had my first opportunity to read the current draft of the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiations. I was left with the belief that the entire TPA debate is a little late to the dance. It is amazing just how much content is already in the text. I am a very strong believer that trade is a driving force in our economy. 38 Million American jobs are tied to trade. 38 million! Additionally, American jobs that are tied to trade abroad pay 16 percent more than the other American jobs not tied to trade. American exceptionalism is the United States taking the lead in the global economy. Increasing GDP, boosting a trade surplus, and exporting American goods all help to strengthen our economy and security. Growth opportunities are currently abroad with 96 percent of the world’s customers living outside our nation’s borders. Tariffs on American exports that exist in foreign countries are taxes and barriers to America increasing our Gross Domestic Product, improving our economy, and creating more American jobs. When the Japanese place barriers on American agriculture from entering Japan it may help the Japanese farmer, but it reduces competition, drives up prices, and hurts the Japanese economy. The agriculture industry in America is ready to increase exports to Japan and trade negotiations are the vehicle to bring down those barriers and create those opportunities. Let’s deliver more “Made in America” products to Asia instead of the other way around. This requires improving the business climate here in the U.S. with tax and regulatory policy changes. Modernizing and simplifying our tax code will be key. As for the TPA and TPP, my constituents are more confused today than at any other time in recent memory trying to figure out what exactly is America’s trade agenda. There should be no secrecy as to what specifically the President is trying to accomplish on trade. Aside from knowing what countries the President would like to negotiate new agreements with, for some reason the specifics of what he is asking for is not known by the American public. My staff and I have dedicated hours a day on average trying to determine these specifics. The best information I can find is in the Trans Pacific Partnership draft itself, but I can't discuss the details, because the whole thing is entirely classified. The President should have let the American public know so much more by now about what he is seeking to accomplish. In the lifetime of a nation like the United States of America, now is not too early or too late to recalibrate and reengage in a way that the American public feels like their voices and input are being heard and that their representatives in Congress are setting the conditions and not just going along to get along. This may be a top priority of the President and many of my House Republican colleagues, but my deliberations and decisions on these proposals must be approached with the independent spirit that represents the proud, independent character of my district. In just under 20 months, a new President takes office. Let’s use this time now hearing from the American public, employers and employees, the CEO and the regular Joe, and let’s get on the same page where the people’s voice is leading the way with a trade agenda that we are all more invested in, that Americans feel more a part of, and a new President with negotiating objectives set by Congress and the American people first.”
06.10.2015	Washington, D.C. – On June 9, 2015, the U.S. House of Representatives passed an amendment introduced by Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C - NY-1), to hold the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to it's prior written commitment to not take negative action against East Hampton Town with regards to the enactment of noise restrictions. The Zeldin Amendment was made to the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2016 (HR 2577). The Zeldin Amendment reads, “None of the funds made available by this Act may be used by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration to institute an administrative or civil action against the sponsor of the East Hampton Airport in East Hampton, NY.” This amendment ensures that the FAA standby it's previous written assurances made in 2012. East Hampton Town Supervisor Larry Cantwell said, “Congressman Zeldin supports local control and I want to thank him by sending a clear message to the FAA: Stand down. Allow the Town of East Hampton and its residents to determine how best to support our airport and reasonably reduce aircraft noise.” You can watch the Congressman speak on the House floor about the amendment here: You can view The Zeldin Amendment here: Zeldin_Amendement_6_9_15.pdf
06.08.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) just released the following statement regarding passage by the House of Representatives of the "Strengthening Fishing Communities and Increasing Flexibility in Fisheries Management Act" (HR 1335): “On Monday, June 1, 2015, the House of Representatives passed the “Strengthening Fishing Communities and Increasing Flexibility in Fisheries Management Act” (HR 1335) with a bipartisan majority. Being privileged to represent the east end of Long Island, which is surrounded on three sides by saltwater, I voted for this bill’s passage. The legislation provides desperately needed reforms to our current fisheries laws that would reinvigorate the rapidly fading traditional heritage of saltwater fishing on Long Island and elsewhere, while sacrificing none of the environmental and economic benefits of continuing to rebuild coastal fish stocks. The destructive impacts of rigid and arbitrary fish stock rebuilding timelines, which were imposed in 1998 under the “Sustainable Fisheries Act,” are painfully evident in New York’s Marine District. In the sixteen years since the implementation of the draconian ten year rebuilding mandate of that Act, the New York Marine District has hemorrhaged over 4,000 fishing related jobs and lost nearly $300 million in local fishing and seafood related revenue (with multipliers). In addition, during the same time period our nationwide import/export ratio of seafood has essentially been stood on its head. In 1998, the U.S. imported approximately 55% of its seafood. Since the ten year rebuilding timeline was implemented, our imports of seafood have skyrocketed to 92% and exports have all but disappeared, causing catastrophic job loss and economic upheaval in our coastal communities. Considering that the U.S. has the ninth longest contiguous coastline in the world and has access to some of the world’s most productive fishing grounds, this enormous trade imbalance is a disgraceful slap in the face of our hard working fishing communities, and is a direct result of the overzealous implementation of this rigid and politically expedient ten year rebuilding mandate. While the current policy has undoubtedly rebuilt some stocks, it has done so at the needless cost of tens of thousands of fishing families’ survival in coastal states throughout the country. A Pew Oceans Commission “white paper” published a poignant and painfully accurate summary by a Long Island fishing boat owner and advocate: “A ten year rebuilding timeline for overfished stocks may work fine for the fish, but to a fishing community, it may mean a foreclosed home, no money for a child’s education, a family on the brink, and a broken future.” (“Socioeconomic Perspectives on Marine Fisheries in the United States,” Pew Oceans Commission, 2003, quoting Bonnie Brady of the Long Island Commercial Fishing Association). Instead of the unnecessarily rigid ten year period we have been struggling under since 1998, the reforms introduced in this bill are based on science rather than idealogy. It would tie stock rebuilding timelines to species-specific reproduction cycles, in contrast to the existing arbitrary ten year mandate which ignores science for the sake of “feel-good” politics. The new rebuilding guidelines would allow fishery managers to effectively rebuild depleted stocks by considering the actual biological and ecological realities of each species, while at the same time providing the flexibility needed to restore economic growth opportunities for our beleaguered fishing communities. Despite the tremendous promise this bill offers for desperately needed economic growth coupled with environmental sensitivity, President Obama has threatened a veto if he is presented with it. This knee-jerk reaction to common sense reforms is apparently triggered by a concern that this bill allows managers to consider the “economic needs of fishing communities.” The President is clearly unaware that the original purpose of the Magnuson-Stevens Act in 1976 was to improve the economics of American fishing communities, a purpose that has been subverted over the years. A veto would harm the job creation effort for our hard working middle-class. Mr. President, before you pick up your veto pen, I invite you to Montauk, New York, in my district, which was formerly known as the “Fishing Capital of the World.” Please come and hear why this flexible and environmentally sensitive bill would help to assure the future prosperity and well-being of these families and their communities.”
06.03.2015	Washington, DC – On Tuesday, June 2, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C - Shirley), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, and the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, spoke at a "Americans Detained in Iran" hearing. The Congressman called on Iran to immediately free the American citizens who are being unjustly imprisoned in Iran and called on the President to ensure our citizens are returned home safely. The key witnesses at the hearing were family members of the Americans who are being held captive in Iran: Mr. Ali Rezaian, the brother of Jason Rezaia; Mrs. Nagameh Abedini, the wife of Saeed Abedini; Ms. Sarah Hekmati, the sister of former Marine Amir Hekmati; and Mr. Daniel Levinson, the son of Robert Levinson. You can watch the clip here.
05.21.2015	Washington, DC –Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (NY-1), Vice Chairman of the Subcommittee on Aviation, released a statement calling on the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to stand by specific assurances it had previously made. Earlier this week, East Hampton Town agreed to delay, for 3 weeks, implementation of recently imposed helicopter noise restrictions pending a court review. The FAA indicated in court that they might go back on that agreement. The Congressman sent a letter to the FAA on Monday, March 2, 2015, suggesting some possible solutions to help reduce helicopter noise on the East End of Long Island. In the letter, Congressman Zeldin references the 2012 assurances from the FAA to his predecessor, where the FAA states that they will not take negative action against the town if the town imposed reasonable restrictions. A copy of the letter can be found here. “I am extremely disappointed by the seeming reversal of the FAA’s long standing position that they would not oppose the Town of East Hampton’s effort to protect quality of life and reduce noise,” stated Congressman Zeldin. “Though they have not officially taken a position on the merits of East Hampton's proposals, the FAA's support for a Temporary Restraining Order (TRO) speaks volumes as the residents of the East End once again brace for another travel season. The FAA must stand by its assurances previously made in writing that the Town of East Hampton would not face negative action from the FAA if they chose to enact reasonable restrictions, as long as the town agreed to not take any new FAA funding. The people of East Hampton, through their democratically elected Town Board, have chosen this path because they believed the FAA would stand by its word. I intend to pursue what is necessary to hold the FAA to its assurances and to work with all interested parties on an effective solution that reduces helicopter noise on the East End this high season and in the long term. Reaching a real solution is more important than politics or bureaucracy.”
05.20.2015	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, May 20, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) met with the Montauk School’s eighth grade class on the steps of the United States Capitol before they toured the building. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with the Montauk School’s eighth grade class. To schedule a tour of the United States Capitol, and other government buildings in the area, you can call Congressman Zeldin’s Washington, DC office at (202) 225-3826 or you can visit his website here: https://zeldin.house.gov/services/tours-and-tickets.
05.14.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) today spoke on the House floor in favor of the Hezbollah International Financial Prevention Act of 2015 (H.R. 2297), which he Co-Leads; legislation that passed the House shortly thereafter. You can watch the clip here.
05.14.2015	Washington, DC – On Thursday, May 14, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) spoke on the House floor on the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015 (H.R. 1191), which will give Congress the review and final authority over the President’s potential nuclear agreement with Iran. You can watch the clip here.
05.14.2015	Washington, DC – On Thursday, May 14, 2015, during National Police Week, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) met with members of the Police Benevolent Association of Suffolk County in his Washington, DC office. The Congressman also spoke on the House Floor to recognize the service and sacrifice of the brave men and women who have lost their lives in the line of duty while serving to protect us. You can watch the speech here. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, from left to right, with Chris Erickson, Robert Cappadona, Carl Glaser, Mike Simonelli and Jeff Erickson.
05.12.2015	Orient, NY – On Tuesday, May 12, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, sent a letter to Anthony Foxx, the Secretary of Transportation at the U.S. Department of Transportation, requesting the permanent removal of the Cross Sound Enhancement Project from the America’s Marine Highway Program. On Wednesday, March 8, 2015, Congressman Zeldin sent a letter to Mr. Howie Mann from the New York Metropolitan Transportation Council (NYMTC) requesting the Cross Sound Enhancement Project be removed as a part of the NYMTC Regional Freight Plan and stating his concerns with the ill-advised plan to move 3,000 trucks from I-95 in Connecticut to the North Fork of Long Island, NY. The proposal was officially removed from the New York Metropolitan Transportation Council’s Regional Freight Plan on April 23. A copy of the letter to Secretary Foxx can be found here: Rep. Zeldin Letter to Secretary Foxx.pdf
05.11.2015	Stony Brook, NY – On Friday, May 8, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) met with Dr. Ya Wang, Assistant Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering, and her research team at Stony Brook University, who received a $2 million grant from the United States Department of Energy’s (DOE) Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA-E). Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with Dr. Ya Wang and Jeffery Ge, the Professor and Interim Chair of the Department of Mechanical Engineering.
05.07.2015	Patchogue, NY – On Monday, May 4, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) announced that Brenden Snow, student at East Hampton High School, is the winner of the Congressional Art Competition for the First Congressional District: “The Artistic Discovery Contest” The House of Representatives hosts a nation-wide high school art competition every spring to raise awareness of the importance of art programs in our schools, and to recognize and celebrate the creativity and diversity of our art students. The winning artwork for each congressional district is displayed in the United States Capitol for one year. The winner and a guest will receive a flight to Washington, DC to see their artwork in the Capitol building courtesy of Southwest Airlines. Congressman Zeldin said, “On behalf of the First Congressional District, I would like to offer my congratulations to Brenden Snow, the artist of ‘Atlantic Terrace,’ and winner of the 2015 Congressional Art Competition. I would also like to thank all of the students who participated in our art contest. My staff and I were truly amazed at the level of artistic talent of our high school students here in the First Congressional District. The creativity and enthusiasm that we saw in all of the artwork submitted for this contest was inspiring.” Pictured above with their artwork (from left to right) are Mia Karlin-Cappello, from East Hampton High School, who placed second in the competition, Edward Concilio, a representative for Southwest Airlines, who stood in for Brenden Snow, absent from the picture, and Julia M. Shi, from The Stony Brook School, who placed third in the competition
05.05.2015	Shirley, NY – On, Monday May 4, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) toured Plum Island. The Congressman met with federal officials who discussed the current and future status of the island, and provided a tour of historic Plum Island. The Congressman recently re-introduced legislation (HR 1887) to protect Plum Island, an island that is cherished by the local community, not only as an essential resource for research, but also for its abundance in cultural, historical, ecological, and natural resources. The Congressman’s bill, HR 1887, will reverse a 2008 law that mandated the public sale of Plum Island by the federal government to the highest bidder, preserving the island and allowing it to remain as an environmental resource, which will be persevered for generations to come. The Congressman is pictured above touring the land formerly used as the U.S. military’s Fort Terry during his visit to Plum Island.
05.04.2015	Manorville, NY- On Monday, May 4, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C- Shirley, NY-1), Member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, joined with Dr. George Ruggiero, a Peconic Bay Medical Center Board Member, Medical Director of the Peconic Bay Medical Center Gertrude and Louis Feil Campus for Ambulatory Care, and Peconic Bay Medical Center Chief of Family Medicine; the 106th Rescue Wing Color Guard, Patriot Guard Riders, officials from Peconic Bay Medical Center, local elected officials, veterans and community groups. After taking office in January, Congressman Zeldin launched a successful initiative between Peconic Bay Medical Center and the Department of Veterans Affairs to facilitate and secure an agreement for an East End health care facility for veterans and their families, the Peconic Bay Medical Center’s Veterans Support Program at the Gertrude and Louis Feil Campus for Ambulatory Care, which will be located at Peconic Bay Medical Center’s Manorville campus. This healthcare facility will offer a variety of healthcare services for veterans. Services include primary care for health maintenance, disease prevention, diagnosis and treatment of acute and chronic illnesses, patient education and counseling, as well as on site specialties including rheumatology, gastroenterology, colon and rectal surgery, general surgery, orthopedic trauma and metabolic bone disease, and soon to be introduced, nutrition therapy. The facility will be open seven days a week; Monday-Friday, from 7:30 am to 9:00 pm; Saturdays from 8:00 am to 4:00 pm; and Sundays from 8:00 am to 2:00 pm. The healthcare facility for veterans services will begin Tuesday, May 5, 2015. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “Over the past few months, I have been working closely with Peconic Bay Medical Center and the Department of Veterans Affairs to increase access to care for veterans who live on Long Island's East End. After so bravely serving our country, this facility will open up an important new option for veterans while still allowing them to continue receiving other services and ongoing treatment at the VA Hospital in Northport.” Andrew Mitchell, President and CEO of PBMC Health and Peconic Bay Medical Center said, “PBMC Health and Peconic Bay Medical Center are thrilled to be able to start the PBMC Veterans Support Program which will greatly change the quality of life for Veterans on the East End. We were thrilled to have the opportunity to partner with Congressman Lee Zeldin. This initiative truly embodies and supports the PBMC mission to provide quality, comprehensive and compassionate care close to home. Thank you to Congressman Zeldin for working with PBMC and supporting the men and women of our military.” “I am so happy to see that this population of selfless men and women will be able to receive care on the East End, in their own community. They have sacrificed so much and this is one way their community can show appreciation,” said James Earl, PBMC employee at the Feil Campus and former member of the Army Reserve Nurse Corps, part of the Army Professional Medical Command. Joe Sledge, the Public Affairs Officer at the Northport VA Medical Center said, “As Northport VA Medical Center is proud to care for America’s veterans, it is also gratifying to know that Peconic Bay Medical Center staff are making special efforts to expand services for their patients who served in the Armed Forces and for their family members.” “Ensuring that our veterans of all ages have access to healthcare is of paramount concern to me,” said County Executive Steve Bellone. “I thank Congressman Lee Zeldin and the Peconic Bay Medical Center for their willingness to devise a plan that will serve to provide veterans healthcare services in the Manorville area.” “After risking their lives for our country, our veterans often endure physical and mental health issues”, stated Assemblyman Fred Thiele. “I am pleased that Peconic Bay Medical Center has launched a new health care initiative to serve the needs of our East End veterans.” “This new affiliation with Peconic Bay Medical Center will greatly expand the availability of services to our East End Veterans without having to travel to the Northport VA Hospital. I applaud Congressman Zeldin for putting this partnership together for our Veterans,” stated Deputy Presiding Officer Jay Schneiderman. Riverhead Supervisor Sean Walter said, “Thank you to Congressman Zeldin and The Peconic Bay Medical Center for further enhancing healthcare services for our veterans on the East End of Long Island with the new ‘Veterans Support Program’ at Peconic Bay Medical Center's Manorville facility.”
04.27.2015	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, April 22, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs, and Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity, met with the Judge Advocates Association American Inn of Courts (JAAAIOC) Program in his Washington, DC office building. The Congressman discussed various military related issues currently before Congress. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with members of the program.
04.24.2015	Washington, DC – On Friday, April 24, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R – Shirley) and Senator Chuck Schumer (D – NY) jointly announced that they re-introduced the “Fluke Fairness Bill,” which will reform the current system that governs fluke regulation by creating a regional approach that updates quotas and standards based on sound geographic, scientific and economic data. The current system of federal regulations for fluke fishing has created a complicated patchwork of quotas and rules for each state in the region. Last year, the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission enacted a reform permitting New York anglers to keep five fluke of 18 inches or above during the 128-day season that starts early May. Before that most recent change, New York anglers could only keep four fluke of 19 inches or above, while New Jersey and Connecticut anglers in shared waters, such as Raritan Bay and the Long Island Sound, could keep five fish at 17.5 inches; a confusing and unnecessary burden on anglers in the tristate area. Without federal legislation, this issue will continue to arise year after year. The Fluke Fairness Bill provides a permanent solution to this lingering issue. Congressman Zeldin said, “Recreational and commercial fishing is one of the many great things about life, industry and culture here on Long Island and fluke is the most popular fish for recreational anglers in the New York area. I am proud to reintroduce this legislation in the House of Representatives. I look forward to working closely on this with Senator Schumer who has already been the leading force in the Senate." “Unfair catch quotas are a left hook to so many Long Island anglers and that’s why it is crucial to pass the ‘Fluke Fairness Act,’ which will benefit anglers who have long been restricted by unfair regulations dictated by outdated data,” said Senator Schumer. “The act will require federal regulators to design a fair fishery management plan based on the most up-to-date research. Using science and common sense, this legislation will permanently tackle the fluke problem that puts New York anglers at a serious disadvantage, and will level the playing field for anglers up and down the East Coast.”
04.22.2015	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, April 22, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, and the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, spoke at a House Foreign Affairs committee hearing titled, “Nuclear Agreement with Iran: Can’t Trust, Can We Verify?” Congressman Zeldin discussed whether the potential agreement should be viewed as a treaty, that a deal should include Iran recognizing the United States' right to exist, and how "snap back" sanctions that took several years to put into place won't just snap back. Many other important topics were also covered in a 6 minute video that can be viewed here.
04.22.2015	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, April 22, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs, and Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity, announced that he has introduced legislation to require the VA to pay accrued benefits to the estate of a deceased veteran (HR 1569). If passed and signed into law, this proposal will hold the VA accountable in paying out accrued benefit claims. In recent years, the VA has struggled to complete timely reviews of claims. Under current law, if a veteran passes away while the VA is still reviewing a claim, the VA no longer has to award the earned benefits. This bill will protect our service members by ensuring our veteran families, who rightfully earned and deserve their benefits, actually receive their benefits, even after the veteran passes away. Last week, Congressman Zeldin spoke about his bill during a legislative hearing for the Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs. The Congressman introduced the legislation last month. You can view the bill text here. Congressman Zeldin stated, “In our current system, many of our veterans have earned service related benefits due to injuries sustained on the battlefield. Those benefits, however, can only pass to a small group of individuals should the veteran pass away. If that veteran does not have a qualifying family member and passes away, the VA recoups the benefits that rightfully belong to the veteran. As we have seen over the past year, the VA has struggled to complete timely reviews of claims, and if a veteran passes away while the VA is still reviewing a claim, the VA no longer has to award the earned benefits. H.R. 1569 would require the VA to pay certain benefits that were earned by a veteran to the veteran's estate. Currently, only a veteran's spouse, minor child, or dependent parent(s) are eligible to collect the accrued benefits. By adding the estate to the current list of beneficiaries, adult children could now also receive the benefits earned should there be no other qualifying family members. Service members should be able to share the benefits they have earned with their families. This bill ensures that the benefits a veteran earns during his or her service stays with their family. Further, with the addition of this piece of legislation, the VA can no longer avoid awarding a claim to a veteran due to slow processing time. Not only will this bill protect the benefits that our veterans have earned, but it will also help maintain stricter levels of accountability at the VA.” You can view the Congressman’s speech here. This is the second veterans-related bill Congressman Zeldin has introduced since taking office in January 2015. The first bill the Congressman introduced, H.R. 1187, would eliminate the loan limit or the “maximum guarantee amount” of a loan that the VA can guarantee for a veteran. You can read more about this bill here.
04.20.2015	Stony Brook, NY – On Saturday, April 11, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) attended the Long Island State Veterans Home at Stony Brook University at the Air Force Association of Long Island's Vietnam veterans medal ceremony. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with Col. Thomas J. Owens, II, Base Commander, 106th Rescue Wing New York Air National Guard Base, Westhampton, NY; Fred Sganga, Executive Director of the Long Island State Veterans Home at Stony Brook University; Retired Col. William Stratemeir, Air National Guard; and Jonathan C. Spier, Associate Administrator, Long Island State Veterans Home at Stony Brook University.
04.20.2015	Hauppauge, NY – On Saturday, April 19, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) attended the Nesconset Fire Department Installation Dinner at the Upsky Long Island Hotel in Hauppauge. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with Incoming Chief James C. Keane.
04.17.2015	Shirley, NY – Today, April 17, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) announced that he re-introduced legislation (HR 1887) to protect Plum Island, previously sponsored by his predecessor, Congressman Tim Bishop. Situated between the Long Island Sound and Peconic Bay, Plum Island is cherished by the local community, not only as an essential resource for research, but also for its abundance in cultural, historical, ecological, and natural resources. HR 1887 will reverse a 2008 law that mandated the public sale of Plum Island by the federal government to the highest bidder, allowing for the continuation of the research and conservation efforts of the facility. The sale was originally agreed to in order to offset the cost of the $1.2 billion that would be spent to build a new facility, the Bio-and-Agro Defense Facility (NBAF) in Kansas. However, due to the costs associated with the cleanup and closure of Plum Island, and because of Southold Town zoning restrictions, the federal government would receive little to no compensation for the sale of Plum Island. Congressman Zeldin said, "Plum Island offers Long Island a unique research and environmental resource that should be persevered for generations to come. I have always supported keeping Plum Island open on Long Island and am fighting hard in Congress to do just that. I look forward to working with my colleagues from across the aisle, especially here in the tri-state area, as well as local environmental groups, to get this bill passed in the 114th Congress.” You can view the legislation here: HR1887.pdf
04.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, April 16, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C- NY 1) released a video message on his 100th day in office. You can view the video here.
04.15.2015	Washington, D.C. –On April 14, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C- NY 1) joined with a bipartisan group of Congressional Representatives and advocates to introduce the reauthorization of The James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, which he co-sponsors. The James Zadroga Act was originally passed in 2010, and established the World Trade Center (WTC) Health Program and the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund. These important programs are set to expire at the end of this year. The legislation introduced yesterday would permanently renew the funding for these programs ensuring that those first responders receive the care they deserve for years to come. The many advocacy groups included the International Association of Fire Fighters, National Association of Police Organizations, AFL-CIO, and The Feal Good Foundation, all committing to assist with the effort to secure passage of this important legislation. Congressman Zeldin said, “I’m proud to be here today to help reintroduce The James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act. It’s essential that The Zadroga Act is extended so that the necessary assistance is provided to our 9/11 first responders. After 9/11, we vowed to never forget; this is a critical way we can remember and help all of those who showed enormous amounts of courage and bravery in the aftermath of the attack on America. That’s why I co-sponsor the act and will be urging all of my colleagues to vote for it.” The legislation has significant bipartisan support in Congress, with over 40 co-sponsors.
04.14.2015	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C- NY 1) spoke last night on the floor of the House of Representatives regarding his concerns with the current direction of the P5+1 Iran Nuclear talks. Congressman Zeldin serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, as well as the Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee and the Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee. Representative Zeldin also co-chairs the House Republican Israel Caucus. You can view Congressman Zeldin’s speech on the House Floor here.
04.13.2015	Port Jefferson Station, NY – On Sunday, April 12, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) held a press conference at Comsewogue High School calling on Congress to pass the Student Testing Improvement & Accountability Act (HR 452). The Student Testing Improvement & Accountability Act was introduced this year by Rep. Chris Gibson and is co-sponsored by Congressman Zeldin. This legislation has bipartisan support in Congress with over 30 co-sponsors. The Congressman was joined by Dr. Joseph V. Rella, the Comsewogue School District's Superintendent of Schools; Dr. Michael J. Hynes, the Patchogue-Medford School District’s Superintendent of Schools; and Assemblyman Dean Murray; as well as local educators, parents and students. The Congressman discussed the importance of passing this bill to roll back federally mandated testing in our Long Island schools, reducing testing to pre-No Child Left Behind levels. “The Student Testing Improvement & Accountability Act will roll back federally mandated testing in our Long Island schools,” said Congressman Zeldin. “I believe in higher standards, but we need to stop the over testing in our schools. Challenging our students is important but they aren't guinea pigs. This is an important next step to shift the focus in our classrooms from testing to teaching and ensuring our children never lose their love of learning.”
04.13.2015	Calverton, NY – On Saturday, April 11, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – Shirley) attended the annual "Coffee with the Congressman" forum hosted by the Long Island Farm Bureau in Calverton. The focus of the discussion was on finding ways to work together to assist East End farmers who play a major role in the local Long Island economy. Congressman Zeldin is pictured speaking above with Long Island Farm Bureau Administrative Director Rob Carpenter, Long Island Farm Bureau President Karen Rivara, Brookhaven Supervisor Ed Romaine, local Riverhead farmer Phil Schmitt, and others.
04.13.2015	Westhampton, NY – On Wednesday, April 9, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) toured the 106th Rescue Wing New York Air National Guard Base in Westhampton. Congressman Zeldin received a tour of the 106th’s operations from Col. Thomas J. Owens, II, Base Commander. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above receiving a briefing on the unit’s utilization of the Black Hawk Helicopter from Sgt. Sean Browning and Col. Owens.
04.10.2015	Stony Brook, NY – On Thursday, April 9, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) spoke at Stony Brook University where he was a guest lecturer for an Introduction to American Government class. The congressman spoke on various local and national issues, and fielded several questions from students interested in current events in American politics.
04.09.2015	Ridge, NY – On Wednesday, April 8, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) hosted a forum at Leisure Village in Ridge between community residents and PSEG. The Congressman was also joined by Brookhaven Town Councilwoman Jane Bonner. Members of Congressman Zeldin’s staff were also in attendance to inform seniors of the latest information on Medicare and Social Security, as well as programs for veterans.
04.09.2015	Smithtown, NY – On Tuesday, April 7, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) hosted his Smithtown Mobile Office Hours at The Smithtown Historical Society’s Epenetus Smith Tavern. Mobile Office Hours allows residents to sit down with the Congressman or a staff member for a one-on-one meeting to discuss the issues or concerns most important to them
04.06.2015	Southampton, NY – On Friday, April 3, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) visited the Peconic Land Trust to offer congratulations for receiving the 2015 Environmental Champion Award. Congressman Zeldin recognized the organization for over 30 years of service to the East End of Long Island Congressman Zeldin is pictured above presenting a Certificate of Congressional Recognition to Peconic Land Trust President John Halsey; Julie Zaykowski, Director of Administration, Peconic Land Trust; Herb Stroebel, Executive Director of Hallockville Museum Farm; Vito Minei, Executive Director of Cornell Cooperative Extension; and other members of the Peconic Land Trust staff.
04.03.2015	Washington, DC - Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) released the following statement today after a Twitter post by Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif confirmed that Iran has not agreed to the Framework "Agreement" "Fact Sheet" released yesterday regarding the nuclear talks with Iran: "President Obama is telling the American public we have to approve of his nuclear dealings with Iran to find out what's in it. Meanwhile, the President is telling the Iranian government if you like your centrifuges, uranium and nuclear reactors, you can keep your centrifuges, uranium and nuclear reactors. Yesterday, President Obama released a fact sheet on the framework 'agreement' he reached with Iran. It turns out that Iran never agreed to what is in the Fact Sheet. The Iranian Foreign Minister just posted on Twitter that the "Fact Sheet" is just spin, not actually the facts of anything that was agreed upon. President Obama needs to immediately come clean to the American public on what exactly was agreed to. This is an extremely dangerous game the President is engaged in, misleading the American public on a nuclear negotiation with the world's biggest state sponsor of terror while getting played by Iran like a 5 string quartet at the negotiating table." Here is Iranian Foreign Minister's tweet refuting "fact sheet." Yesterday, Congressman Zeldin released a statement following the announcement of the framework "agreement," which you can view here.
04.02.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-01) released the following statement following today's update on the Iran nuclear negotiations. Congressman Zeldin, Co-Chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, as well as the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, and the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade: “Iran, the world's largest state sponsor of terrorism, has not been negotiating in good faith. While blowing up mock U.S. warships, overthrowing foreign governments and pledging to wipe Israel off the map, the President of the United States has been hell bent on cutting a deal with Iran by March 31st, just to cut a deal. This is what a bad deal looks like: Allowing Iran to continue enriching uranium and developing centrifuges, in any capacity, while the United States makes permanent concessions in exchange for temporary concessions on the part of the Iranians. Not a single nuclear facility in Iran will be closed. Who knows if the Iranians will even allow the necessary access to weapons inspectors or acknowledge all the terms of the final agreement. It should be noted that Iran has ample leverage at the U.N. Security Council considering Russia's vote. What we do know is that these negotiations are on pace to trigger a nuclear arms race in the Middle East. Although Iran claims they are developing nuclear capability only for peaceful purposes, it’s hard to believe them when they have shown absolutely zero indication whatsoever of a genuine willingness to abandon its nuclear program, while they continue to act in bad faith and bring instability to the Middle East. Furthermore, this bad 'agreement' didn't even touch on Iran's development of Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles (ICBMs). What else will the United States concede to in this 'deal' over the next few months? A bad deal with Iran is worse than no deal at all. Today America and our allies have been set backwards in the noble quest to secure the free world.”
04.01.2015	Stony Brook, NY – On Friday, March 27, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) visited the Long Island State Veterans Home at Stony Brook University to celebrate the 20th Anniversary of the Adult Day Health Care Program. Pictured from left to right are: Jean Brand, Director of Adult Day Health Care; Congressman Lee Zeldin; two health care participants; New York State Senator Kenneth LaValle; and Fred Sganga, Executive Director or Long Island State Veterans Home.
04.01.2015	Central Islip, NY – On Tuesday, March 31, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) was the Keynote Speaker at the Veteran’s Court Graduation. Pictured with Congressman Zeldin are Veterans Court mentors from the Vietnam Veterans of America Chapter #11; Hon. Glenn A. Murphy, Supervising Judge, Suffolk County District Court; Hon. C. Randall Hinrichs, Suffolk County District Administrative Judge; Thomas Spota, Suffolk County District Attorney; Hon. John J. Toomey, Presiding Judge, Suffolk County Veterans Court; Hon. Andrea Harum-Schiavoni, Presiding Judge, East End Veterans Court; District Court Judge Pierce Cohalan, and other Veterans Court supporters.
03.30.2015	Wading River, NY – On Saturday, March 28, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) attended the 82nd Anniversary Installation of Officers of the Centereach Fire Department in Wading River.
03.30.2015	Jamesport, NY – On Saturday, March 28, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) attended the 2nd Annual St. Patrick’s Day Parade in Jamesport. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, from left to right, with Riverhead Councilman George Gabrielsen, Suffolk County Legislator Al Krupski, Riverhead Supervisor Sean Walter, Assemblyman Tony Palumbo, and Riverhead Councilwoman Jodi Giglio.
03.30.2015	Patchogue, NY – On Saturday, March 28, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) celebrated the Patchogue Fire Department’s 135th Anniversary at their Annual Installation Dinner. Congressman Zeldin presented Ken Meyer with a flag that was flown over the Capitol for his 50 years of service to the Patchogue Fire Department. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above, from left to right, with Patchogue Fire Department Director Ryan Murphy, Patchogue Fire Chief Jeffrey Baer, Brookhaven Town Councilman Neil Foley, Ken Meyer, and Patchogue Village Mayor Paul Pontieri.
03.27.2015	Washington, DC – On Thursday, March 26, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) spoke at the House Foreign Affairs Committee Hearing: “The Administration’s Strategy to Confront ISIS,” where three top U.S. military Generals spoke as witnesses. Following the hearing, Congressman Zeldin stated, "It is still unclear what exactly President Obama means when he says that there will not be any 'boots on the ground'. In response to my questioning, General (Ret) John Allen discussed how paratroopers from the 82nd Airborne Division were being deployed to Iraq. Will U.S. special operations forces, 82nd Airborne Division paratroopers, or any other military personnel be used to conduct any offensive military operations on the ground? The question remains unanswered as well as determining whether President Obama has delegated the authority to make that determination to anyone under him in the Chain of Command." You can watch it here.
03.24.2015	Washington, DC – On Monday, March 24, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) met with representatives from Brookhaven National Laboratory, the State University of New York at Stony Brook, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, and Jefferson Laboratory to discuss the essential role that nuclear physics research plays in the United States.
03.23.2015	Patchogue, NY – Today, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) announced that the Army Corps of Engineers has awarded the Downtown Montauk Project, a key dune stabilization project in the First Congressional District of New York. On Friday, March 20, 2015, the Army Corps awarded the Montauk project to the lowest bidder, H & L Construction, for $8,416,000. This project is fully funded by the federal government, and sponsored by the Town of East Hampton. The restoration project will provide vital shoreline protection for Montauk residents. Congressman Zeldin said, “Originally, this project was slated for completion before Memorial Day of 2015 before one delay after another continued to push this project back. Since January, my office has worked very closely with the Army Corps of Engineers, the New York State DEC, State Senator Ken Lavalle, State Assemblyman Fred Thiele, and the local government led by Town Supervisor Larry Cantwell to ensure that this project remained on course to get completed without any further delay. This project is essential to the East End and I will continue to monitor the progress of this project to make sure it is completed.” Assemblyman Fred Thiele stated, "The Downtown Montauk Project is essential from both the perspective of public safety and the local economy. I am pleased that this emergency project is moving forward and thank Congressman Zeldin for his efforts to get the bid awarded. Hopefully, this will be a first step toward protecting Montauk. I look forward to additional measures as the larger Fire Island to Montauk project proceeds in the coming months." East Hampton Town Supervisor Larry Cantwell said, "The emergency beach stabilization project is a critical first step in protecting downtown Montauk and our local economy short term. The Fire Island to Montauk Point Plan must follow quickly to provide the long term protection necessary for Montauk."
03.20.2015	Hampton Bays, NY – On Friday, March 20, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) attended the Hampton Bays School District’s monthly flag changing ceremony, which is hosted by the school district along with the American Legion Hand-Aldrich Post 924 and VFW Post 5350. The ceremony is held each month to honor a Veteran. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with Lilla Shattuck, this month’s flag ceremony honoree, and eighth grade students from Hampton Bays Middle School.
03.18.2015	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, March 8, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C - NY-1), sent a letter to Mr. Howie Mann from the New York Metropolitan Transportation Council (NYMTC) requesting the Cross Sound Enhancement Project be removed as a part of the NYMTC Regional Freight Plan and stating his concerns with the ill-advised plan to move 3,000 trucks from I-95 in Connecticut to the North Fork of Long Island, NY. Congressman Zeldin strongly believes that the North Fork of Long Island is not equipped to handle that proposed truck traffic. The letter can be found here: 3_18_15 Zeldin letter to NYMTC.pdf.
03.17.2015	Washington, DC –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C - NY-1), Member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, and two Veterans Affairs Subcommittees: the Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs, and the Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity, introduced his first bill, H.R. 1187, which would eliminate the loan limit or the “maximum guarantee amount” of a loan that the VA can guarantee for a veteran. The bill has bipartisan support in Congress, with co-sponsors Congressman Mark Takano (D-CA) and Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-CA). “This bill is very helpful for veterans living in areas with a high cost of living, such as Long Island," said Congressman Zeldin. "This is an issue that many veterans have called my office concerned about. I introduced this bill because after serving our country, our veterans have earned this support of a grateful nation. This legislation will address that issue by providing the VA with the flexibility to determine the appropriate limit for all veterans’ loans.” Congressman Zeldin has been a vocal advocate for veterans during his time in public service. While serving in the New York State Senate, Congressman Zeldin created the PFC Joseph Dwyer Peer Support Program and also wrote the law to protect our military families from protests at military burials. Congressman Zeldin concluded, “It’s important that after laying their lives on the line, our veterans receive access to resources to improve their quality of life following their military service. There is so much more we can do to improve life for our veterans and I will continue this important fight in Congress.” Suffolk County has the highest veteran population in New York State and the second highest in the nation. The text of the bill can be found here.
03.16.2015	Patchogue, NY – On Wednesday, March 11, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1), hosted a press conference at Teachers Federal Credit Union (TFCU), joining with Patchogue Mayor Paul Pontieri and members of TFCU and IRS, to raise awareness of the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC), a tax credit that benefits many working individuals and families, but unfortunately, is often underutilized. The EITC is a tax credit for those individuals and families with low to moderate income levels. In order to qualify, an individual must meet certain requirements. They would also need to file a tax return, even if they are not otherwise required to file, or do not owe any taxes. More information on the EITC is available at the IRS website at: https://www.irs.gov/Individuals/EITC-Home-Page-Its-easier-than-ever-to-find-out-if-you-qualify-for-EITC
03.12.2015	Northport, NY – On Wednesday, March 11, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) toured the Northport VA. Pictured above, from left to right, is Dr. Monique Thorne, Nurse Manager CLC 4; Congressman Zeldin; Bernadette Y. Jao, Acting Associate Director Patient Care Services; Judy Ingrassia, Associate Chief Nurse Geriatrics & Extended Care; Tanya Ryan, Nurse manager CLC 3; Alisa Tribley, Nurse manager CLC 1; Philip Moschitta, Director; and Richard Kitson, Chief Volunteer Services.
03.12.2015	Ronkonkoma, NY – On Wednesday, March 11, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1), toured the New York Air Route Traffic Control Center, or NY Center. Pictured above, from left to right, is Michael Golden, Air Traffic Manager; Congressman Lee Zeldin; Dave Romano, Air Traffic Controller and NATCA Legislative Representative; John Fox, Air Traffic Controller and NATCA VP NY Center; and Bill Ordon, Air Traffic Controller and NATCA Area B Representative.
03.09.2015	Washington, DC – On Tuesday, March 3, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C- Shirley, NY-1), member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, greeted Joe Cognitore, VFW Rocky Point Post #6249 Commander, and Dennis Sullivan, VFW Department of New York State and Centereach Post #492, who were both visiting our nation’s capital. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above (center) with Joe Cognitore (left) and Dennis Sullivan (right).
03.08.2015	Washington, DC – On Sunday, March 8, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C - NY-1), Vice Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Aviation, joined with local elected officials and community groups at Southold Town Hall to stress the importance of finding an immediate solution to the helicopter noise issue on the East End of Long Island. Congressman Lee Zeldin said, “The persistent issue of helicopter noise on the East End, summer after summer, has become an increasing impediment on the quality of life of many of my constituents. That’s why I am calling on the FAA to find an immediate solution for this problem, especially since it continues to get worse. Today, I joined with local elected officials from across the East End to unite together to pursue common sense solutions to reduce helicopter noise. My constituents cannot afford to have another season ruined by disruptive noise. This is an important quality of life concern that must be resolved.” On Monday, March 2, 2015, Congressman Zeldin sent a letter to the FAA, suggesting some possible solutions to help reduce helicopter noise on the East End of Long Island. A copy of the letter can be found here. New York State Assemblyman Fred W. Thiele, Jr. noted, “Helicopter noise continues to be a substantial problem on the East End. It has, and will continue to negatively affect the quality of life for year-round residents and adversely impact our regional economy dependent on tourism and the second home industry. East End elected officials, representing all levels of government, must renew efforts to work together to facilitate an end point which is favorable to all of our constituents and the Town of East Hampton. This is a case where we must protect the home rule powers of East Hampton Town.” Legislator Al Krupski said, “Local control can’t cover all the issues as it relates to regulating helicopter traffic, so it is good to have strong representation on the federal level from Congressman Zeldin.” East Hampton Town Supervisor Larry Cantwell said, “The Town Board of East Hampton appreciates Congressman Zeldin’s support for local control of the East Hampton Airport, the epicenter of the aircraft noise issue, in the ongoing effort to mitigate this noise, which affects so many residents across the East End.” Shelter Island Town Supervisor James Dougherty said, “I am delighted and grateful for Congressman Zeldin’s support on this terrible issue for Shelter Island. Those who enjoy the benefits of the helicopter flights should endure the noise and pollution. It’s as simple as that.” Congressman Zeldin was joined at the press conference by Assemblyman Fred Thiele; Legislator Al Krupski; Southold Supervisor Scott Russell; Deputy Southold Supervisor Bill Ruland, Shelter Island Town Supervisor James Dougherty; East Hampton Supervisor Larry Cantwell; Southold Councilmembers: Bob Ghosio and Jill Dougherty; Riverhead Councilmembers Jodi Giglio, George Gabrielsen, John Dunleavy and James Wooten; East Hampton Councilwoman Kathee Burke-Gonzalez; Southold Town Trustee Dave Bergen; Southold Helicopter Committee; Gabreski Airport Noise Mitigation Work Group; The Noyac Civic Council; The Orient Association; and The Quiet Skies Coalition.
03.06.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, and Congressman Lee Zeldin, this week sent a letter to IRS Commissioner John Koskinen asking for information regarding the tax-exempt status of The PeaceWorks Network Foundation, most commonly known by the name “OneVoice,” after several media reports indicating OneVoice, a tax-exempt 501(c)(3) organization, has been using its resources to influence the outcome of the upcoming Israeli elections. “The Islamic Republic of Iran is pursuing the deadliest weapons on the planet, and there can be no doubt that their first target will be Israel, followed by the United States,” said Sen. Cruz. “Yet the Obama Administration seems much more interested in regime change in Jerusalem than in Tehran. In January, Rep. Zeldin and I sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry asking for information about whether the United States government is funding overtly political action in Israel designed to influence the upcoming election. While we still don’t have complete answers from Sec. Kerry, OneVoice’s actions raise significant questions about whether it has violated its tax-exempt status as a 501(c)(3) organization.” “It's abundantly clear that OneVoice, a U.S. taxpayer funded 501(c)(3), is fully engaged in political activities to oust the Israeli Prime Minister,” said Rep. Zeldin. “It is important for IRS Commissioner Koskinen to assist with our efforts to hold OneVoice responsible for any possible violation of its tax exempt status. U.S. law must always be consistently enforced, and the IRS Commissioner must not make any special exception for OneVoice.” As specified in the letter, a recent article in the Israeli newspaper Haaretz reports that a U.S. taxpayer-funded non-profit organization called OneVoice is actively working with a campaign operation called Victory 2015 (V15) in an effort to influence the upcoming elections in Israel on March 17, 2015. The letter continues: “Other media reports indicate that OneVoice ‘helped build the social network group [V15] into a proper campaign organization,’ and that ‘OneVoice has and still supports, according to statements it has also issued on its own behalf, the V15 campaign intended to topple Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, openly and declaratively.’ Another source has reported that one of the founders of V15 confirmed in an interview that V15 receives financial support from OneVoice: V15 itself says that it is supported by the OneVoice organization. Nimrod Dweck, one of the founders of V15, told Israel’s Channel 2 anchor, Keren Neubach, that ‘OneVoice writes our receipts. They are our legal-organizational conduit.’ (emphasis added)” The Internal Revenue Code clearly states that organizations that are exempt from the collection of income tax under Section 501(c)(3) may “not participate in, or intervene in (including the publishing or distributing of statements), any political campaign on behalf of (or in opposition to) any candidate for public office.” This is an absolute prohibition, and the tax-exempt status of any organization that violates it is subject to revocation. As a result, Sen. Cruz and Rep. Zeldin requested that the IRS undertake the following preservation efforts, effective immediately: 1. Preserve all documents and records, including e-mail, e-mail-based calendar appointments, electronic documents, and other electronic data (electronic records), created since the date of The PeaceWorks Network Foundation’s request for non-profit organization status under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code that relate to OneVoice. For the purposes of this request, “preserve” means taking reasonable steps to prevent the partial or full destruction, alteration, testing, deletion, shredding, incineration, wiping, relocation, migration, theft, or mutation of electronic records, as well as negligent or intentional handling that would make such records incomplete or inaccessible. 2. Exercise reasonable efforts to identify and notify former Treasury employees and contractors, subcontractors, and consultants who may have access to such electronic records that they are also to be preserved. 3. If it is the routine practice of any Treasury component, employee, or contractor to destroy or otherwise alter such electronic records, either halt such practices immediately, or arrange for the preservation of complete and accurate duplicates or copies of such records, suitable for production if requested. Cruz and Zeldin also requested that the IRS answer the following questions and provide the following information no later than March 9, 2015: 1. A copy of The PeaceWorks Network Foundation’s Section 501(c)(3) application (or the Section 501(c)(3) application of any component or subsidiary organizations’ of The PeaceWorks Network Foundation, including any of the “OneVoice” organizations’). 2. A copy of The PeaceWorks Network Foundation’s (or any component or subsidiary organizations’, including any of the “OneVoice” organizations’) Internal Revenue Service Form 1023 and related documentation. 3. IRS’s position on whether The PeaceWorks Network Foundation’s (or any component or subsidiary organizations’, including any of the “OneVoice” organizations’) activities, as discussed in the provided public domain news accounts, indicate that the organization may be engaged in political activity. 4. IRS’s position on whether it considers The PeaceWorks Network Foundation’s (or any component or subsidiary organizations’, including any of the “OneVoice” organizations’) political activities violate its tax-exempt status as a non-profit organization under 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3). 5. IRS’s position on whether The PeaceWorks Network Foundation’s (or any component or subsidiary organizations’, including any of the “OneVoice” organizations’) activities, including its partnership with the foreign campaign organization known as Victory 2015 (V15) violate either Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, any other provision of the Internal Revenue Code, or any other federal statute or regulation. 6. Any additional information in IRS’s possession about how The PeaceWorks Network Foundation (or any component or subsidiary organizations, including any of the “OneVoice” organizations) spends its funds, including any voluntary or involuntary financial reporting information. 7. What, if any, steps the IRS is taking to investigate The PeaceWorks Network Foundation’s (or any component or subsidiary organizations’, including any of the “OneVoice” organizations’) potential engagement in political activities, as described above. In the letter, Cruz and Zeldin wrote, “Of course, private American citizens are free to engage in political activities according to their inclinations. It is not the role of the IRS to limit the free speech protections of the First Amendment or target organizations for their political beliefs. But in this case, OneVoice has not only received State Department grant funding for its activities, but is also potentially using its grant funding to directly impact a foreign election, and that, on its face, violates its status with the IRS.”
03.04.2015	Washington, DC – On Monday, March 2, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C- Shirley, NY-1), Vice Chairman of the Subcommittee on Aviation, sent a letter to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), suggesting some possible solutions to help reduce helicopter noise on the East End of Long Island. You can view a copy of the letter here.
03.03.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) released the following statement in response to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s address to a joint session of Congress today: “I was honored to take part in and listen to the Prime Minister of Israel’s historic address to the American people, where he offered his firsthand experiences and insight to us. The Prime Minister spoke of the threat that Iran poses to not only his country, but to the world. As a global community, we cannot allow Iran, a government involved in state sponsored terrorism, to inch closer towards nuclear capability. Nuclear weapons in the hands of our enemies would have serious consequences on our security, and our allies’ security, resulting in increased threats, heightened confrontations and turmoil across the globe. We must do everything possible to stop Iran from ever having nuclear capabilities. Iran has brought instability to the Middle East and does not act in good faith. The Prime Minister reinforced to Congress today that he does not oppose an agreement with Iran; he opposes a bad agreement. The Iranian regime has shown no indication that it’s willing to abandon its nuclear program. Iran continues to get by with billions of dollars in relief from sanctions, as they continue to successfully buy more time and continue to pursue nuclear capability. Today’s speech reinforced the United States’ loyalty to our greatest ally Israel during this critical hour. There was no better time for the Prime Minister to address Congress, especially as the Obama administration prepares to make foolish concessions to Iran, as Iran threatens to wipe Israel off the map. I strongly believe that a bad deal with Iran is worse than no deal at all. Iran must not be permitted to enrich uranium, maintain their centrifuges, and block access to weapons inspectors. America also should not make a slew of permanent concessions on our side in return for temporary concessions on the part of Iran. Now is the time for members from both sides of the aisle to work together to strengthen our relationship with Israel, our strategic partner in the Middle East, a beacon of democracy, freedom and liberty in an area filled with darkness. It is my hope that the Obama administration will start standing with our allies in Israel and stop protecting our enemies. We live in a great, free, exceptional nation with the same enemies that Israel has. Americans remain strongly committed to our nation's greatest ally, Israel, because a threat to Israel, is a threat to the United States.”
03.02.2015	East Hampton, NY – On Monday, February 23, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C-NY-1) attended the opening of the Google Chrome Lab at Project MOST in East Hampton. The lab was made possible through a $31,000.00 grant from State Farm. Project MOST, a not for profit organization, is a critical resource in our community, giving children a safe place to go after school and providing them with the tools necessary to grow and learn, with the goal of forming lifelong learners. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above in the Google Chrome Lab.
02.27.2015	On Thursday, February 26, Congressman Lee Zeldin spoke on the House Floor in support of "The Zeldin Amendment," which is the single most effective way for the federal government to address the concern of New Yorkers who want to withdraw from Common Core. Click here to read the text of the Amendment https://amendments-rules.house.gov/amendments/Zeldincc1223151527482748.pdf You can watch the speech here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cmg3y-84iaU&feature=youtu.be
02.23.2015	Riverhead, NY – On Friday, February 20, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) hosted his 4th annual Black History Month Ceremony at the Suffolk County Community College Culinary Arts Institute in Riverhead. The Congressman presented awards to five individuals recognizing them for their dedicated service to our community. The 2015 honorees were Reverend Doctor H.G. McGhee, Pastor of First Baptist Church of Bridgehampton; Adrian Fassett, CEO of Economic Opportunity Council of Suffolk; Doctor Frances Brisbane, Dean of School of Social Welfare SUNY Stony Brook; Reverend Doctor Beresford Adams, Assistant Commissioner of Suffolk County Police Department; and Frederick Combs, Executive Director of Bellport Hagerman East Patchogue Alliance. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with honorees and other event participants.
02.18.2015	Sag Harbor, NY – On Monday, February 16, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) was a guest on the local radio station WLNG (92.1 FM) with host Dan Duprey. Long Island residents were able to call in and ask their Congressman questions and discuss their concerns. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above in WLNG’s Sag Harbor studio.
02.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – On Thursday, February 12, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R,C – NY-01), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, and Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, spoke during today’s House Foreign Affairs Committee Hearing titled “The Growing Strategic Threat of ISIS." You can watch the video here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BC1OZ0rbSPY.
02.11.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C – NY-1) released the following statement in response to the President’s request today for Congressional authorization for the use of military force against ISIS. "The President is now coming to Congress for authorization of force against ISIS. The big question in deciding my vote is whether the strategy will be to actually get the job done with an overwhelming use of force or if the plan is to just give it half an effort. The wording of the Joint Resolution is almost completely barren on strategy. I will absolutely support an authorization for the use of force as long as we are operating on a strategy that will be effectively executed with overwhelming precision. The President still has not detailed a willingness to accept that the current strategy will not be enough to defeat ISIS. I will not endorse anything less that would set up our troops to fail. How many American troops does the President want to use? What kinds of troops? Who is in charge and are they being given the flexibility and resources they need? What does "necessary and appropriate" mean to the President? What limitations does the President plan on implementing on his own? Which nations are our partners and what specifically are their roles? Congress has a duty on behalf of our constituents and our military to ask these important questions and other questions and the President has a duty to respond with brutal honesty. There is no need at all for any type of occupation or sustained presence. There is no need to approach this as if it’s a conventional battlefield requiring lots of troops. I believe in American exceptionalism and our ability to be strong, resolute and confident in the execution of a precise, overwhelming, and devastating blow. Yes, our military has been overstretched. The conflicts from over the past decade have been costly with American lives, limbs and money, most importantly lives. Birthdays have been missed, holidays and anniversaries. The sacrifice has been great. Mark my words, if we do not partner with our allies now and step up quickly and aggressively, it will be 100 times more challenging if we wait 5 more years. You cannot simply wish this conflict away. Sometimes you look for conflict, but other times, like now, conflict finds you. With all this being said, the strategy must be to win quickly with overwhelming precision. I will not ever support sending the world's finest soldiers into battle to fail. That is the litmus test."
02.05.2015	On Tuesday, February 3, Lieutenant General (LTG) William Grisoli, the Director of the Army Staff, presented Congressman Lee Zeldin with the official Army seal to display in his Washington, D.C. office. The Army seal was presented to the Congressman in recognition of his military service as a U.S. Army Veteran and current Army Reserve Major. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with LTG William Grisoli, holding the official Army seal.
01.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Ted Cruz, R-Texas, and U.S. Congressman Lee Zeldin, R-NY-01, today sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry asking for information regarding media reports that U.S. taxpayer dollars are being used to fund efforts to influence upcoming elections in Israel. “Has President Obama launched a political campaign against Prime Minister Netanyahu and his representatives?” Senator Cruz said. “This administration’s relentless harassment of Israel is utterly incomprehensible. The Islamic Republic of Iran is pursuing the deadliest weapons on the planet and there can be no doubt that their first target will be Israel, followed by the United States. This administration should be focusing its animosity on the very real enemies we face, not on our staunch allies.” “It is completely unacceptable to use U.S. tax dollars to influence the elections in Israel,” said Congressman Zeldin. “State Department grants should never be given to entities working to overthrow strong allies like Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. We have great allies around the world, but Israel is our strongest, and a beacon of freedom in a region filled with radical Islamic extremists and state sponsored terrorism. Today, I join with Sen. Ted Cruz in calling for a U.S. Department of State investigation into this important matter.” As specified in the letter, a recent article in the Israeli newspaper Haaretz, reports that a U.S. taxpayer-funded non-profit organization called OneVoice is actively working with a campaign operation called Victory 2015 (V15) in an effort to influence the upcoming elections in Israel on March 17, 2015. As a result, Sen. Cruz and Rep. Zeldin request answers to the following eight questions: 1. How much funding has the U.S. Government provided to OneVoice, PeaceWorks Network Foundation, and any connected initiatives, projects or subsidiaries? 2. Who approved providing such funds? 3. What is the oversight and accounting process for how these funds are being spent? 4. How often and on what dates has such funding been provided? 5. What were the specific reasons and terms for providing funds, and how are these funds specifically being spent? 6. Can the Department of State guarantee that none of these funds have been or will be used in the endeavor detailed above, namely the partnership with V15, or any similar effort to exert undue influence over the Israeli political process? 7. Was there any knowledge from the State Department or other U.S. government officials of the partnership with V15 prior to providing funds to OneVoice? 8. Does OneVoice’s work with V15 violate its 501(c)(3) status (or the status of the PeaceWorks Network Foundation) as a tax-exempt organization and should such status be revoked? In the letter, Cruz and Zeldin write, “Of course private American citizens are free to engage in political activities according to their inclinations, but given the overtly partisan nature of this particular case, we are deeply concerned by the relationship that also exists between OneVoice and the U.S. Department of State.” Full text of the letter can be found below. January 29, 2015 The Honorable John Kerry Secretary of State Department of State 2201 C Street N.W. Washington, DC 20520 Dear Mr. Secretary: We write to express strong concerns over the recent media reports that a U.S. taxpayer funded 501(c)(3) non-profit[1] organization called OneVoice is actively working with a campaign operation called V15 or “Victory 2015” in an effort to influence the outcome of the elections in Israel on March 17, 2015. On January 26, 2015, the Israeli newspaper Haaretz reported[2] on the close coordination between these two entities. The reporter described his visit to the campaign operation in Tel Aviv, Israel, and the significant role Jeremy Bird, President Obama’s former deputy national field director (2008) and national field director (2012), is playing with V15. The Haaretz report makes clear that the purpose of this alliance is to advance a particular ideological agenda: “With the help of American money and a former campaign adviser to President Barack Obama, V15 is trying to replace Israel’s government. The money and organization comes from V15’s partnership with OneVoice…OneVoice is expected to merge with V15 before the March 17 election.”[3] One of the lead V15 organizers reiterated this point to the Haaretz reporter, noting that instead of calling the operation “Anyone but Bibi,” members of V15 merely phrase it slightly differently: “We say ‘replace the government,’ it’s not directed at specific individuals. There have been many years of right-wing governments during which little happened, it’s time to change course and give people hope… We will go to homes and we will win…The work with the research team that Bird brought has really ignited sparks…”[4] The January 27th OneVoice press release confirmed this goal. As its Executive Director declared, “We need a prime minister and a government who will be responsive to the people.” [5] Of course private American citizens are free to engage in political activities according to their inclinations, but given the overtly partisan nature of this particular case, we are deeply concerned by the relationship that also exists between OneVoice and the U.S. Department of State. OneVoice lists the State Department as a partner on its website.[6] In its 2013 annual report, the CEO of OneVoice touted the organization’s work “together in partnership with the U.S. Embassy in Tel Aviv and the U.S. Consulate General in Jerusalem…made possible by two parallel U.S. Government grants.” [7] According to a U.S. government website, OneVoice twice received grants[8][9] from the State Department in 2014. Given the public statements by a number of Obama administration officials, including the President, that it would be “inappropriate”[10] for the government of the United States to exercise any influence over elections in a foreign country including Israel, we believe this issue demands your urgent attention. There appears to be a danger that U.S. taxpayer funds are being used to directly shape the outcome of the upcoming Israeli election--and specifically to campaign against Prime Minister Netanyahu--something all would agree would be highly inappropriate. We request a thorough investigation by the State Department’s Inspector General within the next 15 days that answers the following questions: 1. How much funding has the U.S. Government provided to OneVoice, PeaceWorks Network Foundation, and any connected initiatives, projects or subsidiaries? 2. Who approved providing such funds? 3. What is the oversight and accounting process for how these funds are being spent? 4. How often and on what dates has such funding been provided? 5. What were the specific reasons and terms for providing funds, and how are these funds specifically being spent? 6. Can the Department of State guarantee that none of these funds have been or will be used in the endeavor detailed above, namely the partnership with V15, or any similar effort to exert undue influence over the Israeli political process? 7. Was there any knowledge from the State Department or other U.S. government officials of the partnership with V15 prior to providing funds to OneVoice? 8. Does OneVoice’s work with V15 violate its 501(c)(3) status (or the status of the PeaceWorks Network Foundation) as a tax-exempt organization and should such status be revoked? Thank you for your prompt attention to this disturbing matter, and we look forward to your swift and detailed reply. Sincerely, Sen. Ted Cruz Rep. Lee Zeldin Member of Congress Member of Congress
01.28.2015	Washington, DC – On Tuesday, January 27, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C-NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, as well as the Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee and Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee, advocated at yesterday's hearing for passing increased sanctions on Iran now to go into effect if no deal is reached by June 30th. Congressman Zeldin is also co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus. You can watch Congressman Zeldin’s statements and questioning here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=63m_BcAz4qY&feature=youtu.be
01.27.2015	Washington, DC- Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C- NY-1), member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, announced today that he has been selected to serve as Vice Chairman of the Subcommittee on Aviation. This important subcommittee has jurisdiction over all aspects of civil aviation, including safety, infrastructure, labor, commerce, and international issues, including agencies such as the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Congressman Zeldin said, “Serving as a freshman in the New York State Senate in 2011 taught me how to leverage being a freshman in the majority to deliver results for my district. I have carried these lessons to Washington with me this month and have secured important committee, subcommittee and other leadership responsibilities so that I can be in the best possible position to advocate for my constituents. As Vice Chairman of the Subcommittee on Aviation, I have tried to position my office so that we can have an active role in the FAA reauthorization effort this year and can address the concerns of my district and our entire region. I do not take this responsibility lightly and will advocate strongly to ensure the voice of my constituents is heard and acted upon." Congressman Zeldin was also appointed to serve on two other important subcommittees: the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation and the Subcommittee on Railroad, Pipelines and Hazardous Materials. The Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation has jurisdiction over regulation of ocean shipping and the merchant marine, with the exception of national security matters, and the Coast Guard, which enforces United States’ laws on our country’s waters. This includes missions such as search and rescue, illegal drug and migrant interdiction, oil spill prevention and response, maritime safety and security, maintaining aids to navigation, icebreaking, and enforcement of U.S. fisheries and marine pollution laws. The Subcommittee on Railroad, Pipelines and Hazardous Materials has jurisdiction over the economic and safety regulation of railroads and the agencies that administer those regulations, including the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) and the Surface Transportation Board (STB). The U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) said, “Congressman Zeldin is a welcome addition to the Transportation Committee and three of our subcommittees. We have a number of important items on our agenda this Congress, and Congressman Zeldin’s perspective and input will benefit our work to help improve the infrastructure, economy, and competitiveness of his district and our nation.” “As a representative and advocate for my constituents on Long Island, serving on the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee will provide me an added ability to deliver victories for my district," said Congressman Zeldin. "The subcommittees I was appointed to have jurisdiction over many federal agencies that play a direct role in the issues we face here on Long Island, including the protection of our shoreline and fishing industry, our ongoing Superstorm Sandy recovery and the helicopter noise challenges and air traffic controller consolidation.”
01.27.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C- NY-1) today released the following statement on the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz: “Today, on the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz, Americans join with the international community to honor the millions of innocent lives that were senselessly lost during the Holocaust and pay tribute to the survivors, who continue to share their stories, ensuring we never forget the grave tragedy that took place, despite those who continue to deny it. The spread of hatred and anti-Semitism around the globe provides us with the opportunity to reflect on the past in hopes of preventing this type of evil from reoccurring, not only within the Jewish community, but for all races and religions.”
01.26.2015	RIVERHEAD, NY – On Monday, January 19, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C-NY-1) attended multiple Martin Luther King, Jr. Day celebrations across the East End of the First Congressional District. Congressman Zeldin joined the celebrations at the 30th Annual Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial Breakfast, sponsored by the First Baptist Church of Riverhead, the Martin Luther King Memorial Program at the Calvary Baptist Church in East Hampton and the Martin Luther King Memorial Program at the First Baptist Church of Bridgehampton. The Congressman is pictured above speaking at the First Baptist Church of Bridgehampton.
01.23.2015	Washington, DC- Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C- NY-1), member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, announced today that he was appointed to serve on two important subcommittees: the Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs and the Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity. The Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs has legislative, oversight, and investigative jurisdiction over compensation; including general and special pensions of all the wars of the United States. This subcommittee deals with disability compensation, the adjustments in the cost of living for veterans, as well as the protection of memorial services of veterans. The Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity has legislative, oversight, and investigative jurisdiction over education of veterans, employment, and training of veterans, vocational rehabilitation, veteran’s housing programs, readjustment of servicemembers to civilian life, and servicemembers' civil relief. This subcommittee deals with helping provide education and employment opportunities to veterans, as well as assisting organizations that aid veterans with the transition to civilian life. Congressman Zeldin has been a very vocal advocate for veterans causes throughout his time in public service. One of his proudest and most significant achievements in the New York State Senate was creating the PFC Joseph Dwyer Program, a Peer-to-Peer Veterans Support program for those suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI). He also wrote the law that protects families from protests at military burials. “It is critically important that our veterans receive the opportunities they deserve to live a most fulfilling life following their military service," said Congressman Zeldin. "Much more can be done to improve the quality of life for our veterans and I plan to focus my time on these two subcommittees fighting to achieve this necessary goal. I'm looking forward to working on these two subcommittees to improve our nation’s veteran’s care, from disability claims, to memorial services, to education and training, and much more.” Suffolk County has the highest veteran population in New York State and the second highest in the nation.
01.22.2015	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, January 21, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C-NY-1), member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, participated in his first committee hearing as Congressman. The hearing focused on the clearly broken VA construction process where there has consistently been years of incessant delays and cost increases to major VA construction projects across the country. Yesterday's Veterans Affairs Committee hearing was focused most specifically on the VA Hospital being built in Denver, Colorado, which is currently $500 million over budget. You can watch the questioning here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d08TM_ZFZ5o
01.22.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R,C- NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, just released the following statement regarding the announcement that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu will be addressing Congress on February 11, 2015: “I look forward to welcoming Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to the United States Capitol next month. Speaker Boehner’s invitation to the Prime Minister serves as a reminder that the American people remain strongly committed to our nation's greatest ally, Israel. From radical Islamic extremism to rogue nations dangerously pursuing nuclear capability, threats abound for America and our allies all over the globe, especially the Middle East, I look forward to hearing the Prime Minister address Congress on his country's goal of strengthening the alliance between our two nations.” As a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Zeldin will also serve on two important subcommittees: the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa and the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade.
01.21.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C-NY-1) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s 7th State of the Union address: “Tonight, during President Obama’s 7th State of the Union, he stood before America to share his priorities for 2015. This was my first State of the Union Address. One would hope that a freshman member of Congress would be able to walk away from this moment encouraged and inspired by the great opportunity to chart a better path forward for America with the Executive and Legislature committed to seeking common ground on issues related to our economy, foreign policy, health care, energy policy, quality of education and other priorities. I’m entirely unconvinced that this President has dedicated himself towards uniting a nation deeply divided by partisan division, racial tension, and security threats. I believe there is a time for government and a time for politics. For example, it’s probably not the best idea to try to pass a budget the week before an election. But this isn’t election time and I reject the practice of too many in Washington that the only version of compromise is getting 100% of your way all of the time. That’s not how Washington should or could ever work in reality. President Obama's speech seems to aspire to achieve aggravated class warfare. More taxes for some. Less taxes for others. More government for all. He gets one right, but not the other two. I am very deeply concerned that the President’s economic plan does nothing to help create more good paying private sector jobs for my constituents on Long Island. The President touted economic growth and recovery; and yes our economy is showing some signs of improvement after years of stagnancy, but we are still faced with a growing debt and unsustainable deficits. The President stood before Congress tonight asking for higher taxes on our hardworking job creators in order to pay for more spending and redistributed wealth. Success is something to celebrate, not penalize. The President’s plan to solve our government’s tax and spend problem is to continue to tax and spend. There must be a better way. We now have a national debt of over 18 trillion dollars and rising every day. We have a duty not just to assist our constituents today, but also to make good public policy that looks out for our children who aren’t old enough to vote, because it is terribly unfair that they are going to be saddled with mountains of fiscal obligations that they had no ability to avoid inheriting. Washington should be focusing on growing our economy from the bottom up, not the top down from DC, in a market free of more taxes and regulations. When is enough enough? At what tax rate does the President believe that there is a negative effect on behavior for businesses deciding whether to grow new jobs, stay in America, and invest in our communities? Though I may have different ideas on the best path for moving our nation forward, I am convinced that if the culture in DC changed so that the Executive and Legislature committed to work together to enact sound public policy that we can pass annual budgets again. It is Congress that has the power of the purse. We can structurally reform our nation’s finances so that the national debt stops skyrocketing. We can repeal onerous regulations, simplify our complex tax code and reduce the cost to do business so that the small business owner who is forgoing his own pay to take care of his or her employees can again take some pay for himself or herself as well. Reward success. Celebrate it. Everyone should pay their fair share, but we don’t need class warfare in order to give those struggling to get by the tools they need to rise out of poverty…to rise out of a low income lifestyle to truly achieve the American Dream. The President should realize that if he truly wants to help lift Americans out of poverty his greatest allies are those Americans with the means to create economic opportunities. He should embrace that. We are a great nation with great Americans on both sides of the aisle with the compassion to achieve progress. We just have a different philosophy on how to get there and that’s ok. Let’s work together. End the dysfunction. Accept that each of us won’t be able to get it 100% of our way all of the time. Through healthy dialogue we should aggressively search for common ground. I sadly believe I don’t have a partner in this President. The one percenters we all should be most concerned about are the ones who disagree with me and they consist of some from every income level. My message to the President and my colleagues in Congress is that there is a time for government and a time for politics. Right now is a time to govern responsibly. That requires this President to take a break from his all politics all the time approach. President Bill Clinton knew how to cut the deal. Presidents Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush knew how to cut the deal. Let’s pursue less taxes, without trying to aggravate class warfare. There is a better way to simplify our tax code and improve our economy. The President should take a breath, put down his sword and unite us, not divide us. That would be a job well done.
01.19.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C-NY-1) issued the following statement this morning to commemorate Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: “Today, as a united nation, we honor Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and celebrate his dream and lasting legacy. Over 50 years ago, Americans gathered on Capitol Hill to hear Dr. King deliver one of the most powerful and recognizable speeches in our nation’s history. Dr. King shared his dream for a world of equality and opportunity; a world where one would be defined by their character, rather than the color of their skin. He dedicated his life to peacefully fighting social injustice and spreading the message of love and respect for fellow humans. His message remains as relevant today as it did a half a century ago. We are reminded that as a nation we must always strive to rid America of prejudice and injustice. His final speech was called ‘I’ve been to the Mountaintop.’ The greatness of Dr. King is that he took all of us with him demonstrating leadership in its finest form.”
01.18.2015	Holbrook, NY – On Saturday, January 17, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C-NY-1) joined with Col. Steve Perta, to present awards, including those pictured above, to Long Island Group Civil Air Patrol Officers and Cadets. The awards were part of a Military Ball held at Villa Lombardi's in Holbrook.
01.18.2015	Shelter Island, NY – On January 17, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C-NY-1) met with Shelter Island Supervisor James Dougherty and Shelter Island Highway Superintendent Jay L. Card, Jr. at Shelter Island Town Hall where they discussed several issues ranging from Lyme Disease to helicopter noise. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above with Supervisor Dougherty.
01.18.2015	Southold, NY- On January 17, 2015, at Brecknock Hall in Greenport, Congressman Zeldin presented a Certificate of Congressional Recognition to the Town of Southold in honor of the town's 375th Anniversary. This was Congressman Zeldin’s first public speaking event in district since being recently sworn in. Brecknock Hall was once the summer home of William Floyd’s son. William Floyd was one of four New Yorkers to sign the Declaration of Independence and was also the first Congressman from the First Congressional District. Congressman Zeldin happens to be a graduate of William Floyd High School in Mastic Beach.
01.17.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C-NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus, issued the following statement today following President Obama’s threat to veto bipartisan legislation to impose sanctions on Iran: “I strongly disagree with the President's continuing effort to win over the Iranian government through acts of kindness. It's a strategy divorced from the reality that the Iranians do not respect weakness, only strength. When you announce a deal and the Iranian government immediately refutes the terms of that 'agreement' than there was no deal in the first place. The President is getting played by the Iranians, which means our entire nation is getting played. The Iranian government has made the strategic decision to continue to pursue nuclear capability and by engaging in talks with the President and his administration, are reaping billions of dollars in economic benefits by securing itself relief from sanctions. We should not be so naive and we shouldn't be removing sanctions. We should actually be increasing sanctions. President Obama has already threatened to veto a plan from Congress to issue sanctions on Iran, despite bipartisan support for such a proposal. Providing Iran with relief from sanctions is a serious mistake and I strongly urge the President to reconsider. Iran poses a serious national security threat to America, Israel, and many of our allies. I will continue to stand strong on the passage of these sanctions, fighting in Congress to secure America's interests abroad." This week, Congressman Zeldin was appointed to serve on two important House Foreign Affairs subcommittees: the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa and the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade.
01.16.2015	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C-NY-1) today announced the opening of his district and D.C. offices. His primary District Office will be located in Patchogue, NY. Contact information for the offices are listed below: Patchogue Office: Washington, DC Office 31 Oak Street, Suite 20 1517 Longworth House Office Building Patchogue, NY 11772 Washington, DC 20515 Phone: (631) 289-1097 Phone: (202) 225-3826 Fax: (631) 289-1268 Fax: (202) 225-3143 Congressman Zeldin has also launched his official House website, Facebook account and Twitter feed, where he will provide updates from Congress. You can access these pages through the following links: Official House Website: zeldin.house.gov Official Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RepLeeZeldin Official Twitter: @RepLeeZeldin
01.16.2015	Patchogue, NY- On Friday, January 16, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C- NY-1) announced that he has selected Brookhaven Town Supervisor Ed Romaine to be his guest at the President’s State of the Union address this upcoming Tuesday, January 20. Congressman Zeldin said, “It is an honor to invite Brookhaven Town Supervisor Ed Romaine as my guest for the 2015 State of the Union Address. Supervisor Romaine, a former teacher, Suffolk County Legislator and Suffolk County Clerk, has dedicated his entire life towards bettering our community. With a population of over 486,000 residents as of the last census, Brookhaven is the second largest town in New York State. Brookhaven is one of eight great towns I am privileged to represent in New York’s First Congressional District.” "I am honored to be invited as Congressman Zeldin's guest at the President's State of the Union Address," said Brookhaven Town Supervisor Ed Romaine. "As a State Senator, Lee was a great advocate for the residents of Brookhaven Town and I am confident that we will continue to build on our strong partnership while he is in Washington. There are many issues on the Federal level that we face today, including a fragile shoreline and barrier beach erosion. Now, with Lee at the helm, we have a leader in Congress who will get things done."
01.15.2015	Washington, DC- Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C- NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs’ Committee, announced today that he was appointed to serve on two important subcommittees: the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa and the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. The Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa has jurisdiction over U.S. involvement within the Middle East and North Africa, including but not limited to, identification and development of options for meeting future problems and issues, oversight of foreign assistance activities affecting the region, matters affecting political relations, human rights practices, regional activities of the United Nations and many more. The Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade has jurisdiction over U.S. efforts to manage and coordinate international programs to combat terrorism and efforts to bring international terrorists to justice, including oversight of nonproliferation matters involving nuclear, chemical, biological and other weapons of mass destruction, sanction laws pertaining to individual countries, international economic and trade policy, commerce with foreign countries, in addition to many other matters. With over 11 years of military service, Congressman Zeldin will bring his unique insight and firsthand experience to best serve these subcommittees. "We must be vigilant now more than ever with the growing instability and rise of terrorism, not only in the Middle East, but across the globe," stated Congressman Zeldin, who also co-chairs the House Republican Israel Caucus. "I look forward to serving on these important subcommittees to focus on the very serious threats that exist to our national security and those of our allies."
01.14.2015	Washington, DC- On Wednesday, January 14, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C- NY-1) voted for the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act (H.R. 240), which would fund the Department for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2015. Congressman Zeldin also voted for several amendments, which includes defunding the President’s executive amnesty order. This legislation would provide $39.7 billion in discretionary funding for the Department of Homeland Security, which is an increase of $400 million from last year. “The funding in this bill will help protect our nation through vital security and enforcement efforts,” said Congressman Zeldin. “This appropriation will help secure our borders and protect us against foreign threats, such as terrorism.” The bill provides the largest amount of operation-force levels in the history of Customs and Border Protection (CBP). This includes 21,370 Border Patrol agents and 23,775 CBP officers, as well as several critical border security initiatives, such as around-the-clock surveillance of air, land, and sea approaches to the border. An amendment to this bill defunds the President’s unconstitutional executive amnesty, which he signed off on last month without Congressional approval. Congressman Zeldin released the following statement today with regards to immigration: “I strongly support legal immigration. We live in a great nation of immigrants. I also have great respect for the office of President of the United States. He is the highest ranking executive in our nation, and arguably, the most powerful person in the world. One thing the President is not is also the legislature. In Federalist #47, President James Madison stated, ‘The magistrate in whom the whole executive power resides cannot of himself make a law’. The Federalist Papers are often referenced when determining the intent of our founding fathers when they were drafting our Constitution. Madison referenced Montesquieu in Federalist #47 as it was he who wrote historically significant political doctrine with regards to separation of powers and the need for a constitutional government with three separate branches of government with checks and balances. Our Constitution itself is clear that the President of the United States is not also Congress, nor should he ever attempt to act as both. During this term, I am confident that the House of Representatives will pass legislation that will strengthen our immigration system. It is our duty to do so and I know that many of my new colleagues are up to the task.”
01.12.2015	Washington, DC- On Monday, January 12, 2015, Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C-NY-1), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, joined with Chairman Royce and other members of the committee to sign the book of condolence in respect for the recent tragedies in France. Congressman Zeldin is pictured above signing the book, after offering his condolences to Ambassador Araud. Pictured behind him, from left to right, are Chairman Ed Royce, Ambassador of France Gérard Araud and Ranking Member Elliot Engel. The House Foreign Affairs Committee hosted this event.
01.12.2015	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C- NY 1) was sworn in to office on Tuesday, January 6, 2015. During his first few days in office, Congressman Zeldin took to the House floor and voted in favor of several key pieces of legislation, including the Hire More Heroes Act, the Save the American Workers Act and the Keystone XL Pipeline. Congressman Zeldin, member of the House Veterans’ Affairs committee, co-sponsored and voted in favor of the Hire More Heroes Act (H.R. 22), which passed unanimously in the House this past Tuesday. The Hire More Heroes Act allows employers to exclude veterans who already receive health insurance through the Department of Defense or the Department of Veterans Affairs from the employer mandate, a key provision of Obamacare, which requires all businesses with more than 50 employees to provide health insurance to any full time worker. Under current law, veterans who already receive health insurance through the Department of Defense or the Department of Veterans Affairs are still counted towards the employer mandate. The Hire More Heroes Act would allow those veterans to be excluded from this count. This would incentivize businesses to hire more veterans and would provide businesses with much-needed relief from Obamacare. Congressman Zeldin, an Army veteran who currently serves as a Major in the Army Reserves said, “I’m proud to support and sponsor legislation that protects our veterans and helps them obtain jobs and financial security. This provision would encourage small businesses to hire veterans, while providing employers with relief from burdensome requirements under Obamacare.” The Save the Americans Workers Act (H.R. 30), which passed 252-172 in the House this past Wednesday, would repeal and replace the 30-hour definition of a full time employee under Obamacare’s employer mandate with a 40-hour definition. “The employer mandate has had a disastrous effect on employers and employees across the country,” continued Congressman Zeldin. “The 30-hour definition of a full time employee is enabling too many employers to keep their employees under that 30-hour mark, in order to avoid the strain on their business of paying the high cost of health insurance for their employees. This in turn hurts employees and job seekers. Changing the 30 hour work week to a 40 hour work week is a commonsense way to improve our business climate.” Legislation supporting the Keystone XL Pipeline passed in the House this past Thursday by 266-153. This legislation would approve the TransCanada’s application to construct, connect, operate and maintain the Keystone Pipeline, an oil pipeline which would run between Canada and the United States. The Keystone Pipeline will be one of the safest and most technologically advanced pipelines in North America. According to the State Department, the Keystone Pipeline project would create over 40,000 jobs. Congressman Zeldin, member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, voted in favor of this project to improve our nation’s infrastructure, job opportunities and energy independence. “The Keystone Pipeline will create jobs and give our stagnant economy a boost it needs,” Congressman Zeldin stated. “The pipeline will also increase supplies of Canadian and American crude oil, further strengthening our economy, while helping secure our energy resources.” After his first week in Washington, Congressman Zeldin is looking forward to a successful term in office, helping to grow our economy and create good paying private sector jobs, strengthen our nation's foreign affairs and veteran affairs, and improve our nation's immigration, health care and education policies."
01.12.2015	Washington, DC- Congressman Lee Zeldin (R, C-NY), recently nominated to serve on, released today the following statement in response to the terror attacks in France: “The senseless killings and acts of violence by terrorists over the past few days in Paris, France must be met with strong condemnation and effective resistance. Americans join with our allies across the world and stand together to condemn these brutal and savage tactics. These acts of terror are clear reminders that free countries across the world are targeted daily by extremists who oppose freedom; they oppose the basic freedoms we are intrinsically guaranteed. Attacks of this nature must remind us to redouble our efforts pursuing our shared goal of many nations across the world to eliminate groups who pose these threats. As a united force, we will continue to fight against those who threaten our freedoms and liberties."
01.06.2015	U.S. Representative Lee Zeldin was sworn in as a Member of the United States House of Representatives by House Speaker John Boehner on January 6th, 2015. The Honorable Lee Zeldin was elected to serve as representative of New York’s 1st Congressional District. Representative Lee Zeldin was added to the rolls of the House upon executing the oath of office.
01.06.2015	A photo of the 114th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
