10.29.2018	The senseless killing in a synagogue on Saturday represents both an unimaginable tragedy and unfathomable loss of life. Two days have only reinforced the pain we feel as a nation. But it is also something else: a reminder that virulent anti-Semitism—one of history’s oldest hatreds—is still with us. We must not look away. This is when we must come together in grief, join in resolve, and ensure that we comfort and support our fellow citizens in their time of sadness. They deserve nothing less. We must continue to keep the victims and their families in our thoughts, pray for their comfort, and let them know we are with them. ###
10.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet, released the following statement on the confirmation of Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court. "The swearing in this evening of Justice Brett Kavanaugh brings a just and honorable end to a terribly distressing confirmation process that repeatedly threatened to upend the most vital standards of fundamental fairness. That it did not succeed will restore at least some confidence that the system can work as intended, and that the American experiment has once again proved as durable as ever. "What should never be forgotten, however, is the damage that has been done. This was supposed to be a fair and reasoned review of a nominee’s record on the bench, understanding of the Constitution, and vision of the role of the federal judiciary. It was instead a carefully coordinated political attack that was plotted in secret, coordinated among Senators and staff, and intended to destroy a good man. This did, indeed, replace the doctrine of advice and consent with a mission to search and destroy. "It is my full expectation that as an Associate Justice, Brett Kavanaugh will display the same careful consideration for the facts, adherence to the law as written, and impartial and independent judicial temperament that has marked his entire judicial career. I further trust that he will be able to look past the terrible way he and his family were treated by powerful interests in Washington, keep faith that he persevered through it all, and serve with honor and distinction for many years to come. "Congratulations, Justice Kavanaugh." ###
08.30.2018	Senator John McCain was a patriot, statesman, fighter and someone I was honored to call a friend. From our travels to U.S. military bases - to quiet moments in the Senate barber shop - I will forever remember his enduring passion for our great country. My heart and prayers are will his family.
07.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet, released the following statement on the nomination of Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court."Brett Kavanaugh is an exemplary choice for the United States Supreme Court. He has shown unwavering support in defending the Constitution, our nation’s founding principles, and the rule of law. A renowned writer and thinker, Kavanaugh studies the law as originally intended, decides difficult cases impartially, and understands the Federal Government is a creature of the Constitution – and nothing else.I am more than confident President Trump chose the right person to replace Justice Kennedy. I look forward to Kavanaugh’s service to our country for years to come. I call on my colleagues in the Senate to confirm him as expeditiously as possible. " ###
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- It’s nearly impossible to pass any immigration bill when one party categorically refuses to come to the table to talk. Yesterday, Democrats rejected a Presidential fix. Today, they rejected a permanent legislative one. At this stage House Democrats appear to be more committed to political grandstanding than they are to advancing meaningful, permanent solutions for our badly broken immigration system. All parties agree the time to act is now, which is why I urge my colleagues to join us in crafting a solution that will address immediate needs and provide long-term solutions to our border security and legal immigration system. The House should remain in Washington until we get this urgent work done. ###
06.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Darrell Issa issued the following statement reacting to today’s report from the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) Inspector General: “Today’s report from the Department of Justice’s Inspector General sheds new light on the cumulative bias at some of the highest levels of the FBI during the lead-up to the 2016 election. Time after time, high-ranking FBI officials put politics before country and usurped their leadership responsibilities to protect themselves and their political allies. The report shows how the FBI became infected with politics and continuously disregarded rules and procedures to the detriment of Donald Trump and benefit of Hillary Clinton. Furthermore, contrary to reports from the Clinton campaign and the Obama DOJ, we now know that Clinton’s negligent e-mail security practices resulted in foreign actors attempting to breach high level information. Most troublingly, Inspector General Michael Horowitz found text messages between FBI personnel that clearly demonstrate a strong prejudice against then-candidate Donald Trump. In one particular exchange, an FBI agent called Trump “a menace.” The same agent proclaimed the FBI would need to take out an “insurance policy” in case Trump was elected. A different FBI agent responded to the prospect of a Trump presidency by proclaiming, “We’ll stop it.” For the sake of the Republic, thank God they failed. President Trump was absolutely correct in terminating James Comey for the incompetence, arrogance, and insubordination he consistently displayed in his role as Director of the FBI. If we are to restore faith in the FBI as an institution, we must clean house to reestablish the American people’s confidence in the Bureau.” ###
05.16.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa issued the following statement applauding President Donald Trump’s recently-signed Executive Order that will elevate the role of federal agency Chief Information Officers (CIOs): “The President’s leadership to address this shortfall in reforming government IT is a welcome step to a more efficient and transparent government and, as we intended with the Federal Information Technology Acquisition Act (FITARA), will ultimately reduce the costs of outdated IT practices that are put upon the American taxpayers. Through this Executive Order, this Administration is pushing the implementation of provisions of FITARA, which was signed into law in 2014 but not fully implemented by the previous administration,” said Issa. “One of our primary goals with FITARA was to strengthen the role of federal agencies’ CIOs, in order to give them greater visibility into agency IT spending. Despite the law, the authority of CIOs at many agencies unfortunately continues to trail other areas of government IT improvement and that’s why this EO speaks to this Administration’s commitment to the law and good technology decision making.” The Executive Order will expand the authority of agency CIOs by requiring that they report directly to the head of their federal agency. Additionally, it will enable CIOs to become voting members of bureau-level IT Governance Boards, with the goal of increasing their influence in hiring decisions and enterprise awareness. The Executive Order was issued on May 15, 2018. Congressman Issa’s FITARA Act, H.R. 1163, was signed into law on December 18, 2014.
05.10.2018	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation regarding the storage of spent nuclear fuel: “Today’s bipartisan House passage of the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act is an important step forward in moving nuclear waste out of local communities,” said Issa. “The federal government must keep its commitment to safely dispose of nuclear waste and this proposal will put us back on track to advance to a long-term permanent site as well as more immediate interim options.” While not addressing all concerns related to nuclear waste, the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act of 2018 (H.R. 3053) includes key provisions that would provide a way for waste from the San Onofre Nuclear Generation Station (SONGS) to be moved out of the North San Diego County community. Under a bipartisan compromise added to the legislation, the long-awaited permanent nuclear storage facility at Yucca Mountain could move forward and the Department of Energy would be authorized to open a temporary, interim site where nuclear waste from shuttered facilities – like SONGS – could be moved to and safely stored while the construction of the Yucca repository is completed. BACKGROUND: Spent nuclear fuel currently sits idle in 121 communities across 39 states because the country lacks a permanent geologic repository. California ratepayers have already paid over $2 billion toward the Department of Energy’s Nuclear Waste Fund to permanently dispose of spent nuclear fuel at the Yucca Mountain repository. This is the sixth most of any state in the country. The total Fund maintains over $40 billion from ratepayers across the country. For years, Congressman Issa has been championing common-sense solutions for our nation’s nuclear waste storage, including his legislation the Interim Consolidated Storage Act (H.R. 474) which would authorize interim nuclear storage sites, similar to those included in the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act of 2018. The legislation passed today: Assists in the resolution of the pending Yucca Mountain license; Directs DOE to move forward with a temporary storage program to consolidate spent nuclear fuel from sites – prioritizing shuttered places like SONGS – while working on the Yucca Mountain repository; Protects our national security priorities by ensuring DOE upholds its responsibility to take ownership of spent fuel and for transportation to a storage facility; Reforms a broken financing mechanism to protect ratepayers and assure DOE has adequate funding to construct and operate a multi-generational infrastructure project; Provides Nevada and local stakeholders the opportunity to beneficially engage with the Federal government as the host State for the repository; and, Strengthens DOE’s program management and organization to more effectively implement its nuclear waste program. Interim storage is supported by local governments and leaders as an important part of getting the nuclear material from San Onofre moved out of our community. Local groups including the City of Encinitas, the San Diego County Board of Supervisors, the Orange County Board of Supervisors, the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce, and the Mayors of Oceanside, Huntington Beach, Laguna Beach, San Clemente and Seal Beach through the Concerned Coastal Communities Coalition and the Angeles Chapter of the Sierra Club, have expressed their support for solutions.
05.08.2018	Following today’s announcement by President Trump on the nuclear deal with Iran, Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement: “I applaud President Trump’s bold leadership putting Iran, and its regional proxies, on notice and demanding that they permanently abandon any ambition to develop nuclear weapons. The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action negotiated under the previous administration was an irresponsible agreement that put our people at risk, left our most important allies in the Middle East in jeopardy, and did not achieve a single stated foreign policy objective of the United States. As I said in 2015: No nation has ever abandoned its nuclear ambitions without first agreeing to actually abandon its nuclear ambitions. Absent any commitment by the Iranian regime to permanently abandon its goal to develop nuclear weapons and a robust ‘anywhere, anytime’ inspections regime, the JCPOA was not worth the paper it was written on.”
04.17.2018	Today, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement: “I am deeply saddened to hear of the passing of Barbara Bush, one of our nation's most distinguished First Ladies. Mrs. Bush left an unassailable legacy of public service. She will be remembered for her steadfast support of her husband George H. W. Bush. When the two were married in 1945 one of the greatest partnerships in American history was formed. The late Mrs. Bush was instrumental in her husband's successes as a Congressman, Vice-President, and President of the United States, and an inspirational figure in her own right. Her wit and good counsel will be celebrated and remembered for many years to come. My prayers are with her husband and the entire Bush family tonight.”
04.17.2018	Today, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) responded to California’s decision to reject the federal government’s proposed deployment of National Guard troops to the southern border. "While extremely disappointing, it’s not surprising that the Governor has rejected requests to support federal immigration enforcement. This comes on the heels of dangerous sanctuary laws that prevent immigration enforcement within the state, and vocal opposition to improved physical barriers at the border. In contrast, the President continues to make good on his commitment to protect our nation and improve the tools available to our Border Patrol. I call on Governor Brown to join the other border state governors in listening to the needs of our border agents rather than the wishes of open-border extremists."
04.13.2018	Tonight, Congressman Issa (CA-49) issued the following statement backing President Trump's decision to conduct limited strikes against Syrian chemical weapons assets, stating: "In response to recent Assad chemical attacks on innocent men, women and children, President Trump, along with our British and French allies, has sent an unequivocal message that wanton disregard for human lives and the violation of international law will face swift, detrimental retaliation."
04.11.2018	Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement regarding Speaker Paul Ryan’s (R-WI) announcement that he will retire from the House at the end of the 115th Congress: “I appreciate Speaker Ryan’s leadership as Speaker of the House and his service to our country as a member from the great state of Wisconsin. As Chairman of the Budget Committee he passionately advocated for limited government and entitlement adjustments to preserve the programs for decades forward. As Speaker, Paul has shown us how dedication to country and family can go hand in hand.”
04.06.2018	Today, Congressman Darrell Issa praised Mayor Sam Abed and the City of Escondido, as it became the first city in San Diego County to publicly support the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) lawsuit challenging California’s sanctuary state laws. “If Governor Brown, Attorney General Becerra, and other state leaders in California are going to blatantly disregard the law, California cities, counties, and communities have no other choice than to speak out against them and I applaud those that have done so,” said Congressman Issa, who represents both San Diego and Orange Counties. “With DOJ’s lawsuit, the Trump Administration is sending a clear message to California and signaling to other states that prioritizing political points over protecting public safety will not be tolerated.” In a vote this week, Mayor Sam Abed and the Escondido City Council decided to file a legal brief supporting DOJ’s position in its lawsuit against California. Escondido now joins a number of cities in Orange County, as well as the Orange County Board of Supervisors, that have taken similar votes in the past weeks. These actions by local communities are the latest following the enactment of sanctuary state laws, which passed the California Legislature last year, with the support of Governor Jerry Brown and the state’s attorney general. These laws prevent state and local law enforcement from cooperating with federal immigration officials. Last month, U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions filed a lawsuit against California, alleging that the state’s new laws were in violation of the constitution. ###
03.20.2018	Over the weekend, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) appeared on “Justice with Judge Jeanine” on Fox News to discuss national topics including the firing of former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe. “Under the last Administration whether it was Benghazi, or Fast and Furious, the IRS targeting of conservatives, nobody was held accountable, everybody got to retire or even stay on the job. This is the really the first time the American people are seeing at least some responsibility for somebody who clearly misled, didn’t do his job, and then changed his story when Administrations changed.” Click here to watch,
03.14.2018	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives today voted to pass legislation he wrote to protect taxpayers in court against the IRS. His bill -- the Protecting Access to Courts for Taxpayers Act (H.R. 3996) – ensures taxpayers do not automatically lose their cases against the IRS, or miss tax courts’ strict filing deadlines, in the event they were to accidentally file their suit in the wrong venue. It would allow judges, who are hamstrung under current law, to move these cases to the right court, as judges can ordinarily do with other cases. “Taxpayers who make a simple clerical mistake in filing their cases shouldn’t lose their ability to have their day in court,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “Yet current law gives our judges no ability to move these cases to the correct court, as they can with almost any other matter. Given tax courts’ tight filing deadlines, accidentally filing in the wrong venue can be detrimental to the outcome in their cases. This is a simple update, but one that will go a long way to helping taxpayers better obtain justice.” For most cases that do not involve the IRS, if it is accidentally filed in the wrong court, the initial judge will simply transfer the case to the correct venue at no penalty, financial or otherwise, to the litigant. Due to an omission in current law, there is no existing authority for a federal district court judge to transfer a case to the Tax Court. As a result, district court judges currently have no choice but to dismiss incorrectly filed cases and therefore require the citizen to refile the case at additional expense. Most importantly, however, filing deadlines to dispute IRS actions are often as short as 30 to 90 days. So if a case is incorrectly filed, it often becomes virtually impossible for the error to be discovered and allow the taxpayer the time to refile in the appropriate court before the deadline has passed. Giving judges the ability to simply transfer these cases as they can with other courts to tax court would alleviate this problem.Text of the legislation is available here
03.07.2018	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement in response to the Trump Administration’s decision to sue the State of California over sanctuary laws for illegal immigrants: “The Trump Administration showed true leadership in its decision to take on our state's reckless sanctuary laws. For too long, states like California have been willfully complicit in obstructing the enforcement of our immigration laws. The era of allowing our states to turn a blind eye to federal law and allow illegal immigrants who have committed crimes to remain in our communities is now coming to an end. Governor Brown and the State of California won’t fight to keep our neighborhoods safe, but I’m glad this Administration will.” ###
02.21.2018	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement on the death of Billy Graham: “I’m saddened to hear of the passing of the great Reverend Billy Graham. Our nation has been immensely blessed by his life and ministry, which inspired hope and brought a message of grace to millions around the world. An extraordinary man of faith, he left an unmistakable legacy that helped shape our nation for the better. His contribution as counselor to many of our nation’s Presidents and country’s great leaders will forever be remembered. He will be missed greatly.”
01.31.2018	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement in response to the President's State of the Union Address last night: "America's comeback has finally arrived. Families are seeing more in their paychecks, as once-stagnant wages are now beginning to rise. ISIS is in retreat. Jobs and investment are flowing back into our country. American workers and small-businesses have regained confidence. The American economy is roaring, and the future of our nation is now, in many ways, looking brighter than ever. The President is right: this is our new American moment. And lawmakers Republican and Democrat alike must come together and seize it. It's my hope the Democrats will move past blind 'resistance' and join us as we continue working to fix our broken immigration system, rebuild our military, bolster our workforce and invest in the programs we need to put Americans first."
01.25.2018	Today, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) introduced legislation to provide a fix for undocumented immigrants brought here as children by their parents. The DACA Compromise Act (H.R. 4873) makes visas available to DACA participants who have been vetted by the Department of Homeland Security by pulling a limited number of slots from existing visa categories and making the reallocated visas, instead, available to Dreamers on a rolling basis until the eligible DACA queue has been cleared. The legislation is modeled after the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act of 1997 ("NACARA"), bipartisan legislation signed into law by President Clinton that allowed a path to citizenship for certain Nicaraguan, Cuban, Salvadoran, and Guatemalan refugees."Problems like these require innovative thinking and lawmakers from both sides of the aisle coming together, putting all of their ideas on the table, and figuring out the best way to get the job done. This is a simple, common-sense fix that will guarantee certainty for the children of illegal immigrants who were brought here through no fault of their own and know no home other than the United States. I hope this straight-forward proposal can serve as a reasonable compromise that will bring our parties together, give lasting assurance, and resolve this issue for the long-haul." - Congressman Darrell Issa A one-page summary of the bill can be read here. The bill text is available here.
01.10.2018	This morning, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement:"Two decades ago, when I stepped away from the business I'd built to enter public service, I never could have imagined that a long-shot bid for U.S. Senate would lead to 18 years in the House of Representatives and endless opportunities to make a meaningful impact.From the first successful recall of a sitting Governor in California history, to establishing new and stronger standards for government accountability, to protecting the Internet from harmful regulation, and enacting the nation's first open data standards, we attempted and achieved much in the service of our nation.Together, we put an end to abusive Congressional earmarks, strengthened the Violence Against Women Act, empowered better oversight of the executive branch, and cleared the course for better intellectual property protections to stop the piracy of American ingenuity.Throughout my service, I worked hard and never lost sight of the people our government is supposed to serve. Yet with the support of my family, I have decided that I will not seek re-election in California's 49th District.I am forever grateful to the people of San Diego, Orange and Riverside counties for their support and affording me the honor of serving them all these years. Most humbling for me -- and for anyone who represents this area -- has been the special privilege of representing the Marines and Sailors of Camp Pendleton and their families. On countless occasions, and in every corner of the world I met them, I was inspired by their bravery and humbled by their sacrifice to keep us all safe from harm.Representing you has been the privilege of a lifetime.While my service to California's 49th District will be coming to an end, I will continue advocating on behalf of the causes that are most important to me, advancing public policy where I believe I can make a true and lasting difference, and continuing the fight to make our incredible nation an even better place to call home." ###
01.04.2018	VISTA, Calif. -- Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista), a member of the House Climate Solutions Caucus, released the following statement in response to the Department of the Interior's oil drilling plan:"It’s not the time to reopen California’s shoreline to new drilling. Secretary Zinke has said that the ‘states and local communities’ will have a voice, but Californians have made themselves clear: they do not want new drilling off our coasts. I will work to ensure that voice is heard and that California’s coastal areas are taken out of consideration." ###​​​
01.04.2018	Issa's Bill "Deserves The Fast Track," Writes the Mercury News's Editorial Board Editorial: Modest H-1B visa overhaul is worthy of tech support Mercury News and Bay Times Editorial Boards January 4, 2018https://www.mercurynews.com/2018/01/04/editorial-modest-h-1b-visa-overhaul-is-worthy-of-tech-support/ A new bipartisan plan for reforming the H-1B visa program holds out modest hope that 2018 will be better than its predecessor for the tech industry [...] the bill by Rep. Darrell Issa, a California Republican, would make some welcome improvements. It will help level the playing field for tech firms, from startups to the likes of Apple and Google, which have an increasingly difficult time attracting skilled workers in a tight labor market. Issa’s legislation has passed the House Judiciary Committee. Congress should pass it quickly to avoid any political silliness in this congressional election year. The H-1B program is a temporary U.S. visa designed to allow companies to hire highly skilled foreign professionals in positions for which there is a shortage of qualified American workers. The program is critically important in places like the Bay Area. A 2017 report by the Silicon Valley Leadership Group revealed that an estimated 57 out of every 100 jobs in the region requiring a bachelor’s degree or more is filled by someone who was not born in the United States, including an estimated 25,000 H-1B holders. Unfortunately, some outsourcing companies hiring workers for jobs in the United States use loopholes in the law to snag thousands of the limited number of visas. They then hire foreign workers at lower pay, often at the expense of U.S. workers. In some outrageous cases, domestic workers have been forced to train their replacements. Tech companies hiring directly through H-1B visas also have abused the program. It’s shameful because without a thriving H-1B program, the U.S. risks losing future brilliant immigrant leaders like Tesla CEO Elon Musk, Google co-founder Sergey Brin and current Google CEO, Sundar Pichai, who all were born elsewhere. [...] Issa’s legislation, which Lofgren and the Leadership Group support, increases the minimum salary requirement for H1-B visas holders from $60,000 to $90,000 a year and directly forbids employers from replacing American workers with foreign workers. It also redefines an “H-1B dependent company” — those required to prove that they tried to hire domestic workers — in a way that Issa says will give smaller U.S.-based companies “a better chance to get the H-1B employee they want.” [...] any step in the right direction is promising. And these days, any bill with bipartisan support deserves the fast track. Read the Full Editorial Here
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives approved $81 billion in disaster relief, including aid for the victims of the wildfires in California this year. “I’m pleased that those in San Diego County affected by the recent Lilac Fire, and throughout California, will receive the help they need so that they can begin the process of restoring their lives and rebuilding all that was lost,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “The package approved today comes at just the right time and will provide much-needed resources to help our area recover. I thank Congressman Calvert for his leadership in getting this funding quickly approved and encourage its swift signing into law. I remain committed to ensuring everyone impacted gets the assistance they need as they recover from the destruction these fires have brought to our community.” Earlier this month, Congressman Issa joined all 53 members of the California House delegation to write asking the appropriations committee to include relief for victims of California’s wildfires in emergency disaster legislation and wrote to Members of the Conference Committee on the tax reform bill, urging its members to restore the deduction for wildfire losses to the final bill. ###
12.16.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement on the final tax reform bill released today by the Conference Committee to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: "While the bill agreed to in conference today makes some improvements, unfortunately, the changes do not go far enough to guarantee tax relief for constituents in my district. Californians need tax relief now more than ever, especially as the tax factory in our State Capitol continues looking for ever increasing ways to take more of our hard-earned paychecks. Yet I still fear that, even in the revised proposal, many in my area could face higher taxes under this plan. Californians have entrusted me to fight for them. I will not vote to make the incredible tax burden they already endure even worse." Congressman Issa has been leading the fight for California, earlier this week urging tax conferees to restore the full deductibility of the state and local income tax and to reverse changes to the deductions for victims of wildfires. Congressman Issa voted no on the tax bill when it first passed the House of Representatives, at the time, saying "I didn't come to Washington to raise taxes on my constituents and I do not plan to start today.” ###
12.15.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement after agreement was reached between the federal government and the Fallbrook Public Utilities District over water use rights for the Santa Margarita River. "After working to help negotiate a path forward on this important project for years, I am pleased the parties have reached an agreement that will facilitate access to a reliable, local source of water for generations to come," said Congressman Darrell Issa. In 2009, Congressman Issa introduced and helped sign into law legislation that authorized the construction of a shared water project allowing Camp Pendleton and Fallbrook to both use water from the Santa Margarita River. Under the agreement reached this week, water will be pumped from aquifers allowing both Camp Pendleton and Fallbrook to use the water resources available locally to meet their needs. No longer reliant on imported water, residents in the Fallbrook Public Utilities District may save $1 million annually. "I want to especially thank Darrell Issa for his hard work in getting this critical water supply project authorized within both houses of Congress, as well as making sure the funding for the Camp Pendleton side of the project got approved at every level," said Former Congressman Ron Packard, who previously represented the 49th District. For years, Congressman Issa has worked with the Fallbrook Public Utilities District and the federal government in order to resolve this long-standing conflict and bring it to resolution.
12.15.2017	Following the increasing issues cities have faced with sober living homes around the nation, the Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee joined Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) in writing to Secretary Ben Carson, urging the agency to look into regulatory changes that can be made to give municipalities better authority to oversee these facilities. In the last two Congresses, Darrell Issa has introduced sober living homes reform legislation through his Safe Recovery and Community Empowerment Act and has been the leading voice for reform on this important issue. The letter sent this week comes as part of a “dual-track” approach, pursuing changes at both a regulatory and legislative level to help solves the issues that have arisen from the unregulated proliferation of sober living homes in communities nationwide. A signed copy of their letter can be viewed here December 13, 2017 The Honorable Ben Carson Secretary U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) 451 7th Street S.W. Washington, DC 20410 Dear Secretary Carson: We write to bring your attention to the issue of sober living homes and how their proliferation is impacting communities throughout the country. Sober living homes are group homes for individuals recovering from drug and alcohol addiction. The purpose of these facilities is to help addicts who have completed addiction treatment to transition back to residential life in a community environment, so that they can begin to assimilate into the community. In recent years, the number of sober living homes has reportedly increased across the country, concentrating in certain cities and neighborhoods causing problems for sober home residents, neighbors, and local and state governments. The overconcentration of sober living homes is changing the character of residential communities and undermining the benefit of recovering addicts who are looking to live in a neighborhood community, rather than in an institutionalized environment, as these homes do not provide treatment. The rapid growth of this industry has also allowed predatory and unscrupulous operators to run facilities that fail to adequately serve their clients, harming those in recovery and often leading to further drug abuse, homelessness, and even death. This is especially troubling amid the current addiction crises our nation faces, such as the opioid epidemic. Individuals seeking safe housing for their recovery from opioid addiction are met with challenges to that recovery when they find themselves residing in sober living homes that are unregulated and threaten to further their addiction. State and local governments that have attempted to address this issue find that they are hamstrung by the current interpretation of federal law in this realm. The Americans with Disabilities Amendments Act (ADAA) and its accompanying regulations define "disability" to include alcoholism and drug addiction. The Fair Housing Amendments Act (FHAA) makes it unlawful for cities to pass and enforce housing laws on the basis of disability status, including addiction. Consequently, sober living home operators have been able to avoid state and local regulation of their properties and successfully fight regulations in court by hiding behind these federal laws. In this Congress, H.R. 472, the Safe Recovery and Community Empowerment Act, has been introduced to address this problem for states and localities by amending the FHAA to specifically allow any state and local government body to enact and enforce a zoning ordinance or other regulation to limit the number of sober living homes within a particular neighborhood. These limitations can be made as the local entity sees appropriate to preserve the residential character of their communities and protect public safety. While this legislation has been referred to the House Judiciary Committee, we respectfully request that HUD review these issues and consider a regulatory avenue in addressing this problem. Please let us know if it would be possible for HUD to develop a rule for notice and comment that would seek to achieve the goal of this legislation and allow localities to reasonably regulate the issues that have arisen from the unregulated proliferation of sober living homes in various communities across the country. We appreciate your prompt attention to this important issue. Sincerely, Chairman Bob Goodlatte Congressman Darrell Issa ###
12.12.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) today sent a letter to members of the Conference Committee on tax reform, urging them to restore the state and local tax deduction (SALT) and deductions for the victims of wildfires to the final bill. In his message, Congressman Issa also enclosed letters he received from local officials in his district asking him to keep SALT in place, given its importance to California taxpayers. A Signed Copy of the Letter Can Be Read Here December 12, 2017 Dear Leader McConnell, Speaker Ryan, Leader Schumer, Leader Pelosi and Conferees, I write to express serious concerns with the House and Senate passed tax reform proposals which, as written, could leave many constituents in my district facing significant tax increases. As the Conference Committee works toward a final package, I ask that changes be made to ensure that the final plan will bring relief for all of our nation’s taxpayers – California residents included. It’s been more than three decades since we’ve overhauled our tax code. We have a once-in-a-generation opportunity to deliver real reprieve from years of heavy-handed, misguided tax policy that has left millions paying more to their government and getting less in return. We must not squander this moment by passing a bill that does not allow all hard-working taxpayers to see relief. Done correctly, tax reform has the potential to restore America’s global competitiveness, generate widespread economic opportunity, unleash untold levels of job creation, and allow families to keep even more of their hard-earned paychecks. Done poorly, a tax bill would pick winners and losers, and unnecessarily punish some taxpayers to the benefit of others. As its written today, I fear the bill looks more like the latter than the former. Californians already endure some of the highest housing costs, the highest state sales taxes, the highest state income taxes, and the highest gas prices in the nation. They’ve been buried under the weight of high state tax and regulatory burdens which, together, have made it increasingly difficult to get ahead. Yes, the tax factory known as the California State Legislature is the root cause of the problem. But my constituents did not ask me – or any Republican for that matter – to vote to make their tax burden even worse. The House and Senate tax reform proposals do not guarantee relief for constituents in my district, and in fact, may result in a net increase in their financial liability to the federal government. Among the plan’s deficiencies is the elimination of the State and Local Tax Deduction (SALT) which since the advent of our federal income tax has prevented the double taxation of Americans’ income and allowed states to operate as laboratories of experiment as our founders intended. Eliminating this important deduction would be a mistake that would undo years of precedent that, in our federalist system, has said that the federal government may calculate its tax liability only after state and local taxes have first been deducted. Unlike other states – Wisconsin and Kentucky, for example – California is a donor state, meaning it gets back less from the federal government than it pays in. Without changes to this plan, taxpayers in my state will continue being asked to pay even more only to subsidize benefits for citizens elsewhere. Furthermore, as devastating wildfires continue to ravage our state, it would be unthinkable to do away with important and much-needed relief for constituents who’ve lost their homes, property and livelihoods. We must ensure that those who’ve already lost so much, won’t be left without the important relief they need to rebuild and restore their lives. I know Majority Leader McCarthy and others are working diligently to address this concern by the end of the year, but we must ensure disaster relief is not weakened through this tax bill. I implore the Conference Committee to include these proposals, as many of the cities I represent suggest in the enclosed letters. We have the opportunity to make the tax code work for all Americans. Now, let’s get the details right. Sincerely, Congressman Darrell Issa
12.08.2017	VISTA, Calif. -- Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement as the devastating Lilac wildfire continues to spread through the San Diego region: “My heart is heavy today from the destruction of the latest wildfires in our community. I pray for the safety of everyone in our area, for the families who’ve lost homes, property, and for the many more who’ve been forced to flee as this devastating fire continues to spread. My office and I have been in touch with local officials on the ground and have offered our support and the assurance that we will make whatever resources they need available as they work to save lives, contain the blaze and eventually rebuild and restore what was lost. I appreciate the swift response from all of our emergency responders and volunteers as well as the call for, and prompt approval of, a federal emergency declaration that will allow assets at all levels of government to be fully deployed. To all those in our area: safety is our first concern. Please continue heeding public safety warnings, keep an eye on the news, stay alert and evacuate if necessary. Any constituent who needs help should contact my office to see how we can be of assistance.” ###
11.20.2017	Californians deserve a tax cut tooThe Orange County Register By: Congressman Darrell Issahttp://bit.ly/2zTqblx Federal tax reform moved forward this past week in Washington. Good news for most of the country. Not so much for us here in California. Done right, it would have spurred economic growth, allowed Californians to keep more of their hard-earned paychecks, enabled Americans to better save for the future, and helped dig hard-working families out of the mountain of tax increases piled on them in recent years. Unfortunately, I fear that the plan as approved could actually make the incredible burden our state’s taxpayers feel even worse. I voted no because my constituents don’t deserve a tax increase. While the world thinks living is easy in the land of sand and sun, the Southern California families and small businesses I know are putting in long hours and making tough sacrifices to make each day work. Californians have stayed late, picked up second shifts and worked hard in an honest effort to make ends meet, only to find themselves with less and less to show for it. The tax plan approved this week would have made some good steps forward — simplifying the tax code, changing the corporate tax rate from the world’s highest to be more globally competitive, and bringing down the rates for individual taxpayers — but I worry that even under the reduced tax rates, many across our state could be forced to pay more, not less, and for me that is simply unacceptable. For taxpayers in our district, being able to deduct their state and local income taxes from their federal return is the first line of defense against the tax increase factory the Democrats have built in Sacramento. Democrats in our state Capitol have worked around the clock for years, churning out tax increases by the dozen on everything from gasoline, everyday purchases, paychecks — even plastic bags at the grocery store. Taken together, our state lawmakers have put Californians’ taxes at the top of the list — highest income taxes in the country, highest sales taxes nationwide and now, thanks to the latest 12-cent-a-gallon gas tax hike, the highest gas prices anywhere in the land. For Americans with leaders in their state Capitol less greedy than our own, eliminating the deduction makes little difference. But for us, eliminating the ability of Californians to deduct their hefty state and local taxes significantly compounds the substantial burdens already imposed on the taxpayers by our state. Even worse, eliminating the state and local tax deduction would assure that almost all of the bill’s tax cuts would be distributed to other states — leaving California with the bill. Hard-working Californians deserve to see a tax cut too. Some say the state and local tax deduction allows other states to subsidize Sacramento’s bad tax policy. I’d remind them that the numbers show it’s actually quite the opposite. For every dollar California taxpayers send to Washington, the state receives less than a dollar back. Put another way: It’s actually California taxpayers who already support spending for other states, even with the state and local tax deduction in place. Republicans are right as they work to reduce taxes, revitalize our economy, make America competitive on a global scale again and fix our broken tax code, but any plan must benefit all taxpayers — no matter where they live. Californians aren’t asking for a special handout, they just deserve their fair shake at the table. We can do better for California than the plan that was approved this past week. That’s why it didn’t earn my support. But the process of overhauling our tax code is far from complete. As the bill moves forward to the Senate, I will continue fighting for changes that will ensure this bill returns money to all of our nation’s taxpayers — Californians included. Tax reform remains imperative. Let’s get the details right and get this country moving again.http://www.ocregister.com/2017/11/17/californians-dont-deserve-a-tax-increase/
11.17.2017	* By participating in this survey, you'll be automatically subscribed to receive email updates on this topic. You may unsubscribe at any time and your answers will remain confidential.
11.16.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa released the following statement after voting no on the House Republican tax reform package which today was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives:"I didn't come to Washington to raise taxes on my constituents and I do not plan to start today," said Congressman Issa. "It's disappointing that the bill approved today will not provide the same tax relief to Californians as it does to the rest of the nation. California families are being crushed under the constant barrage of tax increases coming out of Sacramento's tax factory on everything from their everyday purchases, paychecks and yes even their gasoline. Constituents in my district have picked up extra shifts, stayed late, and worked hard only to see less and less of their take-home pay as taxes have skyrocketed across the state. My constituents deserve to see a tax cut too. Before reform reaches the President’s desk, I will continue fighting for changes to deliver tax relief for ALL taxpayers -- regardless of where they live." ###
11.15.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement after the House Judiciary Committee today approved legislation he introduced to curb abuse of the nation’s H-1B Visa system and stop the outsourcing of American jobs. His bill, the Protect and Grow American Jobs Act, closes loopholes used by outsourcing companies to undercut American workers with cheaper workers brought in under H-1B, as seen in recent high-profile cases (see here, here and here for examples) and highlighted in a recent 60 Minutes profile. By curtailing abuse, the reforms approved today ensure that employers seeking to recruit high-skilled workers through H-1B are not crowded out in the application process by outsourcers gaming the system. The changes ensure that the limited slots under H-1B will instead be available for their intended purpose: to help American companies recruit employees with special skillsets not available in the United States. "Highly skilled individuals that come to America through the H-1B visa program add tremendous value to the U.S. economy. We have a responsibility to ensure this important program isn’t being abused by employers to undercut American jobs,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “Unfortunately, loopholes in the program have allowed a small handful of employers to game the system to displace American workers and crowd out others who legitimately need the limited slots available to recruit individuals with unique skillsets not available here at home. The Protect and Grow American Jobs Act is a common-sense update that will go a long way to protecting American workers while helping companies access to the talent they need to grow their businesses and create new jobs here in America." The legislation approved today by the Judiciary Committee includes compromise language negotiated by Congressman Darrell Issa on a bipartisan basis. Among other changes, the bill: Updates wage requirements to better align with local market averages. The legislation replaces both the $60,000 wage exemption and the advanced degree exemption in favor of a new formula that is equal to the lesser of $135,000 or the mean wage for applicants’ occupation in their area (but subject to a floor of no less than $90,000). The bill would also require the wage levels in this formula to be indexed for inflation over time. Increases accountability for H-1B employers. H-1B dependent employers currently need to merely "attest" that they've taken good faith effort to recruit U.S. workers before seeking an H-1B visa for the open position. Under the new legislation, H-1B employers would be required to submit detailed a recruitment report summarizing the steps they have taken to recruit U.S. workers; the number of U.S. workers who applied for the job; the number of such workers who were offered the job, whether the workers accepted the offer, and for each worker who was not offered the job, the reason why the job was not offered. Bolsters transparency of the program. The legislation would require the Secretaries of Labor and Homeland Security to annually publish a report on the use of the H-1B program including lists of H-1B dependent employers, occupations, wages, worksites and the status of any on-going or completed investigations into misuse of H-1B programs. Improves oversight of H-1B dependent employers. The legislation authorizes the Department of Labor to conduct periodic investigations of H-1B dependent employers and requires the Department of Labor to review at least five percent of such employers annually. It also ensures that current H-1B penalties, including fines and debarment from the H-1B program, can be levied against any H-1B dependent employer that uses the program to displace American workers. A detailed summary of the legislation is available here.
11.09.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista), a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement after House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (VA-06) announced he will be retiring at the end of this Congress."Chairman Goodlatte has been a close friend, trusted colleague and valued mentor of mine. From him, I've learned a tremendous deal about how to tackle tough issues and advance meaningful solutions to the problems our country faces. I've enjoyed working closely with Chairman Goodlatte over the years and have nothing but the highest respect for him and the legacy he leaves behind. As a Chairman of two critical committees, Congressman Goodlatte has always proven himself as a thoughtful, forward-thinking leader. During his time in Congress, he's worked hard as a relentless advocate for internet freedom, a champion of strong intellectual property protections, and as an unyielding defender of our Constitution. Virginia's 6th District has been served admirably under his leadership.It's been a tremendous honor to work beside him. I wish Bob, his wife Maryellen, and their children and grandchildren, all the best in the years to come." ###
11.01.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement slamming the California gas tax hike, which takes effect today. Starting today, California drivers will be forced to pay 12 cents more for every gallon of gasoline or 20 cents more for every gallon of diesel fuel at the pump."Starting this morning, every single time drivers fill their tanks they'll be reminded the tremendous cost that California State Democrats have imposed on working families across our state," said Congressman Darrell Issa. "This tax hike will be felt most by families living and working paycheck to paycheck who have already found it harder to make ends meet thanks to state policies that have driven up the cost of electricity, gasoline and the goods and services they use every day." "Sacramento shouldn’t make families pay for its repeated financial mismanagement. California must repeal this misguided tax increase so we can help more families keep more of what they earn." According to polling, 58% of Californians oppose the gas tax increase. According to the Sacramento Bee, "opposition is widespread. Voters in all major regions of the state other than the Bay Area...are unhappy about it." Gas Prices Changed Overnight In CA-49 Showing The 12¢/Gal Tax Increase
10.27.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) fired back at Governor Brown today, responding to the Governor's letter urging Congressman Issa and other members of the California congressional delegation to vote no on proposals for tax reform. In his response, Congressman Issa reminds Governor Brown that the state and local tax deduction has only become of such increasing importance as a result of the tax hikes that have occurred under his tenure as Governor. "Rather than sending contrived letters pretending to care about the burdens placed on taxpayers in our state, I implore you to turn away from the era of ever-increasing taxes that have continued under your Administration and instead seek policies that actually lower the tax burden on all Californians," writes Congressman Issa.A signed PDF of the letter is available here. October 27, 2017 Governor Jerry Brown c/o State Capitol, Suite 1173 Sacramento, CA 95814 Governor Brown, I received your letter imploring me to oppose proposed legislation to reform our nation’s broken tax code. It seemed only fitting to take this opportunity to highlight your expertise on – as your letter states – “horrible ideas” on tax policy. I recognize the role of the state and local tax deduction to reduce the tax burden on many Californians, but let’s be clear: it has only become of such importance as a direct result of the tremendous weight that your misguided policies have put on California taxpayers. Since you encouraged me to “get the facts”, here are a few that illustrate the real impact of your own policies and proposals on the tax burden of the Californians we both represent. As a consequence of your tenure, Californians now must endure the highest sales and personal income tax rates in the entire country. In terms of our overall tax burden, the non-partisan Tax Foundation puts California’s combined state and local tax burden at the 6th highest in the nation. This is in no small part because of the hikes to sales and income taxes you lobbied for and eventually got passed in Proposition 30. When it comes to our business tax code, the numbers are even more abysmal. CNBC’s America’s Top States for Business report for 2017 puts California 49th in the nation for cost of doing business and 50th for business friendliness. With friends like Sacramento, is it any wonder businesses are fleeing the rest of the state? These numbers will only get worse, now that you’ve just signed into law a $5.2 billion annual gas tax increase, stripping hard earned money out of the hands of millions of hard-working Californians in our state. In terms of truly “horrible ideas” on tax policy, I have to say, this one takes the cake. Government must foster an environment that promotes economic growth. Rather than sending contrived letters pretending to care about the burdens placed on taxpayers in our state, I implore you to turn away from the era of ever-increasing taxes that have continued under your Administration and instead seek policies that actually lower the tax burden on all Californians. I will continue fighting for a fairer and simpler tax code that allows our constituents to keep more of their hard-earned money and I hope you will join me in that fight. Sincerely, Darrell Issa Member of Congress
10.23.2017	Citing the "urgency of removing radioactive material from SONGS," the City of Carlsbad has become the latest in a growing list local local government and organizations who have endorsed Congressman Issa's legislation to clean up San Onofre and move the 3.6 million pounds of spent nuclear fuel scheduled to be stored there out of our community. In a letter dated October 18, Carlsbad Mayor Matt Hall wrote for the City of Carlsbad to endorse Congressman Issa's bill, the Interim Consolidated Storage Act of 2017. "The City of Carlsbad supports H.R. 474 - the Interim Consolidated Storage Act of 2017," wrote Carlsbad Mayor Matt Hall. "The bill prioritizes the removal of spent nuclear fuel from decommissioned sites, such as the San Onofre Nuclear Power Generating Station (SONGS), which is located just 25 miles from Carlsbad... The site's vulnerability to natural disasters, and its proximity to the Pacific Ocean and the I-5 freeway, highlight the urgency of removing radioactive material from SONGS."The City's Full Letter Can Be Viewed Here Following the City's endorsement, Congressman Issa released the following statement: "It's encouraging to see so many of our local leaders voice their support for this important legislation," said Congressman Darrell Issa. "Already this Congress we've made tremendous progress on advancing the solutions we need to get this material moved out of our community, as hearings and legislation have continued to move forward. And with our growing list of local support, we will get the waste from SONGS moved out of our community and to safe and secure location as swiftly as possible." Congressman Issa's legislation - the Interim Consolidated Storage Act - is supported by groups including the City of Encinitas, the San Diego County Board of Supervisors, the Orange County Board of Supervisors, the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce, and the Mayors of Oceanside, Huntington Beach, Laguna Beach, San Clemente and Seal Beach through the Concerned Coastal Communities Coalition and the Angeles Chapter of the Sierra Club.Earlier in June, the House Committee on Energy and Commerce approved the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act of 2017, which included language he fought to include that would authorize interim storage to get the spent fuel removed from his district as soon as possible. The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee also held a hearing in September on the legislation which included testimony from the Chairman of the San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station Community Engagement Panel, David Victor.
10.19.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Committee on Government Oversight and Reform, returned from visits to Iraq, Afghanistan, and Kuwait as part of a Congressional Delegation mission (CODEL) to the Middle East this week. The trip was an opportunity to receive first-hand updates on the fight against ISIS and radical extremist groups, meet with high-level government and military officials on the front-line of our national security, and to visit the brave men and women serving abroad as part of the US Armed Services. In the final stop of his trip, Congressman Issa met with U.S. Ambassador to Iraq, Douglas A. Silliman, the Commanding General of the Combined Joint Task Force – Operation Inherent Resolve, Lieutenant General Paul E. Funk, and other mission leaders at the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad. The Congressman also enjoyed breakfast and lunch with Marines from Camp Pendleton and Twenty-Nine Palms in California that are serving with the Marine Corps Embassy Security Detachment and received briefings on military operations, the diplomatic mission and efforts to stabilize Iraq. Information on his stops in Afghanistan and Kuwait are available here and here. Photos from the trip are available the press below and a statement from the Congressman follows. High Rez and Additional Photos Available Here Congressman Issa said: "I'm grateful for the opportunity to see up-close the challenges our military faces and hear directly from the forces on the front lines of our fight against ISIS. We must stay vigilant as the threats from these groups continue to evolve and ensure our forces and allies in the area have all they need to succeed. Most of all, however, I was honored to spend time with the brave men and women serving from Camp Pendelton and soldiers from my district in San Diego and Orange Counties. The sacrifices they make to protect our way of life and the freedoms we enjoy every day are tremendous and deserve our heartfelt gratitude. I look forward to using the valuable insight gained from this trip as we continue advancing the policies we need to fight terror and keep our nation safe." ###
10.17.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, continued the Congressional Delegation mission (CODEL) in the Middle East by spending the day touring various locations throughout Kuwait, visiting with military service members and receiving updates on the fight against ISIS. During the visit, he had lunch with Marines from Camp Pendleton, California who are in Kuwait supporting efforts in Combined Joint Task Force - Operation Inherent Resolve, established and led by the U.S. with over 30 countries fighting together to defeat ISIS in Iraq and Syria. All branches of the U.S. military support this international mission to increase regional stability. Congressman Issa was briefed by key leaders from the U.S. Air Force, Army and Marine Corps on further military operations which continue to support and ensure success in the region. Photos available to the media are below and a quote from Congressman Issa follows. Additional Photos And High-Resolution Downloads Available Here Upon departing Kuwait for the next stop of the CODEL, Congressman Issa released the following statement:"As the fight against ISIS, Al-Qaeda and other radical terror groups continues to evolve, having the opportunity to meet first-hand with our troops and key officials on the frontlines of these missions is absolutely crucial. It was such an honor to be able to thank the men and women in uniform who continue bravely serving our country in these volatile regions and to see the challenges they face in the fight to keep us safe. I thank everyone for the chance to share their experiences with me and I look forward to continuing to support our troops as they work to fight ISIS and defend our freedoms."
10.16.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, spent the weekend visiting with Marines from Camp Pendleton, California and soldiers stationed in Afghanistan as part of a continuing Congressional Delegation mission (CODEL) to the Middle East. Congressman Issa was briefed on military operations in the area, the support needed to ensure success in the fight against radical terrorist organizations and our continuing efforts to train and support progress towards an independent Afghanistan. His agenda included meetings with key government and military leaders in the region including U.S. Army General John Nicholson -- commander of US Forces Afghanistan and NATO's Resolute Support Mission in the area -- as well as U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Hugo Llorens, Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction John Sopko, and U.S. Air Force Brigadier General Phillip Stewart among others. More Photos and High-Rez Copies Available on Flickr Here Upon departing for his next stop on the trip, Congressman Issa released the following statement:“I’m incredibly grateful for the opportunity to sit down and share a meal with the brave men and women who shoulder the daily burden of preserving liberty and keeping our nation and its allies safe. It’s absolutely crucial to hear from our military leaders and troops on the ground about the challenges they face, the lessons they’ve learned, and the support they still need to be successful in deterring the real threats that ISIS, the Taliban, and other extremist groups pose not only to our allies but to overall stability in the region. I will keep working to ensure our troops have the tools they need to succeed. I give my heartfelt appreciation to all those serving and to those I had the chance to meet with here -- including many constituents from Camp Pendleton -- for their service and sacrifice to our nation."
10.13.2017	As San Diego's ongoing hepatitis A outbreak continues to spread, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) today sent a letter to both the Department of Health and Human Servies and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention calling for the agencies to provide additional funding and expertise to help local city, state, and county government officials battle the continuing outbreak. A PDF of the Letter Is Available Here And Text Is Below October 13, 2017 Dear Acting Secretary Hargan and Director Fitzgerald: I write to request immediate federal assistance to fight the ongoing, deadly hepatitis A virus outbreak in San Diego County, California. As you are aware, the San Diego Health Department began examining a cluster of hepatitis A cases in March of this year. Since that time, the virus has continued to spread and it is now the largest hepatitis A outbreak the country has experienced in over a decade. According to the San Diego County Health and Human Services Agency, as of October 10, more than 490 individuals have been infected, resulting in 342 hospitalizations and, tragically, the loss of 18 lives. On September 1, 2017, the San Diego County Public Health Officer declared a local public health emergency for the county, yet the virus continues to spread. Because the virus has a long, sustainable incubation period, it can be particularly difficult to detect and halt the infection, especially amongst those in our community who are most at-risk, including the homeless, illicit drug users, and those working with these populations on a daily basis. Unfortunately, San Diego County is also grappling with one of the nation’s largest homelessness crises as the number of our homeless residents has risen to over 9,100 – the fourth highest population in the nation. While San Diego is experiencing the overwhelming majority of current hepatitis A cases, the entire state of California is at risk. A number of counties are already seeing signs of the disease spreading in their communities. Infections of the same strain of the virus have cropped up in Orange, Santa Cruz, and Los Angeles counties. In fact, health officials in Los Angeles County were forced to declare their own hepatitis A outbreak just last month. Infection from the virus may also be tied to cases as far away as Arizona. The outbreak has brought statewide totals to three times the number of reported cases in 2015, or almost half of what was reported in the entire country. San Diego County has already vaccinated more than 54,000 at-risk people, and spent over $3 million in attempts to contain it. Yet, the problem remains and the public is fearful. Given these growing concerns, we must take steps to mitigate further infection. I urgently request additional assistance from the federal government. I ask the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to dedicate further financial assistance for hepatitis A outbreak treatment and prevention to the state of California, especially to San Diego County. Further, I request HHS to work with other federal agencies to immediately identify and provide available emergency grant funding to enhance substantial local efforts to contain this virus and halt its spread, and aid neighboring communities in preparedness efforts. I ask HHS and the CDC to immediately develop and present a comprehensive plan of guidance and technical assistance to all state and local health departments on the steps and methods necessary to halt the infection. I ask HHS and the CDC to immediately assist state and local health departments on providing public education and awareness campaigns to help inform the public on how to protect themselves and stop the spread of the virus. I ask HHS and the CDC to make additional public health officials, pathologists, epidemiologists, physicians, or other necessary experts available on-the-ground to immediately assist local experts with efforts to contain the outbreak and deter its spread. The California Department of Public Health has already distributed more than 79,600 doses of hepatitis A vaccines; I ask HHS and the CDC to help our local public health agencies to ensure adequate supply and distribution chains are available and ready. Furthermore, I ask HHS and the CDC to provide a written report within 30 days of this letter which includes the total amount of federal funds spent on hepatitis A each year since FY2007, a description and purpose of the programs to which the funds have been allocated, how much money has been directed specifically to California over the last 5 years, and guidance on how the federal government will assist with emergency resources in the case of a sustained and/or growing hepatitis A outbreak. We cannot wait until more communities are infected and impacted before taking action. I ask for thoughtful consideration of the health of San Diegans and our neighboring communities. I look forward to a full and complete response as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Darrell Issa Member of Congress
10.12.2017	The House Judiciary Committee also today approved legislation introduced by Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) to protect taxpayers rights by allowing judges to transfer cases against the IRS to the correct court when a case is accidentally filed in the wrong court by mistake. The bill -- the Protecting Access to Courts for Taxpayers Act (H.R.3996) -- ensures taxpayers do not lose their cases or miss strict filing deadlines in tax cases by default just because they accidentally filed their suit in the wrong venue. It would allow judges to move their case to the right court, as judges can with other cases.“Taxpayers need access to justice. The current gap in taxpayer protections is inexplicable, leaving judges with no ability to transfer cases to the appropriate court of jurisdiction like judges have authority to do in almost every other type of case," said Congressman Darrell Issa. "Given tax court’s strict filing deadlines, which often are as short as 30 days, inadvertently filing in the wrong court can be detrimental to those seeking remedy since its virtually impossible for the error to be discovered in time for a taxpayer to refile in the correct venue. This is a small, but nevertheless important update that will patch this hole in our legal system to better help Americans seek justice." For most cases that do not involve the IRS, if it is accidentally filed in the wrong court, the initial judge will simply transfer the case to the correct venue at no penalty, financial or otherwise, to the litigant. Due to an omission in current law, there is no existing authority for a federal district court judge to transfer a case to the Tax Court. As a result, district court judges currently have no choice but to dismiss incorrectly filed cases and therefore require the citizen to refile the case at additional expense. Most importantly, however, filing deadlines to dispute IRS actions are often as short as 30 to 90 days. So if a case is incorrectly filed, it often becomes virtually impossible for the error to be discovered and allow the taxpayer the time to refile in the appropriate court before the deadline has passed. Giving judges the ability to simply transfer these cases as they can with other courts to tax court would alleviate this problem. Text of the legislation is available here
10.12.2017	Today the House Judiciary Committee approved legislation introduced by Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) to increase the ability of Congress to conduct oversight of the federal government. His bill – the Congressional Compliance and Enforcement Act (H.R. 4010) -- bolsters Congressional authority to enforce subpoenas issued by its Committees and Subcommittees in the course of their investigations. “Congress has a duty to hold government accountable because the people have a right to know what they get from their government and because they deserve an efficient, effective government that works for them,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “During my time as Chairman of the House Oversight Committee, I saw first-hand how the Executive Branch would do everything in its power to avoid complying with Congressional requests for documents and information that the committee was entitled to. This bill is a long-overdue update that will give Congress better tools to conduct our Constitutional responsibilities as the chief watchdog for the American people.” Specifically, in cases where there is lack of compliance with a duly issued Congressional subpoena, the bill would allow a committee to seek expedited court review by a three-judge panel of the district court in order to obtain enforcement, and would give committees the ability to petition for direct appeal to the Supreme Court. Moreover, the bill would statutorily require recipients to comply with congressional subpoenas and would require subpoena recipients to provide a congressional committee with a privilege log if they assert a legal privilege as a reason for withholding subpoenaed materials. Text of the legislation is available here.
10.11.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed bipartisan legislation he introduced with Congressman Gerald Connolly (D-VA) that would extend and improve landmark legislation they passed in 2014 to reduce waste, and streamline the way the federal government purchases computer technology. The FITARA Enhancement Act of 2017 (H.R. 3243) which passed today extends three provisions of the Federal Information Technology Acquisition and Reform Act that are set to expire at the end of the year. According to estimates from the Government Accountability Office, as much as 75% of the federal government’s $80 billion yearly information technology budget is spent on maintaining out-of-date or obsolete systems. Other reports from the government’s watchdog regularly show that many of the federal government’s IT investments frequently fail or underperform from a lack of oversight. Issa and Connolly’s landmark federal IT reforms (FITARA) help correct these problems and reduce waste by implementing strong oversight standards, encouraging consolidation of programs within the government, requiring agencies report their progress on initiatives to consolidate and modernize data centers, creating metrics to evaluate the performance of programs, encouraging modernization, and creating a clear line of responsibility, authority, and accountability over IT investment. “This legislation is critical to ensuring FITARA’s benefits are seen through to their fullest potential,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “FITARA has made incredible improvements to how the federal government manages its information technology by cutting waste, saving taxpayer dollars, improving security, and bolstering accountability. Yet, as is often the case in government, it has become clear that our problem with wasteful, forgotten, or duplicative data centers is far bigger than was even imagined. When we first started looking into this problem in 2009, it was estimated the government was running only roughly 1,000 data centers. By 2015, it was uncovered it was running as many 10 times the number initially estimated. As these modernization efforts continue being implemented, we can’t miss out on potential taxpayer savings by simply allowing agencies to run out the clock until the requirements expire the end of next year.” 1f231cc9d2cf22527879285584f7e00c.png The legislation follows the Representatives’ “dual track” approach to extending FITARA. In addition to the stand-alone bill passed today, Congressman Issa and Congressman Connolly passed a similar amendment to the 2018 National Defense Authorization Act in July of this year. The FITARA Enhancement Act of 2017, specifically extends the reporting requirements for data center consolidation, which is set to expire in 2018, and eliminates 2019 sunset provisions for PortfolioStat reviews (which are face-to-face reviews of an agency’s IT portfolio including potentially duplicative programs or investments that do not appear aligned with the agency’s mission) and the Information Technology (IT) Dashboard (which is a tool that allows the public and officials to track investment and performance of more than 7,000 federal IT investments). Congressman Issa authored the Federal Information Technology Acquisition Reform Act which was signed into law in 2014.
09.28.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) today met with the Mexican Ambassador to the United States, Geronimo Gutierrez, to discuss needed measures to fix the ongoing sewage spills along the Tijuana River Valley and San Diego County coastlines, and to collaborate on mutual priorities as the administration and others work to renegotiate NAFTA. "I appreciate the time Ambassador Gutierrez took to meet with me this afternoon. It was an important opportunity to work together on the steps needed to fix the sewage flows that continue contaminating our beaches and unite on issues of shared concern as the administration engages on NAFTA. Ambassador Gutierrez expressed his shared commitment to work with us to prevent further pollution of the Tijuana River Valley, as well as his focus on strengthening the United States and Mexico's trading relationship.""Strong trade partnerships are absolutely critical to creating economic growth and good-paying jobs for the American people. No one knows that more than us here in Southern California where in 2015 San Diego exported more than $17.4 billion worth of goods and continues to be one of the largest export markets in the entire country. I was encouraged by our conversation today and look forward to continuing our work together on these important issues." View more photos and download high-res versions on Flickr here. Earlier this week, Congressman Issa met with the Mayor of Tijuana at an event in DC held by the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce to discuss NAFTA and work needed to clean up and prevent future sewage spills. Congressman Issa and Congressman Vargas (D-Chula Vista) together introduced bipartisan legislation to provide the necessary funding and plan to rehabilitate the Tijuana River Valley, known as the Tijuana River Valley Comprehensive Protection and Rehabilitation Act. ###
09.26.2017	Congressman Issa (R-Vista) today took part in a hearing before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, examining nuclear waste storage policy and solutions that would allow nuclear waste, like that from the San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station (SONGS), to be moved out of our communities. At the urging of Congressman Issa, today's hearing included a local representative, the Chairman of the San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station Community Engagement Panel -- David Victor -- as it is imperative to ensure concerns from San Onofre area residents are heard and prioritized as the House continues advancing new policy aimed at breaking the decades of gridlock over the safe storage of nuclear waste. Highlights from Congressman Issa's portion of the hearing are below, as is a link to to footage where the entire hearing may be viewed. Congressman Issa: "Is there anyone who disagrees that there aren't a number of places inherently safer [than San Onofre] and that it would be inherently reckless to leave them in the least safe place that one could describe: on an earthquake fault, in a populated area, between an interstate and the ocean?" [Clip here]Mr. Victor: No. I completely agree, there are a lot of places that are a lot smarter.... Congressman Issa: "I fear that if we do not find [a solution], taxpayers will find that the fund will be evaporated [and] taxpayers will pay hundreds of billions of dollars, if we do not act now and act in a responsible way. I know for an absolute certainty taxpayers are already on the hook at this point for tens of billions of dollars over the next century, but this is a 10,000 year problem in need of a low-cost, safe solution. I thank you and the Ranking Member for holding this hearing. It's a great first step." [Clip here] Other witnesses in the hearing included:Mr. Anthony J. O’Donnell Commissioner of the Maryland Public Service Commission Chair of National Association of Regulatory Utility CommissionersMr. Chuck Smith Councilmember of Aiken County, South Carolina on behalf of Energy Communities AllianceDr. Edwin Lyman Senior Scientist, Global Security Program Union of Concerned ScientistsMs. Katie Tubb Policy Analyst at the Institute for Economic Freedom The Heritage Foundation Congressman Issa is the lead sponsor of the Interim Consolidated Storage Act of 2017, which he's introduced to pave the path forward on removing the nuclear waste from San Onofre. Earlier in June, the House Committee on Energy and Commerce approved the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act of 2017, which included language he fought to include that would authorize interim storage to get the spent fuel removed from his district as soon as possible. His bill - the Interim Consolidated Storage Act - is supported by groups including the City of Encinitas, the San Diego County Board of Supervisors, the Orange County Board of Supervisors, the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce, and the Mayors of Oceanside, Huntington Beach, Laguna Beach, San Clemente and Seal Beach through the Concerned Coastal Communities Coalition and the Angeles Chapter of the Sierra Club. Footage of the Full Hearing And More Information is Available Here
09.25.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed a bill which includes legislation he introduced in July to protect nursing home care for disabled veterans. Without the legislation passed today, as many as 2,060 veterans in California were poised to lose access to the care they needed when the program was set to expire at the end of the year on December 31, 2017. “Nursing home care is a crucial lifeline of support for so many disabled veterans throughout our state,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “After everything these heroes have sacrificed to protect and defend our nation, we owe it to them that we ensure they are well taken care of and receive the high-quality care they deserve. I’m proud that today’s extender package includes my bill to ensure these disabled heroes continue receiving the care they need. I encourage my colleagues in the Senate to swiftly pass this legislation so we can get it to the President’s desk without delay.” Congressman Issa’s “Keeping our Commitment to Disabled Veterans Act” (H.R. 3177) was included in the Department of Veterans Affairs Expiring Authorities Act of 2017 which passed today in the House of Representatives. The Department of Veterans Affairs reports that 35,000 veterans nationwide received care through this authority in Fiscal Year 2016. The Keeping Our Commitment to Disabled Veterans Act (S. 683) was introduced with the support of the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), and the National Association of State Veterans Homes (NASVH).
09.21.2017	This morning, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) presented the children of Jefferson Elementary School in Carlsbad with 190 new books secured by his office for their school library. Download Full Resolution Photos Here The books donated are part of an ongoing effort by Congressman Issa to partner with local schools to provide new reading materials for students. Since Congressman Issa's earlier donation to Bonsall West Elementary in Oceanside this May, Congressman Issa has successfully secured nearly 800 new books for local libraries at 8 different schools across California’s 49th District."It's so important to provide our students with new opportunities to learn and grow," said Congressman Issa. "Yet many of our schools often lack the resources they need to expand or update their collections. This is a great program which increases access to new books that will reinforce learning, enhance imagination, boost literacy, and prepare our students for future success. I'm incredibly honored to partner with schools in our area to provide books that benefit our students." The books donated range a variety of genres and reading levels to provide learning opportunities and challenging new reading materials for students of all age levels, from fiction and non-fiction to picture books and novels. The books are obtained through a Library of Congress program that regularly makes books available to Members of Congress to request and donate to eligible non-profits, local governments, and educational institutions free of charge. Schools and other interested groups can reach out to Congressman Issa’s Washington office for more information on how they can receive new books for eligible local libraries. ###
09.18.2017	At a press conference today in San Diego, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) and Congressman Juan Vargas (D-Chula Vista) together unveiled new bipartisan legislation they introduced to rehabilitate the Tijuana River Valley following ongoing wastewater spills in the area and to implement important measures to prevent such spills from happening again in the future. Their legislation, the Tijuana River Valley Comprehensive Protection and Rehabilitation Act of 2017, would provide grant funding and develop a coordinated plan to update the area's infrastructure to prevent the flooding of sewage, trash, and sediment into the Tijuana River Valley.Congressman Darrell Issa: “The impact of these continuing spills will be felt for generations to come unless we take action to stop it now. Allowing the sewage and wastewater to flow up into San Diego County not only hurts small business and our tourism-reliant economy but also poses serious health consequences for local communities and the border patrol agents who have been harmed in their ability to secure our border by the ongoing contamination. Solving this problem will come only with strong bipartisan and international cooperation. I’m proud of the work Juan and I have put into this bill to ensure that it gets cleaned up and that we take preventative measures to ensure it never happens again.”Congressman Juan Vargas: “Sewage from Tijuana has been flowing into the Tijuana River Valley, into beaches in San Diego County, and our communities for too long. This legislation will help rehabilitate the Tijuana River Valley and rebuild the infrastructure needed to prevent future spills.” A one-pager on the legislation is available here.The bill text is available here. The Tijuana River Valley Comprehensive Protection and Rehabilitation Act develops a coordinated program—including federal, state, local and international agencies—to provide technical assistance for the conservation, stewardship, and enhancement of the physical infrastructure in Mexico and the United States to clean up and prevent the ongoing flooding and wastewater spills that have occurred in the area. Through the direction of the Army Corps of Engineers, the Secretary of the Army will produce a feasibility and technical assistance plan to update the wastewater infrastructure in the area to halt contamination. Once a plan is finalized, the Secretary will be able to provide grants for infrastructure projects needed on both sides of the border to stop this problem from continuing to pour waste into the river valley. It would also create a Transboundary Waterway Alert System to monitor, warn, and protect residents from undue and avoidable harm in the case that any further flooding or spillage occurs. This alert system will ensure that updated and timely information on all water testing results and spills is easily and readily available to the public and government officials online, so that appropriate actions can be taken as quickly as possible. ###
09.13.2017	The House of Representatives passed an amendment offered by Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) to this year’s spending package – the Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act – to curb civil asset forfeiture abuse and provide additional funding to help clear the nation’s growing rape kit backlog. The legislation redirects $10 million from the Department of Justice’s budget allotted for the enforcement of civil forfeiture instead to the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program, which provides funding to local government to analyze unprocessed DNA evidence. Estimates indicate that as many as 400,000 sexual assault evidence kits remain untested, sitting on shelves in crime labs across America."Civil forfeiture remains a tremendous threat to private property rights and due process," said Congressman Darrell Issa. "My amendment helps cut down on asset forfeiture overreach by refocusing the Department of Justice's limited resources away from enabling the theft of Americans' private property and instead towards providing the resources needed to help clear our nation's growing backlog of untested sexual assault evidence. For too long, our sexual assault evidence kit backlog has been allowed to pile up, as evidence has collected dust in the backrooms of crime labs across our country. The very least we can do for victims is provide authorities with the funding they need to get these kits tested and bring their offenders to justice.”Congressman Issa also applauded the inclusion of amendments by Representatives Walberg, Amash and Raskin which would also block the expansion of civil forfeiture practices: "The growth, misuse and lack of accountability in our civil forfeiture practices have undermined far too many Americans constitutional rights," Congressman Issa continued. "I'm glad to see the level of attention this important issue has received in the appropriations process and look forward to working with my colleagues to continue our efforts to protect Americans’ due process rights."Congressman Issa has been a vocal critic of civil forfeiture abuse, calling out Attorney General Jeff Sessions for his new policy aimed at increasing police seizures of cash and property. He is an original co-sponsor of the DUE PROCESS Act which would increase the burden of proof required in forfeiture proceedings at the federal level. Additionally, he was an important co-sponsor of the sexual assault Survivors Bill of Rights Act which was signed into law last year.
09.07.2017	Today the House Judiciary Committee approved H.R. 3229, bipartisan legislation to protect the safety of federal judges by extending the authority of the Judicial Conference to redact sensitive information contained in their financial disclosure reports. The legislation passed Committee by voice vote. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Subcommittee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), and Representative Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.), chief sponsor of the legislation, praised today’s Committee passage of the bill. Chairman Goodlatte: “In recent years, we have seen increased threats and even assassinations of federal judges. While any threat to a member of the Federal Judiciary is unacceptable and must be dealt with in the strongest manner possible, there are steps that can be taken to reduce the risk for federal judges. “Today the House Judiciary Committee passed bipartisan legislation to ensure federal judges continue to have the ability to restrict the public availability of their home addresses. I applaud Representative Jeffries for his work on this legislation which is critical to ensuring the safety of our Federal judges and their family members.” Ranking Member Conyers: “Judges and judicial employees are often the subject of threats, harassment, and violence. A disgruntled litigant seeking to take revenge can learn of a federal judge’s sensitive personal information by requesting a copy of the judge’s financial disclosure report. H.R. 3229 is a bipartisan, commonsense measure intended to protect the safety of federal judges and judicial employees by allowing this sensitive information to be redacted from public financial disclosures. This bill will help those public servants who serve in the federal judicial branch avoid potentially life-threatening consequences.” Subcommittee Chairman Issa: “This is an important step to ensure the independence of our judicial branch to rule freely, fairly, and without fear of retribution. As a tireless advocate for government transparency, I appreciate the appropriate balance this bill strikes between the public’s safety and transparency interests to ensure our judges, who’ve often been targeted and even murdered following tough cases, can safely do their jobs.” Representative Jeffries: “An independent judiciary is fundamental to our constitutional democracy and equal justice under the law. H.R. 3229 will protect judicial officers from threats, harm and harassment by those who would seek to compromise the integrity of our judicial branch. I am pleased that the Judiciary Committee was able to expeditiously advance this important and time-sensitive legislation.” Background: In response to security concerns, Congress in 1998 authorized federal judges to request that certain information be redacted from their financial disclosure forms subject to the input of the Marshals Service and approval by a review committee of the Judicial Branch. This authority was extended in 2005 to cover the information of family members who are unfortunately also at risk of disgruntled litigants. H.R. 3229 extends the existing redaction authority that is about to expire at the end of this calendar year by ten years to December 31, 2027.
09.05.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement in response to the Trump Administration's decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “When President Obama unilaterally created DACA, he unlawfully overstepped his executive authority and only put a temporary band-aid on a problem which prolonged uncertainty for many children brought here through no fault of their own. The Administration’s decision today puts the onus on Congress to address this challenge in the right way: for the long-haul, with respect for our nation’s laws, a desire to enhance the integrity of our borders, and a sense of compassion for those who were brought here in their childhood years ago and wish to stay as productive members of our communities. I’m eager to get to work on a permanent fix and call on Democrats and Republicans alike to immediately put political posturing aside and let this be a catalyst to achieve long-overdue reforms in this important area of concern.” ###
08.17.2017	Rep. Issa and Sen. Lee: Job Licensing Is Too Often Bad for Jobs TIME Magazine August 17, 2017 By: Rep. Darrell Issa and Sen. Mike Leehttp://time.com/4905290/job-licensing-american-jobs/ Who’d have thought it would take more time, training and money to be licensed as a hair stylist, interior designer or barber than it does to become an emergency medical technician ready to save people’s lives in an emergency? Yet in California, Utah and every state across the nation, legal absurdities like this have become the new normal, as occupational licensing requirements (essentially government permission slips required to do your job) have become mandated in more fields than ever before. Their spread has made it increasingly difficult for workers — especially lower-income Americans — to start their careers or take new jobs in any number of fields, including even those as simple as hair-braiding, upholstery or, yes, even flower arranging. Americans already face a tough economy, and occupational licensing requirements only make it harder for them to build better lives for themselves and their families. For jobs with a direct impact on health or public safety, the government has a legitimate role to play in protecting customers from unscrupulous or dangerous actors in the marketplace. But many occupational licensing requirements have little to do with ensuring your safety — and a lot to do with keeping people like you out of work. Take California, for example, which requires four years of experience, $400 in fees and an exam in order to be licensed as a landscaper — 52 times the experience it takes to become an EMT. Or look at Utah, where it takes more than twice as much experience to work in a nail salon than it does to deliver medical care in an ambulance. Yet, if occupational licensing laws were really designed to protect public safety, you’d expect the opposite to be true. Just look at the numbers. In 1950, fewer than 5% of U.S. workers had to be licensed for their jobs. Today, nearly one in three needs a license. According to research by Institute for Justice, a non-profit law firm, California is the second-most “onerously licensed” state in the country. And Utah isn’t far behind, coming in at number 12. On average, aspiring workers in the ever-increasing number of licensed professions nationwide must pay more than $200 in fees, spend at least nine months in training and pass at least one exam, just to meet their respective states’ education and experience requirements. Occupational licensing laws erect unnecessary barriers for many, but the effects are especially pronounced for low-income and minority communities. Most low-income workers don’t have the savings or free time to enroll in required training programs, let alone to pay hundreds of dollars in fees just to earn an honest day’s wages. Additionally, a recent study showed that stiffer occupational licensing requirements reduced the number of low-income Americans taking the risk to start their own businesses by as much as 11%, compared to states with simpler requirements. The effects on our economy are stark. According to one estimate, licensing requirements run amok have cost the U.S. economy as many as 2.85 million jobs and cost consumers an astounding $203 billion a year. How’d we get in this mess? It's best to start by how examining how a state decides to license a given profession in the first place. Usually, a group of workers in a particular field band together and lobby state government set up a requirement. Next, a state licensing board is formed and invariably controlled overwhelmingly by practitioners of that industry. Standards are then adopted, administered and enforced by the board. Anyone who doesn’t meet the industry insiders’ requirements can be shut down on their command. The conflict of interest is painfully obvious. Existing professionals in a given field control the board, licensing requirements and who enters and leaves the market. They use this power to shut out competition, drive up pricing or, worse, lock out innovative new market disruptors that threaten their way of doing business. Further, since the boards often run with little oversight from state, they've become so rife with abuse that the Supreme Court has even begun to take notice. In 2015, the Court ruled that state licensing boards can be held legally liable for unfairly blocking competition after the North Carolina Board of Dentistry tried to prevent mall-based teeth-whitening services by requiring the procedure to be performed only by licensed dentists — despite the fact that countless Americans safely self-administer teeth whitening products at home every day. Though the decision raised questions over whether it may make it harder for states to recruit knowledgeable citizens, who are often market participants, to volunteer to staff licensing boards, the Supreme Court’s decision was a victory for American workers and consumers. More importantly, however, it gave Congress an opening to curb the worst excesses of these occupational licensing regimes. Building on this decision, we introduced the Restoring Board Immunity Act. The bill uses the Court’s decision to incentivize states to make necessary and long-overdue changes to their occupational licensing regimes by giving states two options: either bring the licensing boards under direct oversight of the state or create a way for citizens to challenge whether a given requirement is truly necessary for the public’s health and safety. Occupational licensing reform is a rare and growing area of bipartisan agreement that’s drawn the attention of lawmakers and think tanks all across the spectrum from the libertarian-minded Cato Institute, to the left-leaning Brookings Institution — even the Obama Administration, which put out a report in 2015 detailing the need for change. As consensus continues building Congress should seize the moment at once and come together to sweep away the most burdensome of these regulations and give countless Americans a better opportunity to improve their lives. ###
08.15.2017	As consensus continues to build on all sides of the aisle to roll back many of our nation's capricious and often unaccountable licensing requirements for Americans to work in particular fields, Michelle Cottle of the Atlantic takes a look at how these requirements are hurting American workers and how Congressman Issa and Senator Mike Lee's occupational licensing reform legislation could hold the key to "doing an awful lot of good for an awful lot of American workers." Excerpts are below and the full piece is available here. The Onerous, Arbitrary, Unaccountable World of Occupational Licensing The Atlantic August 13, 2017http://theatln.tc/2fBQnZY I know what you’re thinking: What kind of sad creature considers occupational licensing a hot topic? But with more than one in four U.S. workers now required to hold such a license, the answer absolutely should be: everyone. An occupational license is basically a government permission slip to do certain work. In many places, before one can become a makeup artist, taxidermist, massage therapist, and so on, one must first jump through a variety of hoops—attending classes, taking exams, and paying fees—mostly set at the state level. (Federal and local authorities are fringe players in this game.) ... In theory, such licensing protects consumers from being harmed by incompetent or fraudulent providers. (No one wants to get deep into labor only to discover that her midwife can’t tell an umbilical cord from a baby toe.) In practice, however, the process has sprawled far beyond questions of public health and safety, morphing into an onerous, arbitrary, unaccountable mess that, in far too many cases, is less about consumer protection than about economic protectionism. How does a state decide to license a particular occupation? Typically, workers in that field lobby legislators to establish such a system. Licensing requirements are then determined, and the system is overseen and enforced by a licensing board dominated by practitioners of said field. Any newcomer who attempts to enter that field without a proper license can be shut down by the board. It’s not hard to spot the potential conflict here. For a practicing barber, auctioneer, or funeral attendant, there’s a clear incentive to limit new competitors. Existing practitioners control licensing boards. Licensing boards control the flow of new practitioners. And since the boards tend to be (very) loosely overseen by the state, they often operate with scant accountability. It’s a classic recipe for abuse. ... Once licenses are on the books, it’s hard to get them off. Trade groups and training schools that benefit from the system lobby hard to keep them in place. Often, the judicial branch has to step in, which is what happened in 2015, when the Supreme Court ruled that the North Carolina State Board of Dental Examiners had overstepped in barring anyone but dentists from performing teeth whitening. Non-dentists had been charging less for the service, and dentists flipped out. Their licensing board issued cease-and-desist letters. In 2012, Obama’s Federal Trade Commission felt moved to file a complaint about the anti-competitive behavior. Technically, the high court’s ruling said that the board in question was not closely connected enough to the state government to enjoy its antitrust exemptions. The decision nonetheless served as a warning shot for all states to keep closer tabs on their boards and perhaps rethink their licensing regimes. “The court decision creates a sense of urgency,” Carpenter said. It’s also opened the door for the federal government to goose states toward a saner approach. In a speech to state lawmakers on July 21, Trump’s labor secretary, Alexander Acosta, told them to get serious about repealing anti-competitive licensing practices. Less than a week later, a gaggle of conservative lawmakers—Senators Ted Cruz, Mike Lee, and Ben Sasse, along with Representative Darrell Issa—introduced legislation that would give licensing boards immunity from antitrust suits, but only if a state dramatically reformed (read: dialed back) its licensing regime. ... Despite all the libertarian and conservative energy focused on occupational licensing, it is not a left-right, red-blue issue. Right along with IJ, the Brookings Institution has been pushing reform ideas. Liberal journalists such as Matt Yglesias and Jonathan Chait have denounced the insanity. And it was the Obama administration that got the ball rolling with a 2015 report outlining the need for reform. Now, it’s Trumplandia pressing for change, backed by some congressional support. Hopefully, they won’t lose focus. Fixing occupational licensing may not be as attention-grabbing as, say, building a see-through, solar-powered border wall, but it could do an awful lot of good for an awful lot of American workers. Read more in The Atlantic
08.12.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) issued the following statement condemning the white supremacist attack in Charlottesville, Virginia: "I am sickened by the despicable display of intolerance, violence, and hatred in Charlottesville this weekend. We must denounce white supremacy, bigotry, and their ancillary evils without hesitation and seek a more peaceful path forward for our nation." ###
07.27.2017	Today, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Senators Mike Lee (R-UT), Ted Cruz (R-TX), and Ben Sasse (R-NE) introduced the Restoring Board Immunity Act, a bill designed to help states reform their occupational licensing regulations. “Today roughly one in three American workers is required to obtain some sort of occupational license, often requiring hundreds in fees and months in training just to earn a living,” said Rep. Darrell Issa. “While many licenses are to ensure safety, these requirements are often for jobs no more risky than braiding hair, pet-sitting, or flower arranging. Overly burdensome requirements hurt small businesses, working parents, young entrepreneurs and others making it more difficult for honest Americans to get ahead. This bill discourages government overreach by allowing workers the freedom and opportunity to grow.” “Occupational licensing costs consumers $200 billion in higher costs every year and deprives an estimated three million prospective professionals of job opportunities,” Sen. Lee said. “This bill creates an incentive for states to implement much needed occupational licensing reforms.” "Occupational licensing schemes are one of the worst expressions of special interests stifling the American dream for hardworking men and women across this country,” Sen. Cruz said. “The government should not be unnecessarily denying people the opportunity to earn an honest living. This bill incentivizes states to roll back and reform job-killing regulations, and create better paying jobs and greater opportunity.” "If we want to help our neighbors find work and fight poverty, we can start by clearing away unnecessary occupational licensing barriers,” said Sasse. “Men and women who want to serve their communities and provide for their kids shouldn’t have to wander through the complicated maze of complicated licensing requirements." Text of the bill is available here. One-pager on the bill is available here. Section-by-section is available here. For some professions, like pilots and dentists, government sanctioned licensing requirements are necessary for public safety. But there is no reason a license is needed to decorate a room or braid someone’s hair. Unfortunately, far too many professions are now closed off to new entrants because of onerous licensing requirements. The Federal Trade Commission has been fighting some of these laws on antitrust grounds and in 2015 the Supreme Court’s decision in North Carolina State Board of Dental Examiners v. FTC created significant uncertainty regarding the legality of state occupational licensing boards across the country. This bill would both provide state occupational licensing boards the antitrust protection they need to continue operating, so long as the state enact certain occupational licensing reforms designed to protect consumers and prospective professionals
07.27.2017	U.S. Representatives Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Jared Polis (D-CO) appeared together on CNBC's Power Lunch to call for a bipartisan focus on job creation and support for the nation's start-up businesses ahead of this year's "Startup Day Across America" - a national day founded by the two Congressmen to celebrate the ingenuity and entrepreneurship taking place in Congressional Districts all across the country.Here's what they had to say: REP. POLIS: Five years ago, Darrell and I had a discussion. We said a lot of our colleagues, are attorneys, they had careers in the military. And they're wonderful people, but they don't have experience in or know about the startup world of entrepreneurship. Darrell and I are both entrepreneurs, so we said, "Why don't we create here in Congress a Startup Day Across America, where we get our colleagues to really understand the startup economy, visiting startups in their district, because truly there's new companies and new ideas in every zip code and in every district in this country." HOST: That is fantastic. Representative Issa, since I work at CNBC I'm hoping that this means that you guys can work across the aisle on tax reform. What do you think? REP. ISSA: … We do have a lot of common ground in what we believe is going to help get America producing way ahead of the rest of the world. You know one of the challenges is to find those things we agree on and do them, and try to stay away from those divisive issues that often divide us. … Click here to watch full appearance on CNBC. NOTE: Startup Day Across America will take place next week on Tuesday, August 1, 2017 as members of Congress from both parties across the nation take the day to visit with new businesses in their districts and see the challenges these entrepreneurs face.
07.27.2017	As the Senate continues its work to repeal and replace Obamacare -- working to find the 50 votes needed -- Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) is urging the Senate to take up a proposal to allow all Americans to purchase plans offered through the robust Federal Employees Health Benefits Plan (FEHBP).Congressman Issa wrote urging his Senate colleagues to consider the proposal he has offered since 2009 to give every American access to the same insurance plans provided to federal employees and their families. The concept has been discussed favorably in the past by conservative and liberals alike including by the Heritage Foundation, former Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole (R-KS), Barack Obama and the late Senator Ted Kennedy (D-MA).Opening FEHBP would solve many health care concerns, including the roughly one-third of the nation which will have no choice on Obamacare starting next year by providing hundreds of private plan options, nationwide coverage options, and required coverage of pre-existing conditions. In his letter to the Senate, Congressman Issa writes, “As the Senate looks for additional options to replace the ACA, opening the federal plans for all Americans would be comparatively quick and simple to implement: it is an already working coverage model, with more than a dozen nationwide plan offerings, tens of dozens of state plans, and millions of enrollees creating a large, relatively healthy risk pool for a base. This plan is not a new concept and historically has bipartisan appeal. Such a simple plan could go a long way to help deliver the consensus needed on this long-standing goal.” A full copy of the letter is available here. Congressman Issa has regularly introduced legislation to open FEHBP to all Americans since 2009. He’d additionally written to the Senate Health Care Working Group earlier in May asking the Senate to take up the idea as they crafted their replacement.
07.26.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement in response to the President's tweets this morning on transgender troops in the U.S. military: “The only criteria that should matter for our troops is whether or not they can do the job. If an American can meet the strict physical, medical and training requirements of our military, there’s no reason they should be barred from consideration to serve our country. Secretary Mattis had previously begun a review of transgender enlistment policies. I await the opportunity to review the results of that study and believe it would have been most appropriate for any decision to have been made only after it's completion and careful review.”
07.25.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement applauding House passage of tough new sanctions on Russia, North Korea and Iran. “Russia, North Korea, and Iran’s continued efforts to destabilize democracy and American interests around the world will not be tolerated,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “Today we send a clear message that continuing to threaten America, and our interests, will be met swiftly with lasting and severe repercussions. These bad-actors must be held accountable, and their continued efforts to undermine our national security must come to an end.”
07.25.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement after the House of Representatives approved the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Education Assistance Act (H.R. 3218) which expands, extends, and modernizes the GI Bill benefits granted to veterans and their families. “After giving it all to serve and defend our country, we have a responsibility to ensure veterans are prepared for the jobs not just of today, but also for the jobs of future. Employers are increasingly seeking candidates with a wide variety of skill sets. So why limit our veterans to only one type educational opportunity or stop them from using their benefits just because of their age? These reforms will widen the opportunities available to veterans, help equip our veterans for jobs in our modern economy and ensure they have the tools they need to build a successful future in their chosen field." The legislation passed in the House of Representatives includes a major overhaul and update to the GI Bill, known as The Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017 (H.R. 3218) which: Removes the requirement that veterans use their educational benefits within 15 years of the end of their service. Under the approved legislation, servicemembers would be able to use the GI Bill’s education benefits throughout their lifetimes. Allows all post-9/11 Purple Heart recipients to receive full GI bill benefits. Under current law, post-9/11 Purple Heart recipients would need to serve three years to receive benefits. Helps veterans obtain jobs in high-demand fields like technology and sciences. The bill authorizes a pilot program that allows veterans to use benefits for non-traditional education programs in coding and computer software. It would also extend benefits to veterans in STEM five-year degree programs to cover the fifth year of education.
07.21.2017	Between fighting to protect your right to due process, passing the biggest troop pay raise in more than 8 years, and approving important measures to fight human trafficking, the last few weeks in Congress I have been hard at work delivering results for you. Today, I wanted to take a quick moment to send a few updates on progress we've made over the last few weeks and seek your input. Protecting Due Process and Curbing Forfeiture The Department of Justice announced it would be expanding civil forfeiture - an unconstitutional provision that allows the confiscation of property from Americans with no proof of wrong doing. I'm fighting back. It's time to pass my DUE PROCESS Act to curb forfeiture abuse.Read more in the Washington Post. Honoring The Fallen This week, I joined my colleagues to hold a moment of silence to honor Marine Corps Captain Sean Elliott , of Orange County, and all 16 Marines killed in the C-130 crash on July 10th. We remember their service and sacrifice to our great country.See the moment on Twitter here. Fighting Human Trafficking Sadly, San Diego remains one of the nation's worst cities for human trafficking. More than 8,000 people become victims of trafficking in San Diego County each year. This week, the House approved 3 measures to fight trafficking and bring this horrible crime to an end.Learn more on my work to #EndTrafficking here. Extending Care For Disabled Veterans Unless we act this year, a program providing nursing home care to disabled veterans will lose authorization. I introduced legislation to ensure these veterans continue receiving the care they need. Discover more on this important bill here Restoring Oversight To Sober Living Homes My office gave updates on my bill to give local communities the power to implement checks and balances on sober living homes and help address this crisis in our community at the Mission Viejo and Ladera Ranch Council Meetings. Find out more on my legislation here. Troops to Get Biggest Pay Raise in 8 Years Last week, the House passed the biggest pay raise for our military in 8 years. The bill also includes vital funding to improve Camp Pendleton and provides much-needed funding to boost U.S. cyber and missile defenses.Read more on the NDAA here. Issa's DATA Act Restoring Faith in Government, Officials Say In 2014, Congressman Connolly and I passed the DATA Act into law to make all government spending information clear and open to the public. As our law has now begun implementation, it's clear what a difference it's making to root out government waste.Read more on the DATA Act in FedScoop. What Do You Think About Sober Living Homes? Constituents have raised concerns about sober living homes and the abuses that have occurred in these facilities. I've proposed federal legislation that will give communities the tools they need to implement oversight of sober living homes.What do you think about returning control from Washington? Take my survey today! Need my help with an issue or just need to be heard? Send me an email or give me office a call at any time! I'm always happy provide help with issues including VA benefits, Medicare, Social Security, flag requests, tours and tickets for your visit to our nation's capitol and more!
07.20.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista), a former Captain in the U.S. Army, released the following statement after introducing two bipartisan resolutions (H. Con. Res. 70 and H. Res. 462) to recognize the patriotism and contributions of veteran service organizations to our community. The first, H. Con. Res. 70, commends veterans’ service organizations for their work to ensure that veterans are laid to rest with the proper honor and ceremony they deserve. Every year, veterans service organizations like the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), the Wounded Warrior Project and others, volunteer countless hours to ensure veterans receive the proper honors afforded to them at their funerals including taps, presentation of the flag, and the funeral detail of at least two uniformed members of the Armed Services. The second, H. Res. 462, celebrates the contributions of generations of these organizations to support members of the Armed Services, their families and our communities as a whole. These organizations each year raise money to aid and enhance the lives of members of the Armed Forces, veterans, and their families by providing financial support with essentials such as rent, child care, utilities, and food, hosting “stand-downs” that focus on providing vital health and support services to homeless veterans, and strengthening their local communities by conducting food drives, visiting hospitals, and providing scholarships to local youth.“The selfless men and women who serve these great organizations deserve to be recognized for their contributions to honor and support our nation’s veterans,” said Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista). “I’m proud to introduce these resolutions to display the nation’s appreciation for the important work they do to improve the lives of veterans, their families and our community.” The full text of the twin resolutions introduced today can be read here and here. They are introduced with the support of 34 co-sponsors from both sides of the aisle including Representatives Kevin Brady (R-TX), Tim Ryan (D-OH), Bill Posey (R-FL), Devin Nunes (R-CA), Mimi Walters (R-CA), Paul Cook (R-CA), Stephen Knight (R-CA), Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), Edward Royce (R-CA), Alex Mooney (R-WV), Fred Upton (R-MI), Michael Burgess (R-TX), Claudia Tenney (R-NY), Doug Lamborn (R-CO), Scott Perry (R-PA), Duncan Hunter (R-CA), Juan Vargas (D-CA), Luis Correa (D-CA), Henry Cuellar (D-TX), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Chris Collins (R-NY), Elise Stefanik (R-NY), Bill Flores (R-TX), Tom McClintock (R-CA), Brian Mast (R-FL), Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), Neal Dunn (R-FL), Marsh Blackburn (R-TN), Doug LaMalfa (R-CA), Brian Babin (R-TX), Bill Huizenga (R-MI), Robert Pittenger (R-NC), Steve Chabot (R-OH) and Scott Desjarlais (R-TN). Background: For nearly a century, veterans service organizations have served as a complementary and integral part of supporting members of the Armed Forces, veterans, and their families. Veterans service organizations have representatives in all 50 States, territories and abroad. Since their inception, veterans service organizations have proudly supported members of the Armed Forces, veterans, and the families of those who have served, volunteering millions of hours to provide honor and ceremony to those who have perished. Auxiliary units of veterans service organizations have more than 1,000,000 members and are composed of wives, widows, mothers, grandmothers, daughters, and granddaughters of veterans, as well as veterans themselves. These organizations have raised money to aid and enhance the lives of members of the Armed Forces, veterans, and their families through financial support—providing assistance with essentials such as rent, child care, utilities, and food. Many of these organizations host “stand-downs” that focus on providing vital health and support services to homeless veterans. They strengthen their local communities by conducting food drives, visiting hospitals, and providing scholarships to youth. Veterans organizations provide military honor ceremonies for fallen veterans and their families. They volunteer their services at facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs throughout the country to enhance the lives of veterans and their families.
07.19.2017	Today Congressman Issa introduced a bill to fix a long-standing flaw in pre-1972 copyright. This is what the artists are saying about it.Melissa Etheridge, Grammy Award winning American singer-songwriter "I have found so much inspiration in the songs of the past, the songs I grew up with. The least – the very least – I could do is show them respect and honor them by urging Congress to fix the law so that they can get paid by digital radio. That’s why this bill is so important.”Mary Wilson of The Supremes "This is a great step forward for legacy artists. Thank you to Representatives Issa and Nadler for recognizing that music made before 1972 is just as important and valued as post-1972 music."Carlene Carter, Singer-Songwriter “It’s a travesty that artists who shaped our creative minds and inspired us to want to play music in the first place are not being acknowledged and compensated for the music they gave us. I’m hopeful this important legislation will address this issue for all time."Sam Moore, Member of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame "I am overjoyed and extraordinarily grateful for Congressmen Issa and Nadler's bipartisan relentless efforts to correct an inequality in the law that discriminates against myself and my peers-- the legacy artists who recorded our hit records prior to 1972. It is has been unfair and outrageous that the artists, such as myself, who recorded some of our country's most iconic music, have been forced to resort to lawsuits in order to get paid for the commercial use of their recordings. It is phenomenal that finally there is light shining at the end of this very long tunnel we've been looking at for so long. Knowing there is a consensus agreement to resolve any portion of this outrageous problem makes me proud and furthers my hope that I will still be alive to see the other issues Reps. Nadler and Issa have championed in the Fair Play Fair Pay Act come to similar positive bipartisan resolution and conclusion.”Steve Cropper, legendary guitarist, songwriter, and producer "The fact U.S., copyright protection does not apply sound recordings made prior to February 15, 1972 makes absolutely no sense. Early rockers like me and my peers are on heavy rotation these days on popular oldies channels and on digital radio services. And unlike many other platforms, we’re not compensated for it. How is that fair? It’s our music that attracting listeners and thus we should be paid. I’m grateful for the leadership of Reps. Issa and Nadler and their efforts to fix this enormous injustice with this important bill.” Dave Koz, Smooth Jazz Saxophonist "Every artist making music today stands on the musical shoulders of those who came before them. I would not be doing what I do if it weren’t for the heritage acts I grew up listening to, idolizing and trying to emulate. The fact that these amazing artists are not getting compensated for their indelible work and profound influence is simply unfathomable to me, and must be fixed. I am grateful to the sponsors of this bill for finally trying to even the scales, as there is no future in music without honoring the past.”
07.19.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) and Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee for Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet (respectively), today introduced bipartisan legislation to close a long-standing gap in federal copyright law. H.R. 3301, the Compensating Legacy Artists for their Songs, Service, and Important Contributions to Society Act (the CLASSICS Act) resolves uncertainty over the copyright protections afforded to sound recordings made before 1972 by bringing these recordings into the federal copyright system and ensuring that digital transmissions of both pre and post-1972 recordings are treated uniformly.The CLASSICS Act serves as an update to the "pre-72 treatment" of the Fair Play Fair Pay Act – a broader music licensing bill introduced by Chairman Issa and Ranking Member Nadler earlier this Congress – and represents a broad consensus from a variety of stakeholders across the music landscape. Congressman Darrell Issa: “This an important and overdue fix to the law that will help settle years of litigation and restore some equity to this inexplicable gap in our copyright system. It makes no sense that some of the most iconic artists of our time are left without the same federal copyright protections afforded to their modern counterparts. This bill is the product of a great deal of work to build consensus across party lines and varying interests all-over the music and entertainment landscapes on how to best resolve this long-standing problem. I'm very proud of the work we've done here. It will go a long way helping bring music licensing laws into the twenty-first century.” Congressman Jerrold Nadler: “For years, we have been working to ensure royalty payments for artists who recorded many of our great musical classics before 1972. The Fair Play Fair Pay Act set down a clear marker on the need to resolve the dispute over pre-72 music, as we worked toward a long-term solution that benefits multiple stakeholders. The bill we are introducing today updates this Pre-72 provision, once and for all guaranteeing royalty payments for our great legacy artists while providing certainty for digital music services. Hopefully, this new measure will serve as an example of the consensus that can be reached between the creators and distributors of music as we work to comprehensively update our music licensing laws. Many of these older musicians are past their working years and have no other way to make ends meet. I’m thankful to the supporters of this bill for recognizing that pre-72 recordings have value and that those who create it should be paid regardless of their age.” The bill is introduced with the support of stakeholders across the music and entertainment industry including American Association of Independent Music, the Recording Industry Association of America, Pandora, musicFIRST, the Internet Association, the GRAMMYs, SoundExchange, Screen Actors Guild‐American Federation of Television and Radio Artists, American Federation of Musicians, the Content Creators Coalition, the Future of Music Coalition, the Rhythm and Blues Foundation, and the Living Legends Foundation.In addition to Chairman Issa and Ranking Member Nadler, Representatives John Conyers (D-MI), Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), Tom Rooney (R-FL), and Ted Deutch (D-FL) joined as original co-sponsors of the legislation.Text of the Legislation is Available HereOne-Pager On The Bill Is Available Here BACKGROUND INFORMATION AND ADDITIONAL RESOURCES: Congress made sound recordings eligible for federal copyright protection with the Sound Recording Amendment of 1971, but the law as passed only applied to works created on or after February 15, 1972. Sound recordings made before 1972 were excluded from federal copyright protectionThis gap has meant that different recordings made before 1972 have been subject to an inconsistent patchwork of different laws, creating significant uncertainty for rights holders music creators, and distributors, including digital streaming services, who wish to be able to fairly compensate artists and utilize these recordings.The differing treatment of pre and post 1972 was an inexplicable and arbitrary oversight on the part of Congress. The U.S. Copyright Office has expressed their bewilderment with the decision, writing in their recent report on federal copyright protections for pre-1972 sound recordings that “Congress did not articulate grounds for leaving pre-1972 sound recordings outside the federal scheme and there is very little information as to why it did so.”This gap has meant that updates to copyright law and new protections extended to sound recordings under the Copyright Act of 1976 and the Digital Millennium Copyright Act have excluded pre-1972 recordings. The most significant of these being the ‘safe harbor’ provisions for online piracy and ‘compulsory licenses’ made available for internet and satellite radio streaming. Additional resources: In-depth overviews of this problem are available at Plagiarism Today, the Hollywood Reporter, and the US Copyright Office.
07.17.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement after Attorney General Jeff Sessions indicated that the Department of Justice plans to roll out a new policy aimed at increasing police seizures of cash and property under civil forfeiture. “This is a troubling decision for the due process protections afforded to us under the Fourth Amendment as well as the growing consensus we’ve seen nationwide on this issue,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “Ramping up adoptive forfeitures would circumvent much of the progress state legislatures have made curb the misuse of civil forfeiture and expand a loophole that’s become one of the most flagrantly abused provisions of this policy. Criminals shouldn’t be able to keep the proceeds of their crime, but innocent Americans shouldn’t lose their right to due process, or their private property rights, in order to make that happen. I will continue to work with our partners in law enforcement and the Department of Justice to enact reforms like those laid out in the DUE PROCESS Act which my House colleagues and I re-introduced earlier this year.” Congressman Issa earlier penned an op-ed for the Los Angeles Times calling for civil forfeiture reform. In the piece, he derided equitable sharing as a "federal loophole that lets cops go treasure hunting" and asserted that civil forfeiture "stands in stark contrast to constitutional principles of due process and property rights." He also is an original co-sponsor of the DUE PROCESS Act, which he and his colleagues introduced in the House of Representatives to curb civil forfeiture misuse at the federal level. ###
07.14.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2810, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018, which included a key, bipartisan amendment led by Congressman Darrell Issa and Congressman Gerry Connolly (D-VA) that would extend key measures of their Federal Information Technology Acquisition Reform Act, which was signed into law in 2013. The Amendment would extend three provisions of their law to reduce duplication of efforts, increase transparency, reduce waste, and improve how the federal government acquires, implements and manages its information technology investments. “This year’s NDAA helps rebuild America’s military and ensures our forces are ready to take on the threats of our ever-changing world,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “It provides funding for long-overdue modernization efforts, a well-deserved pay raise for our troops, all while providing crucial increases for our missile defense and cyberwarfareprograms. I’m also thrilled the bill included our measure to extend key provisions from the Federal Information Technology Acquisition Reform Act. This will ensure agencies continue to be held accountable, that efforts in this program to cut waste continue, and that agencies will not be able to avoid reporting and transparency requirements by slow-rolling until the sunset. I’m proud of the work we’ve done on this great piece of legislation and hope the Senate will get it to the President’s desk as soon as possible.” Among other provisions, the House-passed National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018: Fully funds a 2.4% pay increase for our troops Boosts defense spending 10% over the previous year to $696.1 billion Makes key investments in modernizing our military’s tools and equipment to ensure our troops have exactly what they need to keep us safe Allocates an additional $2.5 billion to missile defense systems to protect our homeland from the threats posed by ICMBs from North Korea and Iran Bolsters funding for impact aid to educate children of military families Increases defensive and offensive cyber operations budgets by $1.7 billion to close critical gaps in cyberwarfare capabilities Extends key provisions of Congressman Issa’s landmark federal IT reform measure, the Federal Information Technology Acquisition Reform Act, that were set to expire in 2018 and 2019. For more information on this amendment, please click here. The bill also included key investments to help support Camp Pendleton including: $61 million to upgrade the base's ammunition supply point $24.6 million for a new ambulatory care center $9.9 million to build new battalion company headquarters and team facilities $7.2 million for a motor transport facility expansion More more on the projects included, click here. For a more thorough summary of the NDAA as a whole, please click here. ###
07.12.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista), a senior member of the House Judiciary and Foreign Affairs Committees, released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed 3 measures to fight human trafficking. “Human trafficking isn’t a Democrat or Republican issue, it’s a moral issue,” said Congressman Darrell Issa, “and we must do everything in our power to bring this despicable crime to an end. Here in Southern California, we’ve seen first-hand the heartbreaking impact of human trafficking. Sadly, San Diego remains one of the nation’s worst cities for child sex trafficking and estimates show that more than 8,000 people become victims of human trafficking in San Diego County alone each year. These measures contain important tools to help combat this terrible crime and bring its perpetrators to justice.” The human trafficking bills passed today include: H.R. 2664 – Enhancing Detection of Human Trafficking Act, which ensures the Department of Labor effectively trains its employees to recognize and respond to the signs of human trafficking when they inspect workplaces for potential labor violations or in the course of their other roles and responsibilities. H.R. 2480 – The Empowering Law Enforcement to Fight Sex Trafficking Demand Act, which expands the Department of Justice’s Edward Byrne Justice Assistance Grants Program (Byrne JAG) to enable law enforcement to receive grants to specifically to develop and carry out programs that fight sex trafficking demand. H.R. 2200 – The Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention Act, which reauthorizes funding for US international and domestic anti-human trafficking efforts, pursuant to the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (TVPA), which is set to expire on September 30, 2017.
07.11.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) today introduced legislation to preserve nursing home care for thousands of disabled veterans nationwide. Without reauthorization, a Department of Veterans Affairs program which provides coverage for nursing home care to veterans with a 70-percent or higher disability rating will expire at the end of this year on December 31, 2017. The bill, titled “Keeping our Commitment to Disabled Veterans Act” (H.R. 3177) extends the existing authority to ensure veterans continue receiving the care they need. According to estimates provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs, 2,060 veterans statewide in California will be affected if the program is not renewed. “Our veterans have given so much serve our country, at the very least, we owe it to them that we ensure they are well taken care of,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “Nursing home care has been a critical lifeline for many of our disabled veterans throughout our state. I’m proud to help shepherd this important extension to keep the commitments we’ve made to our nation’s heroes.” The bill is a companion to the Senate version of the legislation introduced in March by Senators Collins (R-Maine) and Hirono (D-Hawaii). The Department of Veterans Affairs reports that 35,000 veterans nationwide received care through this authority in the fiscal year 2016. The Keeping Our Commitment to Disabled Veterans Act (S. 683) was introduced with the support of the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), and the National Association of State Veterans Homes (NASVH). Text of the legislation can be viewed here. ###
06.29.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista), a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed two bills to improve make our communities safer and ensure the enforcement of federal immigration law. “Fixing our broken immigration system starts by securing our border and enforcing our laws,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “Two years ago, Kate Steinle died needlessly at the hands of a criminal alien repeatedly deported and convicted of numerous felonies. Her death is made all the more devastating given how preventable it was, had our immigration laws been enforced. Sanctuary policies send a message that, in some of our communities, federal law can be ignored without penalty, and only make our broken immigration system even worse. Unfortunately, California has chosen to go down a path of seeking to ignore federal law, which I fear would further endanger law-abiding citizens like Kate. Passing these bills will help prevent future tragedies and take an important step in making our communities safer.”Background on the bills passed today:No Sanctuary for Criminals Act (H.R. 3003): Strengthens the law to combat dangerous sanctuary policies that shield unlawful and criminal immigrants from federal immigration enforcement. Clarifies U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detainer authority – the tool used by federal immigration enforcement officers to pick up criminal aliens from local jails – by establishing statutory probable cause standards to issue detainers for the first time. Withholds certain federal grants from jurisdictions that violate federal law by prohibiting their officers from communicating with ICE. Protects jurisdictions that comply with detainers from being sued, while allowing victims of crime to sue jurisdictions that refuse to comply and subsequently release criminal aliens onto the streets. Contains Sarah and Grant’s Law, which ensures unlawful immigrants convicted of drunk driving or arrested for other dangerous crimes are detained during their removal proceedings. Kate’s Law (H.R. 3004): Protects public safety by enhancing penalties for deported felons who return to the United States. The bill is named after Kate Steinle, who was murdered in San Francisco by an unlawful immigrant who had previously been deported five times and was convicted of multiple felonies. ###
06.28.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista), a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Protecting Access to Care Act, which provides tort reform for healthcare lawsuits. The bill will help lower the cost of health insurance by reducing defensive medicine and frivolous medical lawsuits. “One of the chief failings of the Affordable Care Act is that it never addressed the true cost-drivers of healthcare,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “We spend billions every year on unnecessary procedures just to shield providers from possible lawsuits and it makes health care more expensive for all of us. This is on top of the huge sums doctors pay for malpractice insurance – fees which are ultimately passed on to us as the consumer. The bill we passed today uses California medical liability reform as a model for the nation to deliver real savings to American families.” Background: The Protecting Access to Care Act is modeled after California’s Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act (called MICRA), which has curbed California’s medical professional liability premiums, and Texas’ Medical Liability and Insurance Improvement Act (MLIIA). According to the Congressional Budget Office, under the Protecting Access to Care Act, federally funded healthcare programs could save more than $50 billion over the next 10 years. MICRA’s reforms in California, which are included in the Protecting Access to Care Act, include a $250,000 cap on noneconomic damages, limitations on the contingency fees lawyers can charge to maximize patient recovery, and a “fair share rule,” by which damages are allocated in direct proportion to fault. The Protecting Access to Care Act does not limit awards for economic damages to injured victims. ###
06.28.2017	Washington, D.C. (June 28, 2017)—Today, Representatives Darrell Issa and Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter to Chairman Trey Gowdy urging him to place the bipartisan, bicameral Fair Chance Act on the agenda for the Committee’s next business meeting. The bill, which would give formerly incarcerated Americans a fair chance at obtaining employment with the federal government, was introduced by Cummings and Issa in April. “This bipartisan bill would reduce recidivism and strengthen our communities,” Issa and Cummings wrote. “It is a balanced approach that gives prospective employees a meaningful opportunity to interview and be considered based on their merits, while still providing employers the opportunity to learn about criminal histories before hiring new employees.” Due in part to significant grassroots efforts across the country, states and cities have been implementing “Ban the Box” polices to help people with criminal records overcome the barrier to employment of having to “check the box” on job applications. Eighteen states and more than 100 cities and counties have taken action, and companies such as Walmart, Koch Industries, Target, Home Depot, Starbucks, and Bed, Bath & Beyond have also embraced Ban the Box policies. The Fair Chance Act would: ban the federal government—including the executive, legislative, and judicial branches—from requesting criminal history information from applicants until they reach the conditional offer stage; prohibit federal contractors from requesting criminal history information from candidates for positions within the scope of federal contracts until the conditional offer stage; include important exceptions for positions related to law enforcement and national security duties, positions requiring access to classified information, and positions for which access to criminal history information before the conditional offer stage is required by law; and require the Department of Labor, Census Bureau, and Bureau of Justice Statistics to issue a report on the employment statistics of formerly incarcerated individuals. Senators Cory Booker (D-NJ) and Ron Johnson (R-WI) introduced the bill in the Senate in April, and it passed unanimously out of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, chaired by Johnson, the next month. On May 21, 2015, Cummings and more than 70 Members of the House sent a letter to President Obama urging him to adopt “ban the box” hiring policies in the federal government. In November, the Office of Personnel Management issued a final rule promoting fair chance hiring policies. Click here to read the letter.
06.28.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Energy and Commerce approved legislation which paves a new path forward for the safe storage of the nation’s nuclear waste. The Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act of 2017 (H.R. 3053), includes key components that would allow nuclear waste from the San Onofre Nuclear Generation Station (SONGS) to be moved out of our community. Under a bipartisan compromise added to the legislation, the long-awaited permanent nuclear storage facility at Yucca Mountain can move forward and the Department of Energy would be authorized to open a temporary, “interim” site where nuclear waste from shuttered facilities (like SONGS) could be moved and safely stored while the Yucca repository is completed. Congressman Issa has long been fighting to approve interim storage to ensure nuclear waste can be moved out of our communities as soon as possible. “The move today makes clear that the last 30 years of obstruction over any and every plan to get nuclear waste out of our communities is over,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “For years, I have been fighting to ensure the federal government upholds its end of the deal and takes the nuclear waste from SONGS and places it into the safe storage site the ratepayers are owed and have paid for. Today, I’m glad to see these hard-fought efforts are beginning to pay off.” "The compromise language agreed to today will ensure not only that the long-term, permanent storage site at Yucca finally gets completed, but also ensures that temporary sites will be opened so that waste from facilities like SONGS in my district can be moved out of our backyard as soon as possible. I thank Chairman Walden and Representatives Shimkus, Upton, Barton, Matsui and others for coming together with us all on this very important piece of legislation and look forward to its quick passage by the House and our colleagues in the Senate as soon as possible." During the committee hearing, Chairman Walden commended all the work Congressman Issa and others have done to "thread the needle through a very narrow eye to get us to this point" and for being "very involved" in the process to make this bill a reality. Video from the hearing here.BACKGROUND: Congressman Issa has been championing legislation he introduced – the Interim Consolidated Storage Act (H.R. 474) – which would authorize interim nuclear storage sites, like those included in the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act of 2017. The legislation approved today, Provides $50 million or 10% of the appropriated amounts from the Nuclear Waste Fund to provide interim storage facilities for fiscal years 2020-2025 Allows the Energy Secretary to enter into an agreement for interim storage of nuclear waste when the NRC’s decision on Yucca Mountain is “imminent” and allows an interim storage agreement to move forward even if a final decision on Yucca Mountain is ultimately denied Ensures DOE upholds its responsibility to take ownership of spent fuel and for transportation to a storage facility Prioritizes removing waste from shuttered plants, like SONGS Clarifies regulatory and permitting requirements related to the development of a permanent repository at Yucca Interim storage is supported by local governments and leaders as an important part of getting the nuclear material from San Onofre moved out of our community. Local groups including the City of Encinitas, the San Diego County Board of Supervisors, the Orange County Board of Supervisors, the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce, and the Mayors of Oceanside, Huntington Beach, Laguna Beach, San Clemente and Seal Beach through the Concerned Coastal Communities Coalition and the Angeles Chapter of the Sierra Club, have expressed their support for this important legislation. ###
06.27.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives approved the bipartisan resolution he co-led condemning the recent murder, torture and detention of gay men by the Chechen government. The Congressman introduced the resolution on May 23rd with Chairman Ed Royce (R-Calif.), and Reps. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla.), Eliot Engel (D-NY), David Cicilline (D-RI), and Chris Smith (R-NJ) after reports surfaced that Chechen authorities were arresting and torturing citizens as part of an effort to purge their country of those suspected of being gay. “Passing this resolution sends a strong and united message that this barbaric persecution must be brought to an end,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “We cannot stand by idly as this chilling tragedy continues. In passing this resolution, we make clear to Chechen leaders, the Russian government and the international community that these heinous violations of basic human rights will not be tolerated against anyone, anywhere, regardless of their political viewpoints, religious beliefs or their sexual orientation.” The full text of the passed House Resolution is available here.
06.26.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista), a veteran of the U.S. Army, released the following statement after the House of Representatives approved bipartisan legislation to ease veterans’ transition into civilian employment opportunities by streamlining the process for trained service members to obtain commercial drivers’ licenses (CDL). The move comes as the commercial trucking industry faces a shortage of roughly 48,000 drivers, according to data from the American Trucking Associations. This legislation would allow veterans, many of which are already trained to operate heavy military vehicles, to help fill this gap. “Veterans who already have the skills, training, and experience to operate heavy vehicles from their service shouldn’t have to hop through duplicative bureaucratic loopholes to get a commercial drivers license and use these skills in the private sector,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “The bills we’ve approved today are simple fixes that will go a long way to removing red tape and helping service members find good-paying jobs.” The legislation passed today includes: The Active Duty Voluntary Acquisition of Necessary Credentials for Employment (ADVANCE) Act which expands military CDL testing waivers to certain active-duty members of the U.S. Armed Services. Though Congress has already waived requirements for obtaining a CDL by some veterans, the current restrictions on active duty service members force many to wait until their service has been completed before they can use their military training to obtain a CDL, which can lead to gaps in employment. The Veterans Expanded Trucking Opportunities Act of 2017 which expands the number of medical professionals at the VA authorized to conduct DOT physicals for veterans and service members applying for a CDL. ###
06.23.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement after the President signed into law the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017. The newly signed, bipartisan legislation will increase accountability at the VA by allowing the Secretary to dismiss poorly performing employees and those who engage in misconduct while strengthening protections for whistleblowers who expose wrongdoing. “Today is a great day for our veterans,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “For too long, VA employees who weren’t performing up to the standards we expect have not been held accountable for their actions – allowing the quality of care for our veterans to collapse. The newly signed legislation is a huge victory for veterans that will restore accountability, improve care, and ensure our heroes are put first.”Background: From the Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs: The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act increases the VA’s authority to remove employees at all levels of the department, shortens the removal process and ensures an individual removed from the VA is not kept on the VA’s payroll while appealing that decision. It will also make it easier for the VA to remove poorly performing senior executives and replace them with qualified candidates. Additionally, any appeals by senior VA executives would no longer be brought before the Merit Systems Protection Board, but instead would be handled directly by the VA secretary under an expedited timeline. The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act will establish in law the newly created Office of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection within the VA. The legislation also includes a number of other provisions to hold employees accountable, including: Requires the VA to evaluate supervisors based on the protection of whistleblowers; Incentivizes managers to address poor performance and misconduct among employees by requiring the VA secretary to include this as part of the annual performance plan; Prohibits bonuses for employees who have been found guilty of wrongdoing; and Prohibits relocation expenses to employees who abuse the system. A one-page summary of the legislation can be found here. ###
06.22.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2353, the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act, to improve educational options for students nationwide. The bipartisan legislation will help many — especially young Americans — enter the workforce with practical knowledge and skills they need to compete for good-paying, in-demand jobs in industries critical to the nation’s economy. “Today’s in-demand jobs look vastly different from the jobs of even just a generation ago,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “Our economy is changing every day, so it’s critically important we update educational opportunities to match. Through enhanced career technical training options in high school and beyond, we can provide young workers with the tools and training they need to be workforce and career ready from day one. This bill will provide the most valuable tools we have to fight unemployment – training and education for jobs in high-demand fields. ” Background on the bill, courtesy of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce: Empowers state and local community leaders by simplifying the application process for receiving federal funds and providing more flexibility to use federal resources to respond to changing education and economic needs. Improves alignment with in-demand jobs by supporting innovative learning opportunities, building better community partnerships, and encouraging stronger engagement with employers. Increases transparency and accountability by streamlining performance measures to ensure career and technical education programs deliver results, empowering parents, students, and stakeholders with a voice in setting performance goals and evaluating the effectiveness of local programs. To read a PDF of the fact sheet, click here. To read a bill summary, click here.
06.19.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) led a group of lawmakers in a letter to Secretary Ben Carson, expressing concern over the agency's housing policies that are putting a tough strain on homeless shelters here in California and across the nation. In the letter, Congressman Issa is joined by fellow California Congressman Doug LaMalfa (R-CA), Chairman of the Republican Study Committee Mark Walker (R-NC), Chairman of the House Freedom Caucus Chairman Mark Meadows (R-NC), and 20 other members from across the nation. Under the Obama-era policy known as "Housing First," some of the nation's most successful programs for alleviating homelessness are being forced to choose between walking away from as much as $95,000 in federal funding or abandoning the models they've developed -- and had real success using -- to help get homeless Americans back on their feet. "This is one of the worst examples of Washington's we-know-better-than-you mentality and is just the kind of top-down mandates we need to be rid of," said Congressman Darrell Issa. "The Housing First approach may work for some, but it isn't - and can't be - the answer for all. This misguided policy has caused some of the most effective homeless assistance programs in our district to walk away from the funding they need to help families get back on their feet. At a time when homelessness in San Diego is among the highest in the nation and homeless rates here are still increasing, we should be doing all we can to empower more facilities, not less, to come together on this critical issue." “I’ve seen, firsthand, successful shelters in my district lose funding as a result of the Housing First approach, severely hindering their ability to house hard-working families who truly want to escape the cycle of homelessness," said Congressman Doug LaMalfa. "This model hurts independent housing programs who operate on a basis of sobriety, work, and education – which should be common sense. I hope Secretary Carson will review these flawed procedures and help promote programs that will encourage accountability and long-term benefits for families in need.” Text of the letter is included below. A signed copy is available here. June 13, 2017 The Honorable Ben Carson Secretary U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development 451 7th Street S.W. Washington, DC 20410 Dear Secretary Carson: We are writing to you to express our concerns about current U.S. Housing and Urban Development (HUD) policies and priorities regarding homelessness assistance. It has come to our attention that HUD’s current procedures in administering such assistance have put homeless families, youth, and children at risk, in addition to jeopardizing holistic-based programs that work to alleviate the effects of poverty by supporting sobriety, work, and accountability. As you know, in recent competitions for the Continuum of Care program, one of the program priorities articulated by HUD has been the “Housing First” approach, which focuses on providing immediate access to housing, prioritizing providers that offer services to clients on a voluntary basis, rather than those programs that require sobriety or participation in education, work, training, or service programs. Under this policy, HUD now gives considerable preference based on a program’s commitment to using the Housing First model, placing programs that do not use that model at a severe disadvantage in receiving financial assistance. By implementing its preference for the Housing First model, HUD has removed any incentive for independent housing programs to operate under a model that includes mandatory services, accountability, or sobriety. In doing this, the Department has effectively used its administrative and regulatory power to impose national priorities on communities, forcing communities and providers to maximize services for certain populations – chronically homeless adults – at the expense of other equally worthy populations – families, youth, and children – and particular program models, regardless of local circumstances, needs, or a program’s effectiveness to lift participants out of poverty. Communities as a whole, which benefit from having these programs, are now unfortunately and unfairly penalized by the elimination or decline of such programs. We strongly urge you to thoroughly review the Department’s procedures with respect to providing assistance to programs combatting homelessness and to appropriately exercise your authority in providing support for these types of programs that include families, youth, and children and the community-based program models that serve them well by enabling them to increase their incomes and educational attainment, maintain sobriety, and acquire permanent life skills that will help prevent them from returning to a life of homelessness. In order to support these families and their children, we also urge you to end the recommended scoring guidelines that currently punish programs that prioritize work, education, and sobriety. We believe that families have the best opportunity to escape dependence on public assistance when they are supported in their recovery and given education, training and work opportunities. We look forward to working with you to break the intergenerational cycle of family homelessness by promoting programs that serve families and provide safe and drug free housing. Should you have any questions, please feel free to contact Robert Rische in Congressman Issa’s office at (202) 225-3906 or robert.rische@mail.house.gov. Sincerely, Darrell Issa (CA-49) Don Bacon (NE-02) Andy Barr (KY-06) Mike Conaway (TX-11) Scott DesJarlais (TN-04) Trent Franks (AZ-08) Glenn Grothman (WI-06) Randy Hultgren (IL-14) Mike Johnson (LA-04) Doug LaMalfa (CA-01) Roger Marshall (KS-01) Mark Meadows (NC-11) Luke Messer (IN-06) Alex Mooney (WV-02) Gary Palmer (AL-06) Steve Pearce (NM-02) Robert Pittenger (NC-09) David Rouzer (NC-07) Steve Stivers (OH-15) Mark Walker (NC-06) Joe Wilson (SC-02) Ted Yoho (FL-03) Ted Budd (NC-13)
06.13.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives approved and sent to the President’s desk for his final signature, the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017. The bipartisan bill will increase accountability at the VA by allowing the Secretary to dismiss poorly-performing employees and those who engage in misconduct while strengthening protections for whistleblowers who expose wrongdoing. “This is incredible news for veterans,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “Step one for improving the experience at the VA is reforming its culture, but too often employees who aren’t living up to the standards we expect aren’t held accountable for their actions. This bill is an important measure that will help us crack down on bad employees who put veterans’ care at risk while protecting those who have the courage to speak up and cast light on wrongdoing. These are reforms we’ve been working to pass for years and I look forward to the President signing these long-overdue improvements." Background: From the Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs: The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act increases the VA’s authority to remove employees at all levels of the department, shortens the removal process and ensures an individual removed from the VA is not kept on the VA’s payroll while appealing that decision. It will also make it easier for the VA to remove poorly performing senior executives and replace them with qualified candidates. Additionally, any appeals by senior VA executives would no longer be brought before the Merit Systems Protection Board, but instead would be handled directly by the VA secretary under an expedited timeline. The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act will establish in law the newly created Office of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection within the VA. The legislation also includes a number of other provisions to hold employees accountable, including: Requires the VA to evaluate supervisors based on the protection of whistleblowers; Incentivizes managers to address poor performance and misconduct among employees by requiring the VA secretary to include this as part of the annual performance plan; Prohibits bonuses for employees who have been found guilty of wrongdoing; and Prohibits relocation expenses to employees who abuse the system. A one-page summary of the legislation can be found here. ###
06.13.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) is pressing the California Coastal Commission to move its upcoming August hearing on Southern California Edison’s plans to store the nuclear waste from the San Onofre Nuclear Generation Station on site, from their currently scheduled meeting location in Malibu to a location closer to San Diego and Orange Counties. The Commission recently announced it would be postponing its previously scheduled hearing on this topic until August and moving it from Monterey to Malibu, but the plan still leaves our community, who will be directly affected by plans to store the nuclear waste just off the beach in North County San Diego, potentially unable to attend or forced to drive more than 100 miles just to participate in this discussion.In his letter, Congressman Issa writes to the Commission: “My Congressional district is home to SONGS. The Station’s position near the populous Orange and San Diego Counties makes the storage of approximately 3.6 million pounds of high-level nuclear waste at SONGS a personal concern to this region… I strongly urge this meeting be relocated so that all in my community may have the chance to be heard.”So far, the California Coastal Commission has resisted efforts to move the meeting to a closer location claiming that, "moving the August meeting at this late date is not feasible," but given the level of public concern, there is still more than ample time to find a new location or to add a second hearing date in our area to give all the chance to weigh in. His Full Letter Can Be Read Here BACKGROUND: Congressman Issa has been leading the fight to get the nuclear waste at San Onofre removed from our community. Earlier this year he introduced the “Interim Consolidated Storage Act of 2017” which would allow the Department of Energy to move the nuclear waste away from San Onofre and into safe, interim consolidated nuclear storage facility outside of our community until the permanent repository at Yucca Mountain is completed. Congressman Issa’s bill is supported by the City of Encinitas, the San Diego County Board of Supervisors, the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce, and the Mayors of Oceanside, Huntington Beach, Laguna Beach, San Clemente and Seal Beach through the Concerned Coastal Communities Coalition and the Angeles Chapter of the Sierra Club. In May, the San Diego Union-Tribune reported that the California Coastal Commission would be postponing its hearing on this topic from July to August and moving it from Monterey to Malibu. The drive from San Onofre to Malibu is roughly 100 miles long.
06.12.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista), a member of the House Climate Solutions Caucus, released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives approved 10 bills aimed at improving the nation’s energy efficiency and energy infrastructure.“Producing more of our energy from low-cost, domestically available, clean sources, is key to securing both America’s energy independence and meeting our goals on climate change,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “The bills we approved today make great steps to create jobs and update America’s energy infrastructure while improving affordability, security, and safety for ratepayers.” “Of particular note, I want to congratulate Congressman Scott Peters on House passage of his HYPE Act to cut red tape on hydroelectric projects. The efforts today represent great bipartisan work on these important issues and I encourage their quick passage by our colleagues in the Senate.” The bills approved by the House today include: H.R. 338, to promote a 21st century energy and manufacturing workforce Authored by Energy Subcommittee Ranking Member Bobby Rush (D-IL) and committee member Rep. Richard Hudson (R-NC), would improve education and training for energy and manufacturing-related jobs, with an emphasis on increasing opportunities for women, veterans, and minorities. H.R. 446, to extend the deadline for commencement of construction of a hydroelectric project and H.R. 447, to extend the deadline for commencement of construction of a hydroelectric project Authored by committee member Rep. Morgan Griffith (R-VA), H.R. 446 and 447 would extend the licenses for the Gathright and Flannagan Dams. Construction of the dams would create jobs and provide affordable, and reliable electricity to their respective communities. H.R. 627, Streamlining Energy Efficiency for Schools Act of 2017 Would make it easier for schools to take advantage of federal programs to help them cut down on energy use. H.R. 951, to extend the deadline for commencement of construction of a hydroelectric project Would extend the license for the W. Kerr Scott Dam, creating jobs and providing affordable, reliable electricity to the respective community. H.R. 1109, to amend section 203 of the Federal Power Act Authored by committee member Rep. Tim Walberg (R-MI) would amend the Federal Power Act to expressly include a minimum monetary threshold of $10,000,000 for mergers and acquisitions of facilities subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). H.R. 2122, to reinstate and extend the deadline for commencement of construction of a hydroelectric project involving the Jennings Randolph Dam Authored by Congressman David McKinley (R-WV), H.R. 2122 would authorize FERC to extend the time period during which the licensee is required to commence the construction of the Jennings Randolph Dam. Construction of the dam would create jobs and provide affordable, reliable electricity to the respective community. H.R. 2274, HYdropower Permit Extension (HYPE) Act Authored by committee member Rep. Scott Peters (D-CA), H.R. 2274 would allow FERC to extend permits for construction of hydroelectric projects H.R. 2292, to extend a project of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission involving the Cannonsville Dam Would extend the license of the Cannonsville Dam. Construction of the dam would create jobs and provide affordable, reliable electricity to the respective community. H.R. 2457, J. Bennett Johnston Waterway Hydropower Extension Act of 2017 Would authorize FERC to extend the license of construction for the J. Bennett Johnston Waterway Dam. Construction of the dam would create jobs and provide affordable, reliable electricity to the respective community. ###
06.08.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), former Chairman of the House Committee for Oversight and Government Reform, released the following statement after Congressman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) was selected to succeed Congressman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) as Chairman. “Trey has my absolute faith and confidence,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “I’ve had the pleasure of working with him closely since he first arrived in Congress and time and time again he’s shown a tenacious, unyielding passion for truth, accountability and following the facts where they lead. He’s a capable leader, a trusted colleague, and I know that under his direction, the Committee will be in good hands to ensure accountability, promote transparency, and continue holding our government leaders to a higher standard.” ###
06.08.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives approved the Financial CHOICE Act (H.R. 10) which repeals many of the most onerous provisions of the Obama Administration’s Dodd-Frank Act:“Years of too-big-to-fail and taxpayer-funded bailouts are coming to an end,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “The Financial CHOICE Act will restore sanity to our financial sector and curbs Dodd-Frank regulatory overreach which has become an enormous barrier to economic recovery. Dodd-Frank has allowed big banks to grow bigger, small banks to become fewer and failed to make our financial sector any safer. The Financial CHOICE Act will help small businesses better access the capital they need to grow and create jobs, increase accountability in both Washington and Wall Street, and I applaud its passage today in the House of Representatives.” Key Provisions of the Financial CHOICE Act: Ends “Too Big To Fail” and bank bailouts Imposes the “toughest penalties in history for financial fraud” Holds both Washington regulators and Wall Street bankers accountable Increases transparency for banks and financial sector Restructures the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and other regulators to ensure they are best suited to serve their purpose and are accountable to both Congress and to the American people Reduces federal deficits by $24 billion Provides regulatory relief to small and community banks Helps small business and job creators better obtain access to the capital they need to grow jobs A detailed summary from the House Financial Services Committee is available here. ###
05.26.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) and Congressman Collin Peterson (D-Minn.) released the following statements after introducing bipartisan legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives to make it easier for members of the United States Military to participate in the democratic process. The Bringing All Servicemembers Equality in Voting Act (The BASE Voting Act, H.R. 2694) would allow active-duty members of the U.S. Armed Forces the freedom to vote at their current duty station in the community where they live and serve, instead of at their "home of record." The bill was introduced with the support 10 co-sponsors including Rep. Charlie Crist (D-Fla.), Rep. Doug LaMalfa (R-Calif.), Rep. Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), Rep. Charlie Dent (R-Pa.), Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas), Rep. Susan Brooks (Ind.), Rep. Jim Banks (Ind.), Rep. Warren Davidson (R-Ohio), and Rep. Neal Dunn (R-Fla.). Congressman Darrell Issa: “Members of the military have long been disenfranchised from voting in the community they live and serve by restrictions that fail to take into account the unique set of challenges presented by the transitory experience of a military member’s service. Men and women in uniform send their kids to school, coach little league, go to PTA meetings, use their local parks and roads, yet are often discouraged from being able to participate in the democratic process in those very same areas. This important piece of legislation will remove unnecessary barriers that limit participation in one of their most fundamental rights in our democracy, which they've already given so much to preserve and defend.” Congressman Peterson: “American servicemembers commit their lives towards protecting our country and its freedoms. On many occasions, these brave men and women are required to relocate to other parts of the country as well as the world, which can restrict their right to vote. I am hopeful this bill will assist military members with the right to participate in the democracy they help protect.”
05.26.2017	NOTE: "There's still more to be done. This bill is going to be about compromise, and a down payment on change," Issa said.Rep. Darrell Issa Says The Federal Employee Insurance Program Should Be Expanded To All AmericansLos Angeles Times May 25, 2017 By: Sarah Wirehttp://lat.ms/2s57dBe Though it wasn't included in the House Republicans' healthcare bill, Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista) still believes Americans should have access to the same insurance plans federal employees pick from, and he's hoping the Senate will embrace the idea. In a letter Thursday, Issa asked the Senate Health Care Working Group to consider opening the Federal Employee Health Benefits Program to more, or all, Americans. It's a national insurance idea that's persisted since the program began in 1960, and a proposal Issa has pitched before. The program allows more than 8 million current and retired federal employees across the country to shop among hundreds of health insurance plans and then apply their employer contribution to whatever plan they choose. Private insurance companies have pulled out of several state insurance marketplaces, where people whose employers don't offer insurance can purchase insurance using a federal subsidy. That leaves people with fewer health insurance choices, a common complaint cited by Republicans as a reason to repeal the Affordable Care Act. “It’s choice. If the government can maximize choice to you and then subsidize where appropriate based on need, then we’ve met the two bases for government involvement,” Issa said. Issa voted for the American Health Care Act, the GOP bill to roll back much of Obamacare that passed May 4 without Democratic support, but he stresses that he did so just to keep momentum. “One of the reasons I voted for this in the House was to keep the process alive so we could do reform,” Issa said. “Leveraging business models that work is the goal that somebody like me wants to do. Find out what works and invest in it, find out what doesn’t work and fix it or abandon it.” On Thursday, the Congressional Budget Office said the bill as passed by the House would cause 23 million fewer people to have health insurance by 2026. The budget office, which Congress relies on to analyze the complex legislation, projected that many additional consumers would see skimpier health coverage and higher deductibles. The Senate has essentially said it will write its own version of the bill. Issa's letter to his Senate colleagues also urges members to protect people with preexisting conditions, safeguard coverage for people with mental illnesses and protect people near retirement age from a spike in their premiums. "There's still more to be done. This bill is going to be about compromise, and a down payment on change," Issa said. ###
05.24.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed 7 bills to improve care, benefits and service to the nation’s veterans. “No commitment is more important than the commitments we’ve given to our men and women in uniform,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “These bills ensure veterans will have timely access to quality health care, help disabled veterans better make ends meet, provide speedier resolution for the benefits appeals process and increase the level of service at the VA. After giving so much for our country, our veterans deserve the highest quality of care. I’m proud of the work we’ve done today and encourage the Senate to quickly pass these bills and send them to the President’s desk as soon as possible.” The bills passed include the: H.R. 467: The VA Scheduling Accountability Act The VA Scheduling Accountability Act would require VA medical center directors to certify annually that their facility is in compliance with the scheduling directive (or any successor directive that replaces it), prohibit VA from waiving certification, and require VA to report to Congress on individual medical facilities’ compliance. Click here for more information. Read the bill here. H.R. 1005: "To improve the provision of adult day health care services for veterans" H.R. 1005 would direct VA to enter into an agreement or a contract with state veterans homes to pay for adult day health care for a veteran eligible for, but not receiving, nursing home care. Click here for more information. Read the bill here. H.R. 1162: The No Hero Left Untreated Act The No Hero Left Untreated Act would require VA to carry out a one-year pilot program at up to two VA medical facilities to provide access to magnetic EEG/EKG-guided resonance therapy to veterans with PTSD, TBI, MST, chronic pain or opiate addiction for up to 50 veterans. Click here for more information. Read the bill here. H.R. 1329: The Veterans’ Compensation COLA Act of 2017 The Veterans Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2017 would increase the rates of compensation for veterans with service-connected disabilities as well as the rates of dependency and indemnity compensation for the survivors of certain disabled veterans as of December 1st, 2017. Click here for more information. Read the bill here. H.R. 2288: The Veterans Appeals Improvement and Modernization Act of 2017 The Veterans Appeals Improvement and Modernization Act of 2017 would modernize the appeals process at the Department of Veterans Affairs. Click here for more information. Read the bill here. H.R. 1545: The VA Prescription Data Accountability Act The VA Prescription Data Accountability Act would clarify current law to stipulate that VHA is required to disclose information to state controlled substance monitoring programs for anyone – veteran or non-veteran – who is prescribed these medications through VA. Click here for more information. Read the bill here. H.R. 1725: The Quicker Veterans Benefits Delivery Act of 2017 The Quicker Veterans Benefits Delivery Act of 2017 as amended, seeks to reduce the number of unnecessary disability examinations by requiring additional information be provided to Congress regarding VA’s use of private medical evidence in support of claims for disability compensation. Click here for more information. Read the bill here. ###
05.23.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after introducing a bipartisan resolution condemning the violence and persecution of gay men in Chechnya with fellow colleagues Chairman Ed Royce (R-Calif.), and Reps. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla.), Eliot Engel (D-NY), David Cicilline (D-RI), and Chris Smith (R-NJ).Since April, reports have surfaced that Chechnya has been arresting and murdering hundreds of gay men solely on the basis of their suspected sexual orientation. Reports also surfaced earlier this week that "Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov plans to 'eliminate' the country’s gay community by the start of Ramadan," according to a British foreign minister. The full text of the resolution is available here.Congressman Darrell Issa: "These heinous violations of basic human rights cannot be tolerated against anyone, regardless of their political viewpoints, religious beliefs or their sexual orientation. The reports coming out of this crisis have been utterly disturbing. The United States must use our leadership on the world stage to call out these atrocities, urge that those responsible for perpetrating this violence are held to account, and ultimately bring these acts to an end. The Resolution we've introduced today makes clear to Putin, Kadyrov and Chechen authorities that these injustices will not be tolerated." Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen: “For over a month, hundreds of gay or perceived to be gay Chechens have been arrested, many have been tortured, and some even killed. This bipartisan resolution sends a clear message to Chechnya and Russia authorities and any oppressor that the U.S. will not stand idly while these human rights atrocities are being committed. The U.S. government needs to continue to speak up to help those who are being indiscriminately targeted, and we must pressure Russia to uphold its international commitment to prevent any further abuses from happening while perpetrators are brought to justice.” Congressman Engel: “We’ve heard chilling reports of authorities in Chechnya detaining, torturing, and even killing men from the LGBT community over the last several weeks. We are witnessing the unfolding of a horrific tragedy and it’s long past time that the Kremlin start protecting its own citizens—all of them—regardless of sexual orientation. That’s why I introduced this bipartisan resolution with my colleagues—to send a clear signal that Republicans and Democrats alike call on President Putin to respect and promote the dignity of all persons and provide safe haven for all those fleeing such horrific persecution.”
05.23.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) today introduced H. Con. Res. 59, a Congressional resolution to commemorate the 75th Anniversary of the Marine Corps Base at Camp Pendleton. The resolution will give official recognition to honor the service, dedication, and sacrifice of our Armed Service Members and their families currently and formerly stationed at the base. The resolution was introduced with bipartisan support from 29 of his colleagues, including the entire San Diego Congressional delegation. Following the resolution’s introduction earlier today, Congressman Issa released the following statement: “Camp Pendleton has played an integral role in our community over the last 75 years,” said Congressman Darrell Issa, “and on this important anniversary, I want to ensure the brave men and women who’ve served at Camp Pendleton are recognized for their bravery and sacrifice to our nation. These selfless individuals and their families have given so much to make our community here in San Diego, and across the nation safer and stronger. It’s our responsibility, even in such a small way, to give back to them for all they’ve done for us.” The Congressional Resolution introduced today by Congressman Darrell Issa: Recognizes the fighting force of the 1st Marine Expeditionary Force, all major commands and members who currently serve aboard Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton. Commends the brave service members who deployed from Camp Pendleton to fight in World War II, Korean War, Vietnam, Kuwait, Iraq, and Afghanistan Reaffirms its commitment to continue to honor the memory of Camp Pendleton and its critical role in the security of our Nation. The text of the resolution is available here. Background: President Franklin D. Roosevelt dedicated the base on September 25, 1942, in honor of World War I Major General Joseph H. Pendleton. The first troops to occupy Camp Pendleton was the 9th Marine Regiment with the 1st Battalion, 12th Marines, who marched north from Camp Elliott in San Diego to Camp Pendleton. In 1944, Camp Pendleton was named a ‘‘permanent installation’’ and became the home of the 1st Marine Division in 1946. Camp Pendleton is the Marine Corps largest West Coast expeditionary training facility, encompassing more than 125,000 acres of Southern California terrain. The Base has a daytime population of 70,000 military and civilian personnel, with more than 38,000 military family members occupying base housing complexes. ###
05.22.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista), Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee for Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet, and the holder of 37 patents, released the following statement after the United States Supreme Court today decided 8-0 in TC Heartland to limit venue-shopping in patent-infringement lawsuits. “Today’s decision is a major, long-overdue victory for the integrity of our patent system. As a patent holder and a former small business owner myself, I know first-hand how harmful and expensive this predatory litigation can be for American entrepreneurs. Instead of investing to hire new workers or expand their products, many are forced to spend millions defending the rights to their own intellectual property in court – often thousands of miles away in a venue cherry-picked for its favorability to the plaintiffs. I’m glad to see the Court deliver a sweeping rebuke to the patent trolls who regularly prey on our nation’s innovators and stand up for the patent-holders who need protection from these frivolous lawsuits.”
05.22.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista), a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed 6 pieces of legislation to prevent the abuse and exploitation of children. “Child predators, human traffickers and those who do harm to our children must be brought to justice. Plain and simple,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “More can and must be done to fight these terrible crimes. These bills go after sex offenders, help fight child pornography, give new tools to combat human trafficking and punish the perpetrators of these heinous acts. I applaud the bills’ passage and look forward to continuing the fight to protect our children." The bills passed today include: H.R. 1188 -- Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act of 2017 which reauthorizes the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act and Sex Offender Management Assistance Program for five years and makes targeted changes to increase the efficiency of these programs. H.R. 1862 - Global Child Protection Act of 2017 which combats global sex tourism by closing loopholes that allow child predators to go unpunished for their abuse of children overseas. H.R. 1842 - Strengthening Children’s Safety Act of 2017 which makes communities safer by enhancing penalties for sex offenders who fail to register in the national sex offender registry when they have a prior state conviction for a violent crime. H.R. 883 - Targeting Child Predators Act of 2017 which protects valuable information used to investigate, prosecute and convict child predators online. H.R. 695 - Child Protection Improvements Act of 2017 which ensures that youth-serving organizations have access to national background checks on prospective staff and volunteers through the FBI’s database. Currently, many youth-serving organizations only have access to state-level background check systems. H.R. 1625 - TARGET Act allows the State Department to use cash rewards to help bring human traffickers to justice. ###
05.17.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Justice appointed special counsel to oversee the federal investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election. Congressman Darrell Issa was the one of the first House Republicans to call for the appointment of an independent investigator on Real Time with Bill Maher back in February. “It’s time to get to the bottom of this,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “I’ve been pressing the DOJ to take this step for nearly 3 months because Americans deserve nothing less than the truth. I have faith that Robert Mueller will provide the independence necessary to be sure this investigation is conducted with the trust and confidence of the American people.” ###
05.16.2017	Support continues to build for legislation authored by Congressman Darrell Issa that would allow the nuclear waste at San Onofre to be moved from our community and into safe storage. In a letter dated May 10, Encinitas Mayor Catherine Blakespear writes expressing the City's support for the Interim Consolidated Storage Act (H.R. 474). Calling H.R. 474 a "common sense" solution, Mayor Blakespear writes, "Situated in close proximity between the Pacific Ocean and Interstate 5, the results of a radioactive leak at SONGS would be devastating. Nuclear generating stations were not designed for long-term storage of SNF and the sooner the SNF is removed, the lower the chances of an on-site leak. The City of Encinitas supports H.R. 474 and looks forward to the swift passage of this bill." The City's Full Letter Can Be Read Here Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) responded to the City's endorsement saying, "Long ago, the federal government made a promise to take this waste. I intend to keep them to their word. I'm proud to have the support of the City and so many others in our community for this important piece of legislation. I look forward to continuing to fight on this issue and ensure this waste gets moved and into safe storage as quickly as possible." The City of Encinitas is the latest to express support for the legislation joining other groups which have included the San Diego County Board of Supervisors, the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce, and the Mayors of Oceanside, Huntington Beach, Laguna Beach, San Clemente and Seal Beach through the Concerned Coastal Communities Coalition and the Angeles Chapter of the Sierra Club. BACKGROUND: On January 12, 2017 - Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) and Chairman Mike Conaway (TX-11) introduced a bill that would pave a path forward for storage of the nation's nuclear waste. The Interim Consolidated Storage Act would allow the Department of Energy to use interest from the Nuclear Waste Fund to contract temporary storage facilities for spent nuclear fuel and could have the federal government begin collecting waste from nuclear facilities across the country in as little as 5 years. ###
05.09.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa released the following statement on the President's decision to fire FBI director James Comey. Congressman Darrell Issa was among the first of his house colleagues to call for an independent investigation into Russia. “From Director Comey’s botched efforts to obtain a backdoor into American’s digital privacy, to his mishandling of one of the most politically sensitive investigations in a lifetime, Director Comey had lost my confidence long ago. Democrats and Republicans alike have called for his ouster, and new leadership at the FBI will restore confidence in the agency. With much important work to be done, we now must immediately appoint a replacement who can have the trust of the American people to carry out the duties of the FBI independently, impartially, and free of political influence.” – Congressman Darrell Issa ###
05.04.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives approved legislation to repeal and replace Obamacare. The bill now heads to the Senate. “Today, we made good on our promise to repeal and replace Obamacare,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “Let's stop pretending Obamacare is going to fix itself or that somehow, someday, it’s going to get better. Today's vote gives a voice to the victims of Obamacare, the millions of Americans who are paying higher premiums, receiving less coverage and for whom the status quo offered no end in sight. Obamacare is doing real harm to California's families and struggling businesses, and constituents are counting on me to deliver real relief. Obamacare was a failure from the get-go. Now is the time to make it right." ###
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.— U.S. Representatives Yvette Clarke (D-N.Y.), Suzan DelBene (D-Wash.), Bill Flores (R-Texas), Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) and Ted Lieu (D-Calif.) have formed and will serve as co-chairs of Congressional Caucus on Virtual, Augmented and Mixed Reality Technologies for the 115th Congress. The co-chairs released the following joint statement regarding formation of the caucus: “We are proud to announce the launch of the Congressional Caucus on Virtual, Augmented and Mixed Reality Technologies. As these technologies continue to advance and grow, this ‘Reality Caucus’ will work to foster information sharing between Congress and our nation’s world-leading technology industry. These technologies have shown tremendous potential for innovation in the fields of entertainment, education and healthcare. As these technologies develop, questions will inevitably rise in privacy, intellectual property and other areas. This is an opportunity to educate our colleagues and others to ensure Congress is doing all it can to encourage – rather than hinder – these enterprising fields. We look forward to working with our colleagues on both sides of the aisle to help support innovation and address the challenges posed by this emerging sector.” The Congressional Caucus on Virtual, Augmented and Mixed Reality Technologies will work to promote the advancing technologies of virtual reality, augmented reality and mixed reality to Members of Congress and their teams. ###
05.02.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after the House of Representatives approved the Working Families Flexibility Act of 2017. The bill gives workers additional flexibility to help better balance family and workplace needs by allowing private-sector employers to offer their employees the choice between cash or paid-time-off for overtime hours - a benefit permitted under the Fair Labor Standards Act for government employers, but prohibited for private-sector employers. “Working parents – especially those with young children – know that time is a most precious resource. We can’t legislate another hour into the day, but we can give working families options to help balance the needs of work and family. This common-sense bill is good for families and employers. Business owners know that flexibility helps build a happier and more productive workforce.” - Congressman Darrell Issa. BACKGROUND: Since 1938, the Fair Labor Standards Act has mandated all private-sector overtime wages be payable in cash. In 1985, Congress enacted a revision to the Fair Labor Standards Act that allows public-sector employers the opportunity to offer paid-time-off for overtime but left similar arrangements off-limits to private sector employees. The Working Families Flexibility Act of 2017 would update the Fair Labor Standards Act to give private-sector employers flexibility to offer employees the option to choose whether they'd like to earn extra cash or additional paid-time-off for overtime hours. Among its provisions, the bill would: Allow employers to offer employees a choice between cash wages and comp time for overtime hours worked. Employees who want to receive cash wages would continue to do so. No employee can be forced to take comp time instead of receiving cash wages. Protect employees by requiring employers who decide to offer this option to their employees by requiring them to establish a written agreement with the employee outlining the options and to allow each employee to voluntarily choose the option that best fits his needs. Retains all existing employee protections in current law, including the 40-hour work week and how overtime compensation is accrued. The bill adds additional safeguards for workers to ensure the choice and use of comp time are truly voluntary. Allows employees to accrue up to 160 hours of comp time each year. An employer would be required to pay cash wages at the overtime rate of time-and-a-half for any unused time at the end of the year. Workers are free to ‘cash out’ their accrued comp time whenever they choose to do so. Prohibit employers from intimidating, coercing or forcing employees to accept comp time instead of cash wages. Those in violation of the law would entitle employees to double the amount of the wages owed. Require the nonpartisan Government Accountability Office to report to Congress on the extent private-sector employers and employees are using comp time, as well as the number of complaints filed with and enforcement actions taken by the U.S. Department of Labor. Additional information on the bill is available here. ###
05.01.2017	Support continues to build for legislation authored by Congressman Darrell Issa that would allow the nuclear waste at San Onofre to be moved from our community and into consolidated, temporary storage facilities. In a recent letter, the Angeles Chapter of the Sierra Club (which serves San Diego and Orange Counties) lays out the need for federal legislation like Darrell Issa’s bipartisan Interim Consolidated Storage Act. The Full Document Is Available Here The Sierra Club is the latest organization to express support for the bill, following recent endorsements by the San Diego County Board of Supervisors, the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce, and the Mayors of Oceanside, Huntington Beach, Laguna Beach, San Clemente and Seal Beach through the Concerned Coastal Communities Coalition. BACKGROUND: On January 12, 2017 - Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) and Chairman Mike Conaway (TX-11) introduced a bill that would pave a path forward for storage of the nation's nuclear waste. The Interim Consolidated Storage Act would allow the Department of Energy to use interest from the Nuclear Waste Fund to contract temporary storage facilities for spent nuclear fuel and could have the federal government begin collecting waste from nuclear facilities across the country in as little as 5 years. ###
05.01.2017	On Friday, the staff of Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) met with faculty and students from Bonsall West Elementary School to deliver new books secured by Congressman Issa for their school library. The donated books will provide students with new and challenging reading materials and encourage opportunities for out-of-classroom learning. The Congressman secured the books through the Library of Congress Surplus Book Donation Program, which makes books available to certain non-profit and educational organizations. Photos and video from the event are available here. Congressman Issa released the following statement: “I am glad to have the opportunity to donate books to our young scholars at Bonsall West Elementary of Oceanside,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “Many school libraries are not able to replenish their collections with new books throughout the year, so I am happy to make this small gesture to promote reading in our schools. I encourage all libraries in the 49th District to contact my Washington, D.C. office to see if we can help build your catalog through this program.” Students at Bonsall West Say "Thank You" To Congressman Issa for the Books He Secured for their School Library The Library of Congress Surplus Books Program allows members of Congress to request surplus books from the Library to distribute at eligible non-profit organizations to expand their publicly accessible collections. The books span a variety of genres, including children’s books, fiction, non-fiction, reference books, textbooks, test-prep books and many others. The books donated are hand-selected based on each receiving library’s individual suggestions and needs. Organizations in California's 49th district interested in receiving donations can submit requests to Congressman Issa by contacting his Washington office. According to Library of Congress policy, eligible organizations must be located in the United States and fall into one of the following categories: Full-time, tax-supported or nonprofit educational institution: school, school system, college, university, museum, or public library; Agency of local, state, or federal government; or Nonprofit institution or organization that has tax-exempt status under the provisions of section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code and that operates a library and/or research center open to the public. Congressman Issa will be reaching out to dozens of organizations and anticipates many more will be donated by the end of the year. ###
04.26.2017	Today, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) reintroduced the First Responders Passport Act which would allow the Secretary of State to waive passport fees for certain American first responders making trips abroad in a natural disaster response effort. The bill was introduced with the support of Congresswoman Barbara Comstock (R-Va.), Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-Pa.), House Committee on Foreign Affairs Chairman Ed Royce (R-Calif.), and 14 additional co-sponsors. Congressman Darrell Issa: “American generosity is made evident through the good hearts of compassionate Americans who answer the call to respond to natural disasters around the world. Our first responders often travel thousands of miles to assist foreign communities in the aftermath of hurricanes, earthquakes, and other catastrophes. This legislation makes these selfless journeys a little easier by waiving passport fees for those headed to provide aid and by ensuring they are always ready to render life-saving help to those in need.” Chairman Ed Royce: “Every year, brave Americans, including from Los Angeles county, volunteer to respond to disasters around the world. These heroes should not be deterred by fees and red tape. This bill, which passed the House overwhelmingly last Congress, will provide a small but important benefit for those first responders, and I hope to see it become law.” Congressman Brendan Boyle: “First responders continuously put their lives on the line at home and abroad. Every year, Americans bravely go abroad to help victims of natural disasters in foreign countries. This is an example of true American leadership. Their bravery and efforts do not go unnoticed. We should do all we can to make their endeavors easier. This is why I am proud to join Congressman Issa in introducing the First Responders Passport Act.”Congresswoman Barbara Comstock: “Fairfax County is home to the elite Virginia Task Force 1 which has been deployed overseas over thirty times traveling thousands of miles to help those who are in need after disaster has struck. This smart legislation will help ease the burden of these dedicated first responders so they do not have to pay passport fees as they are deployed overseas. I was honored to welcome home Virginia’s Task Force 1 on their last international deployment when a devastating earthquake hit Nepal. Members of Virginia Task Force 1 are wonderful ambassadors for the Commonwealth and our country who have saved many lives around the world.” Full text of the legislation can be read here.
04.25.2017	Today, Congressmen Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Brad Schneider (D-IL) introduced bipartisan legislation to help increase the number of doctors available to work in underserved and rural areas. The bill would extend and expand the Conrad 30 Waiver program which allows doctors here from abroad to remain in the U.S. upon completing their medical residency under the condition that they practice in underserved areas for at least three years. According to estimates, the United States could face shortages for as many as 100,000 physicians by 2030.Congressman Darrell Issa: “At a time when so many communities both here in California and across the country are facing shortages of much-needed physicians, it’s never been more important to provide opportunities for top-notch physicians from around the world to stay here in America and help fill these needs. The bill we’ve introduced extends and improves the Conrad 30 program to provide care where it’s needed most. If signed into law, the bill would be a big win for small and rural areas, underserved communities within larger states like California, and the patients who will have improved access to world-class care where they live.” Congressman Brad Schneider: “The American medical education system attracts top international talent and produces the best-trained graduates in the world. It makes no sense to force these highly-skilled new doctors out of the country at a time when many of our communities struggle to attract medical professionals. Extending the Conrad 30 visa waiver program is a commonsense step toward ensuring all Americans have access to quality health care providers.” Under current law, international medical students using a J-1 visa to study in the United States are required to return to their country of origin for two years upon completion of their medical residency before they are eligible to apply for a green card or visa. The Conrad 30 program waives this return requirement for a limited number of new physicians each year that agree to work three years in an underserved area of the United States. The Conrad State 30 & Physician Access Act, reauthorizes the program, which is set to expire on April 28, until 2021. The legislation also expands the program by providing a path to increase the number of waivers available to states, allowing the program to expand beyond the current allotment of 30 waivers per state if certain requirements are met. The Conrad State 30 & Physician Access Act has been endorsed by the American Medical Association, the California Medical Association, the American Hospital Association, and the Association of American Medical Colleges. A one-pager on the bill is available here. The full text of the legislation is available here. A Senate version of the bill, S.898, was introduced by Sens. Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Susan Collins (R-ME), and Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND). ###
04.14.2017	A bipartisan delegation of House members led by Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) returned home from a week meeting with the United State's regional partners in the Middle East including leaders in Egypt, Jordan, and Lebanon. Photos and video from the trip are the available here The trip included stops at refugee camps in Zahle and Azraq as well as a UNHCR refugee registration center in Amman. It was an opportunity to meet with Syrian refugees and see the impact of the crisis first-hand. US Representatives Arriving at a UNHCR Refugee Camp In Egypt, the delegation met with Egyptian President Al-Sisi to discuss strengthening the US-Egypt relationship and to foster collaboration in confronting the threat of ISIS and other extremist groups. They also attended Palm Sunday Mass with the U.S. troops deployed in the Sinai before conducting a roundtable on economic development with top government officials and representatives from Egyptian industries. Representative Issa Meets with Troops Stationed in the Sinai as part of the Multinational Force and Observers In Lebanon, the delegation met with the Lebanese Minister of Education before visiting area schools and a refugee camp in Zahle. Schools have been some of the most-impacted resources by the refugee crisis. As many as 2/3 of refugees receive no schooling at all and, as the U.N. reports, "in Lebanon, there are more school-age refugees than the entire intake of the country's public schools" which has forced many schools to literally run around the clock in multiple shifts to accommodate as many students as possible. Members also visited the Marine Memorial and laid flowers to pay homage to the servicemen killed in Lebanon in the '83 Beirut barracks bombing. Later, they met with Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri to discuss continued US support for Lebanon and efforts to help maintain stability in the country. Reps. Issa and Vargas Speak with US Marines at the Memorial of the Beirut Bombings in Lebanon In Jordan, the US Representatives met with Prime Minister Hani Al-Mulki and other key officials to enhance ties between our two nations and gain valuable insight into challenges presented by regional turmoil and the continuing refugee crisis there as well. Afterward, they traveled to the UNHCR refugee registration center in Amman and visited with displaced families at the Azraq refugee camp. Representative Issa meets with the Prime Minister of Jordan The bipartisan delegation included Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Congressman Juan Vargas (D-Calif.), Congresswoman Claudia Tenney (R-N.Y.) and Congresswoman Barbara Comstock (R-Va.).Congressman Darrell Issa said, "I'm grateful to have had the opportunity to see the impact of the refugee crisis first-hand and for the chance to continue a dialogue with our partners throughout the Middle East on how we can address these challenges head on. The world is facing the largest refugee crisis of our era and it needs Americas' leadership. I look forward to continuing work with the international community, our allies, and partners the Middle East to restore stability and work together towards our common goal of eliminating the threat of ISIS and radical terror."
04.09.2017	CAIRO, Egypt – U.S. Representatives Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Juan Vargas (D-Calif.), Barbara Comstock (R-Va.) and Claudia Tenney (R-N.Y.) released the following statement from their CODEL in the Middle East in response to the bombings at churches in Egypt this morning: “We are sickened and horrified at the attacks that occurred this morning in Egypt, targeting innocent worshippers as they gathered to celebrate one of the holiest days of the Christian faith. Our thoughts, prayers and deepest condolences are with all those affected by this despicable act of terrorism. The United States must continue working with our allies and partners in the international community to bring a swift end to ISIS and these continuing acts of violence across the world. Egypt is one of our most crucial partners in that fight. Yesterday, we met with President Al-Sisi to discuss how to foster better collaboration as we work together on our common interests of destroying ISIS, Al-Qaeda, and other terrorist groups killing innocent civilians here, across the Middle East, the U.S., and throughout the world. We will continue working together to address these threats and defeat terrorism once and for all.” The US Representatives met with President Al-Sisi yesterday during meetings in Cairo as the first-stop of a bipartisan Congressional delegation trip to the Middle East focused on strengthening relationships with strategic partners and fostering cooperation in the fight against ISIS. The trip includes Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Congressman Juan Vargas (D-Calif.), Congresswoman Barbara Comstock (R-Va.) and Congresswoman Claudia Tenney (R-N.Y.). ###
04.07.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), a senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following in response to the US airstrikes in Syria: “Assad’s vicious and brutal conduct cannot continue to go unanswered, and the President’s strategic response is the appropriate one. In every way, American leadership is needed right now, and this is the time to work closely with our allies around the world and in the Middle East – as well as the international community – to achieve what the previous administration did not: constructive engagement to deal responsibly with the crisis in Syria.”
04.05.2017	Today, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee for Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet along with Rep. Ted Deutch (D-Fla.) – a member of the Subcommittee – introduced bipartisan legislation that would fix a decades-old inequity in copyright law that allows terrestrial radio stations to play music without compensating performers. H.R 1914, the Performance Royalty Owners of Music Opportunity To Earn Act of 2017 (PROMOTE Act) would allow performing artists to opt out of having their music played on the radio if the performing artist is not being paid an agreed-upon performance royalty. Click Here to Get Full Bill Text Congressman Issa: “The PROMOTE Act calls the bluff of both sides in the debate over performance rights. The terrestrial stations playing these works without compensating the artists argue that airtime provides exposure and promotional value, while the artists argue the status-quo allows radio stations to profit on artists' performances without providing any due compensation. Our bill puts forward a workable solution that would allow those who would otherwise be paid a performance right to opt out of allowing broadcasters to play their music if they feel they’re not being appropriately compensated. This is a win-win that helps solve this decades' long problem in a way that’s fair to both parties." Congressman Deutch: “We have been told for years that AM/FM radio provides valuable promotion to recording artists, but those artists have never been given the opportunity to decide for themselves. It should be the artist’s choice whether to offer their music for free in exchange for promotional play, or to instead opt out of the unpaid use of their music. I am proud to join my colleague Rep. Issa in introducing the PROMOTE Act to give recording artists more control over their work.” ###
04.05.2017	Today Reps. Darrell Issa, former Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, introduced the bipartisan, bicameral Fair Chance Act that would give formerly incarcerated Americans a fair chance at obtaining employment with the federal government. Senator Booker introduced the companion bill in the Senate. Congressman Darrell Issa: “The best way to prevent people from returning to lives of crime is to ensure that those leaving the criminal justice system have reasonable opportunities to become productive members of society. Unfortunately, the current system makes it difficult for those trying to turn their lives around to find jobs or other opportunities to move forward. Regardless of their skills or qualifications, they’re often passed over for employment and are forced to pay for their mistakes long after they’ve done their time. The message we inadvertently end up sending is that those who commit a crime will never be given a second chance. The Fair Chance Act, which we’re introducing today, will go a long way in helping to break the cycle of crime, restoring hope, and giving many Americans opportunities to turn their lives around.” Congressman Elijah Cummings: “For far too long, millions of formerly incarcerated Americans have been met with obstacles that prevent them from re-entering society in a productive way. Now is the time to break that cycle. I strongly urge my colleagues to support this bipartisan legislation that will build on previous steps taken at the local, state, and federal level to give these individuals a fair chance to contribute to society.”The Fair Chance Act would: - ban the federal government—including the executive, legislative, and judicial branches—from requesting criminal history information from applicants until they reach the conditional offer stage; - prohibit federal contractors from requesting criminal history information from candidates for positions within the scope of federal contracts until the conditional offer stage; - include important exceptions for positions related to law enforcement and national security duties, positions requiring access to classified information, and positions for which access to criminal history information before the conditional offer stage is required by law; and - require the Department of Labor, Census Bureau, and Bureau of Justice Statistics to issue a report on the employment statistics of formerly incarcerated individuals. Cummings and Issa led the House introduction of the bipartisan, bicameral Fair Chance Act in the 114th Congress, and Senators Cory Booker (D-NJ) and Ron Johnson (R-WI) introduced the bill in the Senate. Less than four weeks after introduction, the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, chaired by Johnson, marked up and passed the bill unanimously. In May of last year, Cummings and more than 70 Members of the House sent a letter to President Obama urging him to adopt “ban the box” hiring policies in the federal government, and in November, the Office of Personnel Management issued a final rule promoting fair chance hiring policies. Due in part to significant grassroots efforts across the country, states and cities have been implementing Ban the Box policies to help people with criminal records overcome the barrier to employment of having to “check the box” on job applications. Eighteen states and more than 100 cities and counties have taken action, and companies such as Walmart, Koch Industries, Target, Home Depot, Starbucks, and Bed, Bath & Beyond have also embraced Ban the Box policies.
04.04.2017	Today, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee for Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet along with Senator Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) - member and former Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee -- introduced bipartisan legislation to reduce the cost of automotive repairs and help control the cost of car insurance. The Promoting Automotive Repair, Trade, and Sales Act of 2017 (PARTS Act) would expand consumer choice for automobile collision repair parts, cut costs paid by drivers and insurers, and increase competition in the automobile repair parts market. The bill was introduced the same day that AAA released a new survey showing that one in three Americans would be unable to afford an unexpected car repair without going into debt. Rep. Darrell Issa: “Purchasing an automobile is one of the biggest investments a family will make. Yet according to AAA, one-in-three American drivers would be unable to cover the costs of an unexpected car repair bill without going into debt. As car insurance rates rise at their fastest rates in more than 13 years, families deserve access to as many options to make these fixes as possible. The PARTS Act increases consumer choice, encourages competition, fosters innovation and will be a big win for consumers by driving down the costs of these often very expensive repairs.” Senator Hatch: “There is no reason why Americans should have to pay unreasonably high prices to repair their cars. Drivers and insurers should be able to shop around for the best deal rather than being locked into a small number of options. The PARTS Act will encourage competition in the marketplace by providing consumers with a greater choice of affordable, quality alternatives to repair their cars.” Background The PARTS Act narrowly amends U.S. design patent law to reduce—from 14 years to 2.5 years—the period of time during which car manufacturers can enforce design patents on collision repair parts (fenders, quarter panels, doors, etc.) against alternative parts suppliers. The current 14-year design patent term prevents aftermarket manufacturers from making or selling external collision repair parts, which drives up repair costs by limiting consumer choice, crowding out competition, and leading to higher insurance rates and fees. Under the PARTS Act, it would not be an act of infringement for an alternative parts supplier to sell an aftermarket collision repair part once 2.5 years have elapsed from the date of patent. The Act would also allow alternative parts suppliers to research, develop, make, and test such parts on a not-for-sale basis during the 2.5-year patent period. The Act would not, however, affect the ability of car companies to enforce design patents against other car companies for up to 14 years. It would impact only aftermarket repair parts. For further background on the PARTS Act, click [here]. For a copy of the bill, click [here].
03.30.2017	Today, Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet, and Congressman Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), Chair of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, along with Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA), Judiciary Committee Member Congressman Ted Deutch (D-FL), and Congressman Tom Rooney (R-FL) re-introduced the Fair Play Fair Pay Act, a bipartisan bill to create a modern and uniform system of rules governing music licensing for digital and terrestrial radio broadcasts. “Our current music licensing laws are antiquated and unfair, which is why we need a system that ensures all radio services play by the same rules and all artists are fairly compensated,” said Representatives Nadler, Blackburn, Conyers, Issa, Deutch and Rooney. “Our laws should reward innovation, spur economic diversity and uphold the constitutional rights of creators. That is what the Fair Play Fair Pay Act sets out to accomplish: fixing a system that for too long has disadvantaged music creators and pitted technologies against each other by allowing certain services to get away with paying little or nothing to artists.” The Fair Play Fair Pay Act would: Create a terrestrial performance right so that AM/FM radio competes on equal footing with its Internet and satellite competitors who already pay performance royalties. This would resolve the decades old struggle for performance rights and ensure that—for the first time—music creators would have the right to fair pay when their performances are broadcast on AM/FM radio. Bring true platform parity to radio so that all forms of radio, regardless of the technology they use, pay fair market value for music performances. This levels the playing field and ends the unfair and illogical distortions caused by the different royalty standards that exist today. Ensure terrestrial royalties are affordable capping royalties for stations with less than $1 million in annual revenue at $500 per year (and at $100 a year for non-commercial stations), while protecting religious and incidental uses of music from having to pay any royalties at all. Make a clear statement that pre-1972 recordings have value and those who are profiting from them must pay appropriate royalties for their use, while we closely monitor the litigation developments on this issue. Protect songwriters and publishers by clearly stating that nothing in this bill can be used to lower songwriting royalties. Codify industry practices streamlining the allocation of royalty payments to music producers. Ensure that artists receive their fair share from direct licensing of all performances eligible for the statutory license. ###
03.29.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after signing on as an original co-sponsor of bipartisan legislation to curb civil forfeiture abuse (The DUE PROCESS Act) introduced in the House of Representatives today by Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisc.). The legislation was introduced the same day that the Department of Justice Office of Inspector General released a new report on asset forfeiture showing that since 2007, the DEA has taken $3.2 billion in cash from Americans never charged with a crime and that, according to the report, the Department of Justice "does not collect or evaluate the data necessary to know whether its seizures and forfeitures are effective, or the extent to which seizures present potential risks to civil liberties." (Read more in the Washington Post here) Congressman Darrell Issa: “In too many cases, civil forfeiture has wrongfully harmed innocent Americans through loss of property rights and due process. What was once intended to ensure drug dealers couldn't keep the fruits of their illegal activities has now become distorted by the government to permanently seize property from innocent Americans, often with little recourse or proof of wrongdoing.” “The bill raises the burden of proof for the government, gives claimants the opportunity to quickly contest seizures, improves transparency, and makes many long-overdue improvements to help rein in instances of misuse. Forfeiture reform has quickly become one of our best opportunities for bipartisan achievement in criminal justice reform. I look forward to the swift passage of these important updates to protect due process." Congressman Darrell Issa authored an op-ed for the Los Angeles Times arguing against civil forfeiture abuse last May. That piece is available here. He was also an original co-sponsor of the DUE PROCESS Act in the 114th Congress when it was first introduced. Key components of the DUE PROCESS Act include: Increasing the government’s burden of proof in civil asset forfeiture cases from “a preponderance of the evidence” to “clear and convincing” to help protect innocent victims Granting a right to counsel for Americans in civil asset forfeiture proceedings Allowing claimants to recover attorney’s fees in successful cases against government forfeiture Cutting in half the notification time frame from 60 to 30 days of the time frame the government has to notify property owners that a seizure has taken place. Requiring the government to notify property owners of the process by which they may contest a seizure including their right to a hearing and counsel. Helping property owners get property back faster Requiring the Inspector General to conduct a yearly audit on federal civil forfeitures to ensure they are being conducted within the letter and spirit of the law Increasing transparency by creating a federal database on forfeitures in order to make information more readily available to the public, including a catalog of federal forfeitures to assist those whose property has been seized as well as details on the types of forfeitures being executed, the agencies involved, and logs of the conduct that lead to forfeited property.
03.24.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after the House of Representatives canceled a vote on the American Health Care Act: "Californians who had their insurance plans canceled, lost access to their doctors, suffered premium increases and sky-high deductible hikes are depending on us to repeal and replace Obamacare once and for all,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “We must deliver relief from this law and return choice back to the people. However, the AHCA was an imperfect approach and I believe that we can do better. We will go back to the drawing board and get this right for each and every American concerned with high costs in their health care and ever-dwindling choices and access to care. As part of that discussion, we should consider plans, like mine, to give all Americans access the same high-quality coverage as federal employees and their families, as well as other good ideas, from both sides of the aisle, to deliver solutions to these problems. I remain committed to advancing the reforms necessary to increase access and affordability to our health care."
03.16.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1259 – the ‘Veterans’ Affairs Accountability First Act of 2017.’ The bill helps create a culture of accountability at the Department of Veterans Affairs by providing the VA Secretary increased flexibility to remove, demote, or suspend any VA employee, including Senior Executive Service employees, for performance or misconduct. “Restoring accountability is key to getting the VA to function correctly for all of our veterans,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “This common-sense reform will help ensure that veterans receive the quality health care they deserve and that VA employees who fail to uphold their duty are held accountable. Employees who cover up harmful mistakes or fail to carry out their basic job functions would never be tolerated in the private sector. Government should be no different. I look forward to continuing our efforts to bring long-overdue accountability to the VA and ensuring our nation’s service members have the care they’ve earned.” More information on the bill can be read here: https://veterans.house.gov/accountability Background: A recent study completed by the U.S. Government Accountability Office found that, on average, it takes six months to a year, to remove a permanent civil servant for misconduct in the Federal Government, though it often takes longer. Just last year, former VA Deputy Secretary Sloan Gibson testified at a hearing that it was too hard to fire bad employees at VA. In the past several years, VA’s arcane civil service rules have hampered the department’s ability to dismiss an employee that engaged in an armed robbery; discipline a VA nurse that participated in a veteran’s surgery while intoxicated; and hold employees accountable for the continued failures to manage several major construction projects, including the new hospital in Aurora, Colorado, that is now several years and a billion dollars over budget. ###
03.16.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after the President granted a federal disaster declaration for California counties (including San Diego and Orange) recovering from the severe winter storms, flooding, and mudslides of January 18 to January 23, 2017. "I want to thank the President and the Federal Emergency Management Agency for allowing San Diego and Orange County to access federal assistance to clean up, restore, and rebuild areas damaged by recent storms," said Congressman Darrell Issa. "I encourage all eligible organizations in California's 49th District to review the available federal options and contact our office if we can be of assistance." According to FEMA, "Federal funding is available to State, tribal, and eligible local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis for emergency work and the repair or replacement of facilities damaged by severe winter storms, flooding, and mudslides in El Dorado, Kern, Los Angeles, Mendocino, Napa, Orange, Riverside, Sacramento, San Diego, San Luis Obispo, San Mateo, Santa Barbara, Santa Cruz, Trinity, Tuolumne, and Yolo counties. Federal funding is also available on a cost-sharing basis for hazard mitigation measures statewide."For more information on the declaration and programs available: Check here with FEMA hereAnd here for more information For more information on the President's Declaration: Read the President's release here
03.16.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) and Congressman Jared Polis (D-Colo.) released the following statements after introducing the Financial Transparency Act of 2017 (H.R. 1530). The bill is a bipartisan proposal to streamline compliance requirements for businesses and increase transparency of the information collected by U.S. Financial Regulators. The bill introduced today builds on Congressman Issa’s previously passed DATA Act to require federal financial regulators to adopt a uniform, open, electronically searchable data format for all the information they already collect. For information that financial regulatory agencies are required to make public, the Financial Transparency Act directs these agencies to make that information available online as open data — electronically searchable, available online, downloadable in bulk, and without license restrictions. The Full Bill Text Can Be Read Here Congressman Darrell Issa: “Passing the Financial Transparency Act would be a big achievement for data transparency and the openness of public information. What my previous legislation, the DATA Act, is doing to open up government spending through online, searchable and freely accessible data, the Financial Transparency Act would do for financial reporting information. Financial reporting often relies on cumbersome – and duplicative – paper or PDF reports that make it difficult for regulators, and the public, to track down the information they need. By updating the process to an open data standard for the information already reported to the nation's eight financial regulatory agencies, we’ll be able to reduce regulatory burdens on businesses, give the public and investors better access to information, and boost our ability to find, and prevent, instances of fraud.” Congressman Jared Polis: "This bill is a common-sense solution, which will help make financial reporting more transparent, efficient, and accessible to the public,” Polis said. “Access to financial information is a win for consumers, businesses, as well as regulators.” The legislation has the support of the Data Coalition, a trade association that advocates on behalf of the private sector and the public interest for the publication of government information as standardized data. Congressman Randy Hultgren, Vice Chairman of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Securities and Investment: "Fraudsters like Bernie Madoff have fooled major U.S. regulators because many are still using 1930s pen and paper technology to handle today's digital challenges. This archaic practice harms our investors, markets and consumers. We need regulators to use searchable, open data to improve transparency and reduce the time consumers and businesses spend each year on unnecessary paperwork," said Rep. Hultgren. "The Financial Transparency Act encourages data standards that would make regulatory filings more transparent, useful and efficient for everyone who generates, collects and uses the information. Better decisions by investors and regulators, and lower compliance costs, will translate to faster economic growth and greater confidence in our economy."
03.15.2017	San Diego County is lining up in support of Congressman Darrell Issa's bill -- The Interim Consolidated Storage Act -- which would allow officials to move nuclear waste away from the San Onofre Nuclear Generation Station. In a letter to Congressman Darrell Issa, Dianne Jacob writes on behalf of the San Diego County Board of Supervisors thanking Congressman Issa for his leadership on the issue and expressing the Board's support for H.R. 474. The letter is available in its entirety here. Congressman Issa released the following statement:"Together, our communities and I are advancing a solution to one of our most pressing local challenges through the Interim Consolidated Storage Act," said Congressman Darrell Issa. “This bill ensures the federal government upholds its promise to remove this waste from our community. I'm proud to have the support of the San Diego County Board of Supervisors for this important piece of legislation and look forward to continuing to fight on behalf of Southern Californians." Earlier this year, Congressman Issa introduced the Interim Consolidated Storage Act and invited Congressman John Shimkus -- Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee responsible for nuclear waste issues -- to come out and visit the SONGS facility first-hand. The Interim Consolidated Storage Act was introduced as part of Congressman Issa's 2017 district legislative priorities. The bill was previously endorsed by the San Diego Regional Chamber in a letter earlier this February.
03.06.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after House Republicans released their plan to repeal and replace Obamacare known as the American Health Care Act. "Obamacare is collapsing under its own weight. Premiums have risen, deductibles have grown, choices have dwindled, millions have lost the coverage they knew and liked -- and things are only getting worse. Insurers are fleeing the Obamacare marketplaces in droves, leaving many Americans with no choice when it comes to their health care plans. That's not what was promised with health care reform. Last week, I released my alternative to repeal and replace Obamacare. This week, House leadership is unveiling their plan. While we work to review and perfect the details, one thing is clear: together we're getting to work on keeping our promise to put Americans and their physicians back in the driver's seat of their health care. I look forward to sending a bill to the President's desk that delivers Americans relief from Obamacare's burdens, reduces the cost of healthcare, and makes insurance accessible to all." ###
03.02.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after joining the Climate Solutions Caucus with fellow San Diego-area Congressman Juan Vargas. "Fiscal responsibility and good stewardship of our natural resources don't have to be be mutually exclusive," said Congressman Darrell Issa. "Coastal communities, like mine in Southern California, are counting on us to come up with solutions that encourage a strong and vibrant economy, while also ensuring we are taking care of our environment. Our country has some of the most innovative minds from anywhere in the world. I'm confident that by working together, we can tackle these challenges and come up with a better path forward. I'm pleased to join the Climate Solutions Caucus as a bipartisan opportunity for collaboration and also for its focus on economically viable solutions. We shouldn't be forced to choose between unworkable new taxes or complete inaction. Our district is one of the most beautiful places in the nation. It's our responsibility to ensure we both protect it for our children and grandchildren."
02.28.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement in response to the President’s address to the joint session of Congress: "I was encouraged by the bold agenda put forward by the President tonight. He is right that we need to get more Americans back to work and that we need immigration policies that allow us to keep the best and the brightest from around the world. He's also right that we need a federal government that keeps its promises to our veterans and that we need to bring real reforms to stop health care costs from spiraling out of control. To make these worthy goals a reality, however, we all must heed the President's call to come together. Now is the time to put aside our differences and focus instead on what unites us, listening to one another, and focusing on delivering results that will improve the lives of all Americans. I look forward to continuing to work with this Administration, my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, and the American people, to advance these goals that will restore a freer, stronger, and more prosperous America."
02.13.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass a series of bills that help veterans. The legislation passed today includes the WINGMAN Act, one of the first pieces of legislation co-sponsored by Congressman Issa in the new Congress and introduced as part of his 2017 District Priorities. “Veterans have fought and sacrificed much in their service to our nation. I’m pleased to support bipartisan legislation to speed up our ability to get them the benefits they’ve earned. As the Representative for the 42,000 Marines and their families at Camp Pendleton, one of the biggest issues we help constituents with every year is casework for problems with benefits or service issues at the VA. Yet, too often, bureaucratic red tape has created delays, taking weeks or months for caseworkers to receive the files they’ve requested from the VA. Streamlining this process through the WINGMAN Act will ensure that veterans won’t have to wait and can quickly get the help and benefits they’ve earned. We also must ensure veterans have ample opportunities for employment when they return from their service. The bills we've passed today will help make veterans a priority in the hiring process and give recognition to the companies who've put our heroes first. I applaud these efforts to improve veterans' services and strengthen job opportunities for those who've served." The bills passed today include:H.R. 512 – The WINGMAN Act The WINGMAN Act, co-sponsored by Congressman Darrell Issa, enables Congressional offices to provide better service to veterans with benefits claims and constituent services. It speeds up casework process by allowing authorized Congressional staff the ability to directly access VA records on behalf of constituents, instead of having to go through a middle-man at the agency. H.R. 244 – HIRE Vets Act The HIRE Vets Act establishes a recognition program to reward companies that hire veterans. Companies that hire, recruit and retain a certain proportion of veterans would become eligible for Gold or Platinum HIRE medallions to recognize -- and incentivize – companies that support employment opportunities for veterans.H.R. 974 -- BRAVE Act The BRAVE Act authorizes the Department of Veterans Affairs to give preferences in contracting to companies based on the percentage of full-time employees who are veterans. ###
02.10.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) and Congressman John Shimkus (R-Ill.), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee for the Environment, today toured the San Onofre Nuclear Generation Station and later held a press briefing discussing the outlook for solutions to nuclear storage in the new administration. Congressman Shimkus, whose subcommittee holds jurisdiction over the management of nuclear waste, accepted Congressman Issa's invitation to visit the site, see first-hand the decommissioning process, hear local concerns, and discuss possible solutions to get the waste removed from our communities and transferred into consolidated storage as soon as possible. Photos and other materials are available to press outlets for use in their coverage here. As of now, more than 3.6 million pounds of nuclear waste will be stored at the San Onofre Nuclear Generation Station indefinitely, right off our coastline, along a busy freeway, next to a military installation, and a major railway until a federal solution can be worked out. It’s just one of more than 120 sites nationwide that will be forced to store the material until Yucca Mountain is completed or a consolidated interim storage plan is approved. Congressman Darrell Issa: “Southern Californians have waited too long for the federal government to uphold their promise to take, and safely store, this nuclear material. The time for delay is over. It’s a privilege and honor to have Congressman Shimkus here in our district to see SONGS first-hand and hear local concerns on this critical issue. By bringing other lawmakers to our district, to educate and allow them to see the problems we face here locally, it’s my hope we can inspire action and the buy-in we need to advance a solution. In Congress, I’ll continue working on common-sense solutions to nuclear storage that ensure the federal government upholds the promise it made to ratepayers and gets this waste safely, and securely removed from our communities as quickly as possible.” Congressman John Shimkus: "The federal government's failure to take possession of spent nuclear fuel has nearly doubled the costs borne by American taxpayers, and now total nearly $30 billion. This number will continue to rapidly increase until the federal government fulfills its promise to local communities and ratepayers to permanently dispose of this material. This unnecessary burden weighs even more heavily on communities where used fuel continues to linger in short-term, temporary storage. I appreciate Darrell inviting me to visit another one of those communities today, and for highlighting the local impact of the federal government's unmet obligations. This Congress I will continue to push for a comprehensive solution to nuclear waste management that would move spent nuclear fuel out of these communities in a timely manner and toward permanent disposal at Yucca Mountain, as decided by the federal government thirty years ago." BACKGROUND: Congressman Darrell Issa is the author of the Interim Consolidated Storage Act (H.R. 474) which would allow the government to designate a temporary, consolidated nuclear storage site so that nuclear fuel could be removed from the 120 or more nuclear sites around the nation and stored while Yucca Mountain is completed.
02.06.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives voted to approve the Email Privacy Act, which would require law enforcement to obtain a warrant before searching or accessing Americans' emails:"If the government wants to read your emails, then they should be required to obtain a warrant just like they would need in order to read your letters, search your hard drive or listen in on your phone calls. Technology has made incredible advances over the years, but the privacy laws for digital communications just haven't kept pace. Right now, the rules governing how and when the government can access a person's emails, photos, documents and other online communications are outdated and do not provide for the same Fourth Amendment protections given to on-paper or in-person communications. The bill we've passed today is an important privacy safeguard that will help cement Americans' rights in the digital age."The Email Privacy Act is backed by privacy advocates, tech industry representatives, limited-government groups and business organizations including the ACLU, the Consumer Technology Association, the US Chamber of Commerce, FreedomWorks, the Internet Association and more. (full list)
02.03.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif) a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement in response to the newly issued sanctions on Iran: "The fact that the Obama Administration's deal with Iran permitted these flagrant missile tests only further demonstrates exactly why the deal was flawed from the get-go. The agreement emboldened Iran to continue its aggressive posturing, which represents a direct threat to the United States and its regional allies, which cannot be tolerated. These tests are a brazen violation of UN Security Council resolutions and should be brought to an end. The quick response from our new administration makes clear that the United States is serious about holding Iran accountable for their growing aggression and continued support for terrorism around the world."
01.31.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet, released the following statement on the nomination of Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court of the United States. "Neil Gorsuch is an impeccable jurist and an exemplary choice for the Supreme Court. He is an unyielding defender of the Constitution as it was originally written and a worthy heir to the monumental vacancy left by Justice Scalia. Judge Gorsuch is among the nation’s most brilliant legal minds, a captivating writer and is eminently qualified for the nation’s highest court. Through his work, he’s built both respect and approbation from those all across the ideological spectrum. In his appointment to the court of appeals, Neil earned the unanimous support of the Senate and deserves to be confirmed once again with little delay.”
01.30.2017	Congressman Issa Statement on President's Executive Order on Immigration WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement on the President’s executive order on immigration: "America is a nation of immigrants. Our country has been built by the hard work of those who've come here for liberty and to find hope in a land of opportunity. A welcoming America is not incompatible with a strong and secure America. We can put in place a vetting process that the American people have confidence in. To do so, the Congress must work with the administration to swiftly reestablish strong and clear screening procedures so that our rich tradition of immigration is not permanently threatened by those who wish us harm."
01.24.2017	Congressmen Darrell Issa (CA-49) and Rob Wittman (VA-01) introduced legislation aimed at easing the tax burden on military families by allowing them to establish one consistent state of residency. Under current law, active duty service members are able to maintain one state of legal residency for tax purposes even when they move on military orders. Spouses may be granted the same benefit, but only if both service member and spouse have the same tax residence at the time of their marriage. This causes complications when service members move, sometimes multiple times a year, because spouses are forced to establish residency in each new location. The Military Residency Choice Act will allow military spouses, if they so choose, to establish the same state of residency as the service member, so that for any future moves, they will retain the same state for tax and voting purposes. "Military families sacrifice a great deal for us all," Rep. Issa said. "They're often transferred from place to place, uprooting their lives each time they receive a change of station orders. Each transition requires difficult adjustments as they adapt to new schools, new jobs, new churches and new communities. They shouldn't be burdened yet again when tax time comes around. This bill is an easy update to the law that will simplify tax season for military families by allowing spouses to claim the same residency as their service members. It's a simple fix, but it will go a long way in making life easier for those who already given so much." "The last thing our military families need is additional stress during tax season," Rep. Wittman said. "Allowing military families to establish a consistent state of residency will give spouses the confidence to re-join the workforce when they move and help them better provide for their families. Our nation's military is only as strong as the men and women serving and the families who support them. Passing this simple residency fix will send a strong signal to our military families that we have their best interests at heart."
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement on the nomination of Heather Wilson for Secretary of the Air Force: "I've had the pleasure of getting to know Heather Wilson well as a member of the House Select Committee on Intelligence and have worked closely with her over the years. Without question, she is one of the most knowledgeable, most trusted, and smartest people I've ever had the honor of working with in Congress. Her extraordinary record of both military and public service make her just the woman we need to lead the U.S. Air Force. I applaud her on this tremendous honor and look forward to working together to restore America's leadership on the world stage and ensure our military is ready for the challenges of tomorrow."
01.24.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement congratulating Commissioner Ajit Pai on his designation as Chairman of the FCC by President Donald Trump. "Ajit Pai is a tireless and intrepid fighter for innovators and a thoughtful advocate of policies that advance choice and competition in the telecommunications marketplace," said Congressman Darrell Issa. "His selection is a welcome sign of change that shows a long-overdue turnaround at the FCC is now ensured in our new administration. I look forward to working with him on solutions that will encourage investment, promote consumer choice, foster innovation and bring fresh thinking that will encourage creative disruption across the FCC's broad jurisdiction. Ajit is truly an exceptional choice and I congratulate him on this much-deserved honor." ###
01.13.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) today issued the following statements on the Department of Homeland Security’s proposed changes to the EB-5 investor visa program. Chairman Goodlatte: “While I support the overall goal of the EB-5 investor visa program, it is currently riddled with fraud and abuse and has strayed further and further away from the program Congress envisioned when creating the program a quarter century ago. The facts make it clear that this program is in desperate need of reform. “I am pleased that the Department of Homeland Security has proposed increasing the investment amount and curtailing gerrymandering in this immigration program. This will help ensure that EB-5 investment funds are directed to distressed urban and rural communities that need them the most. I urge President-Elect Trump to finalize these common-sense and long overdue proposals to strengthen the integrity of this program so that it benefits the American economy.” Rep. Issa: “In the decades since its inception, the EB-5 program strayed far from Congress’ intent for these visas. Rather than becoming a boon to job creation and capital investment, the program became a cluster of abuse and a disgrace to the integrity of our immigration system. I am delighted to see the reasonable reforms put forward to the Department of Homeland Security. These measures will restore sanity to a program that once held great promise for putting America first.” Background: · Reform to the EB-5 investor visa program is needed more than ever. For example, the minimum investment amounts have not been increased since the program’s creation in 1990, which has limited the program’s ability to meet its mission of creating jobs and injecting capital into the U.S. economy. Additionally, regional centers gerrymander “targeted employment areas” in order to accept capital at the lower investment level, even when investing in luxury high-rises in affluent areas. Various agencies and government watchdogs have also identified national security concerns with this program, including economic espionage, use by foreign government agents and terrorists, and money laundering. · In February 2016, the House Judiciary Committee held a hearing on “Is the Investor Visa Program an Underperforming Asset?” to examine problems within the program. · In April 2016, Chairman Goodlatte testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee and called for reform to the EB-5 program. · Last Congress, Chairman Goodlatte introduced bipartisan legislation to reform the troubled EB-5 program, the American Job Creation and Investment Promotion Reform Act of 2016 (H.R. 5992). ###
01.13.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) hit the ground running in the first few days of the new legislative session, introducing his first proposals for the new Congress. The bills address a number of local concerns and present unique solutions for the challenges facing families and residents of the District including Orange and San Diego Counties. "The very first bills I've introduced this Congress directly address many of the top concerns I've heard from constituents all over our district. They're focused on protecting our military, putting American workers first, creating a secure energy future, and enhancing the safety of our communities. I'm eager to work with my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, to advance these common-sense solutions that will create jobs, increase accountability and ensure our military is ready for the challenges of tomorrow."The bills authored by Congressman Darrell Issa include: The Protect and Grow American Jobs Act The Protect and Grow American Jobs Act helps close loopholes being used to replace American labor on the cheap with foreign labor imported en masse from abroad. It makes several updates to the nation's high-skills visa program (H1B) to crack down on abuse and ensure that more of the limited slots available under this important program are made available to the uniquely qualified individuals our nation needs from the world's best and brightest. The Safe Recovery and Community Empowerment ActThe Safe Recovery and Community Empowerment Act returns power to state and local government to find solutions to help address the growth of sober living and residential recovery facilities. State and local government have been hamstrung from taking action, thanks to current interpretation of federal law. This bill gives communities the ability to choose reasonable oversight of residential recovery facilities and to enforce zoning and other city ordinances. The Interim Consolidated Storage Act The Interim Consolidated Storage Act would authorize the construction of a temporary storage site for nuclear waste from across the nation, while work continues on long-term, permanent solution. Two potential sites – one in New Mexico and one in West Texas – could allow nuclear waste from the shuttered San Onofre Nuclear Generation Station to be moved away from our community in as little as 5 years. The Military LAND Act The Military LAND Act protects current military training space at Camp Pendleton and would allow military officials to weigh in on future historic designation nominations for federally-owned spaces. In effect, the bill would ensure Trestles Beach remains a shared space between the military and the surfing community. The Midnight Rules Relief ActThe Midnight Rules Relief Act makes important changes to increase oversight, restore accountability, advance transparency and reduce the regulatory burden on business and other job creators. It amends the Congressional Review Act to allow Congress to overturn any executive branch regulation issued in the last 60 legislative days of an outgoing President's administration in a single vote. It streamlines the process for Congressional review to ensure regulations aren't rushed-in at the last minute, but are instead implemented in an accountable, well-thought-out, and transparent manner. Congressman Issa's Midnight Rules Relief Act was approved by the House in the first week of the new Congressional session by a vote of 238-184. They also include the following bills for which he is an original co-sponsor:The WINGMAN ActThe WINGMAN Act makes it easier for Congressional offices to assist veterans and their families with benefit claims and other constituent services issues. Post 9/11 GI Bill Reserve EligibilityThis bill ensures military reservists will receive Post 9/11 GI Bill benefits as intended by correcting an error resulting in Reservists and Guardsmen losing their monthly housing allowance if they are on as little as one day of active duty.
01.12.2017	Today, Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) and Chairman Mike Conaway (TX-11) introduced a bill that would pave a path forward for storage of the nation's nuclear waste. The Interim Consolidated Storage Act would allow the Department of Energy to use interest from the Nuclear Waste Fund to contract temporary storage facilities for spent nuclear fuel and could have the federal government begin collecting waste from nuclear facilities across the country in as little as 5 years. Congressman Darrell Issa: "The Interim Consolidated Storage Act is a great solution that allows us to break through past years of political gridlock to get this waste out of our communities and into safe, secure sites that are both well-equipped and want to store it. Maintaining the status quo isn't an option. Until we can get temporary and – ideally – permanent storage facilities open, nuclear waste will remain on-site more than 120 different sites nationwide. In my district, the San Onofre Nuclear Generation Station houses more than 3.6 million pounds of nuclear material right on the coast, along a fault line, on one of the largest U.S. military bases, in the heart of one of our most densely populated communities. Allowing it to stay there indefinitely is only asking for trouble. This is just one of hundreds of examples of similar sites nationwide. This bill advances a creative solution to this problem and is a reasonable plan to get the waste moved quickly and securely." Congressman Mike Conaway: "Nuclear waste should be stored with the utmost care, but currently, licensed facilities such as Waste Control Specialists in Andrews, Texas, are not able to serve as interim nuclear waste storage sites due to an outdated law and bureaucratic inefficiencies. As a result, nuclear utility plants currently have no choice but to store their waste on site. This legislation allows the Department of Energy to cut through the red tape and enter into contracts with these licensed facilities, such as the one in Andrews, ensuring that nuclear waste will be properly stored until a permanent site is established."
01.09.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) and Congressman Duncan Hunter (CA-50) are seeking solutions to help improve care for veterans at the San Diego VA in response to recent reports showing a 'large decline' in its national healthcare scoring. Issa and Hunter today released a letter to the Director of San Diego VA Healthcare System asking him to respond with a list of changes being made in response to the decline in scores. Of the 146 VA medical centers nationally, only four others — Tomah in Wisconsin, Hot Springs in South Dakota, Fargo, N.D., and El Paso, Texas — also showed “large declines” in performance in 2016. According to the latest report, the San Diego VA has declined from its four-star rating of a year ago to its current three-star rating. The scores are based on a long list of measures of medical care and “access issues,” such as call center performance and wait times for appointments. VA hospitals are rated on a scale with five being the best and one being the worst. “These results are unacceptable and signify that your branch of the VA has substantial room for improvement," Congressman Issa and Hunter wrote in the letter. Issa and his team have met with Dr. Smith multiple times since assuming the top posting at the San Diego VA to discuss local successes and work to improve services in response to veteran identified needs. The full letter can be read here or below the fold. A write up from the San Diego Union-Tribune can be found here. January 6, 2017 Robert M. Smith, M.D.Director, Veterans Affairs of San Diego3350 La Jolla Village Dr.San Diego, CA 92161 Dear Doctor Smith, Ensuring our veterans get the best service and care possible should be the Department of Veterans Affairs’ top priority. To that end, we appreciate your continued efforts in working to improve internal processes and procedures. However, today we are writing to express concern about your Department of Veterans Affairs quality-of-care rating results for 2016. The results indicate a “large decline” in San Diego’s year over year performance. San Diego County’s VA health system was listed as one of only five in the nation marked as “declined” in 2016 performance scores. These results are unacceptable and signify that your branch of the VA has substantial room for improvement. Congress and the Department of Veterans Affairs must remain partners in ensuring that our veterans receive the highest quality of care possible in accordance with our obligations to our service members. As such, we request that you provide, in writing, what steps you are taking to address issues at Veterans Affairs of San Diego. Specifically, recent changes which were made in response to the rating, why those changes were made, and how they will help ensure system-wide improvements to our veterans’ quality of care. For any follow-up questions or concerns, please contact Bryan Maass at Bryan.maass@mail.house.gov or 202-225-2386. Sincerely,Darrell Issa Member of Congress Duncan HunterMember of Congress
01.04.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass his bill, the Midnight Rules Relief Act, which would allow Congress to overturn, with a single vote, executive branch regulations finalized in the last 60 legislative days of an outgoing Presidential administration. Congressman Issa's bill was one of the first pieces of legislation passed in the new Congress. Congressman Darrell Issa: “This is about accountability, transparency and ensuring job creators aren’t being crushed by droves of new regulations just before a President leaves office. Regulations, when necessary, should be implemented with time for a thorough public vetting and input from those impacted. I’m thrilled at the House’s quick passage of my bill and look forward to it becoming law so we can start the process of removing unnecessary regulations and helping Americans get back to work.”Congressman Tom Marino: “The quick passage of the Midnight Rules Relief Act exemplifies our dedication to provide the American people with real, actionable solutions. Burdensome regulation is one of the greatest hindrances to growing jobs and the economy. Specifically, regulations rushed in at the last minute without proper oversight can cause significant damage to business. As I have said before, Washington cannot continue to fund reckless regulation on the backs of hardworking Americans. I am proud of the swift movement by the House on this legislation and encourage my colleagues in the Senate to act in the same, expeditious manner."Congressman John Ratcliffe: "The slew of regulations being churned out in the Obama administration's final days represents the exact type of executive overreach the American people just voted resoundingly against. These regulations – which carry the weight of law – have a massive impact on Americans' lives, and we in Congress owe it to the citizens of this great country to stop this madness. The Midnight Rules Relief Act will enable us to wipe out these last-minute regulations swiftly before their damage is done." The bill specifically amends the Congressional Review Act (the CRA) to allow Congress to reclaim the ability to effectively curtail multiple regulations hurried through the regulatory process in the final days of an outgoing Administration all at once. It’s designed to stem a growing trend by Presidents, of both parties, to use their last few months in office to rush in costly, expensive or controversial new regulations.
01.04.2017	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) today re-introduced legislation to help stop the outsourcing of American jobs and to reform the nation’s high-skilled immigration program. H.R. 170, the “Protect and Grow American Jobs Act,” makes important changes to the eligibility requirements for H1-B Visa exemptions that will help crack down on abuse and ensure these spots remain available for the best and brightest talent from around the world. Congressman Issa’s bill is introduced with the support of fellow San Diego area Congressman Scott Peters (D-CA). Congressman Darrell Issa: “In order for America to lead again, we need to ensure we can retain the world’s best and brightest talent. At the same time, we also need to make sure programs are not abused to allow companies to outsource and hire cheap foreign labor from abroad to replace American workers. The legislation we’re introducing today does both. It will ensure that our valuable high-skilled immigration spots are used by companies when the positions cannot be filled by the existing workforce. This bill is simple, bipartisan and is an important step to growing our economy and fixing one of the many aspects of our country’s broken immigration system.” Congressman Scott Peters: “Curbing abuse of the H1-B system will protect American jobs and help ensure that visas are available for innovators who need them to maintain a competitive workforce. This bipartisan bill makes one of the much-needed updates to our high-skilled visa system to level the playing field and help prevent companies from taking advantage of the system to offshore jobs. I will continue pushing for a comprehensive fix to our immigration system, but in the meantime this is a smart step forward.” Background On The Bill: Congressman Issa’s bill comes after a number of companies (Disney, SoCal Edison and others) have come under fire for abusing the H1B Visa program to replace American workers with foreign workers from overseas. The legislation would help close a loophole in the nation’s high-skilled immigration system being used by these companies to bring in cheaper foreign labor from abroad. It would raise the salary requirement for the positions to $100,000/year (up from $60,000/year currently) and eliminate the Masters Degree exemption. By raising the salary to a level more in-line with the average American salary for these positions, it would help cut down on abuse and ensure these positions remain available for companies who truly need them. It would also cut down on abuse by eliminating the masters degree exemption, which has become abused as foreign workers seeking H1B Visas have increasingly sought and obtained low-quality certificates to meet the requirements for an exemption just to qualify for H1B, instead of keeping the positions open for truly high-skilled positions that companies cannot fill domestically.
01.03.2017	Today, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) re-introduced the Midnight Rules Relief Act (H.R. 21), legislation that will allow Congress to overturn, with a single vote, executive branch regulations finalized in the last 60 legislative days of an outgoing Presidential administration. The bill specifically amends the Congressional Review Act (the CRA) to allow Congress to reclaim the ability to effectively curtail multiple regulations hurried through the regulatory process in the final days of an outgoing Administration all at once. It’s designed to stem a growing trend by Presidents, of both parties, to use their last few months in office to rush in costly, expensive or controversial new regulations. The House of Representatives is expected to approve the proposal on Wednesday. The bill was introduced with the bipartisan support of House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Congressman Tom Marino (R-PA), Congressman Collin Peterson (D-MN) and others. Congressman Darrell Issa: “Regulations impacting the economy, the environment, families, and our community should be done with great caution and transparency, not get rushed in last-minute on a President's way out of office. This is a good piece of legislation that will help keep this and future Presidents in check. The Midnight Rules Relief Act is a reasonable plan to strengthen executive branch oversight, giving Congress a better tool to ensure regulations are limited and, when necessary, approved in an open and transparent manner. We have a responsibility to ensure that unaccountable, last-minute regulations don’t continue crippling our economy, crushing small business and raising costs on middle-class families.” Chairman Bob Goodlatte: "Our nation’s regulatory costs are currently out of control, and the last days of the Obama Administration is no time to be issuing even more regulations that will hurt our nation’s ability to create more jobs in the future. Overly broad and partisan regulations that are too often created in the final days of a presidential administration are not fair to hardworking Americans who will feel the impact of regulations long after a president leaves office.” Congressman Tom Marino: “The runaway regulatory state maintained by the Obama administration has put immense strain on our economy and on working-class Americans. Still, President Obama continues to shuffle in last-minute regulations allowing no time for public scrutiny or thorough vetting. The Midnight Rules Relief Act ensures that midnight regulations can be easily disapproved of by the incoming Congress so no lame duck president has the opportunity to circumvent the will of the people or their representatives in Congress. It is an important and necessary piece of legislation that protects Americans from excessive, burdensome overreach by the executive.”Groups Supporting The Midnight Rules Relief Act: The Midnight Rules Relief Act has the support of job creators and business groups from across the nation including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Federation of Independent Businesses and more.
12.15.2016	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after President Obama signed into law a bill that will protect freedom of speech online. Congressman Darrell Issa was an original co-sponsor of the bill, which contains many of the provisions from his Consumer Review Freedom Act, introduced earlier last year. The Consumer Review Fairness Act, which is now law, was needed after a number of consumers have found themselves in court, fighting multi-million dollar lawsuits for leaving negative reviews of companies' services on sites like Yelp or TripAdvisor. The legislation will outlaw the use of “gag clauses” in non-negotiable form contracts which have attracted national scrutiny after some businesses have used the clauses to punish or silence criticism of products and services. “The Consumer Review Fairness Act is a common-sense solution that ensures no American has their opinion silenced online. When consumers have negative experiences or when a product fails to meet their expectations, it’s our right to express those concerns to others. The fair exchange of ideas and information makes the marketplace stronger and makes the goods and services we use every day become even better. I applaud the President for signing this much-needed reform into law. I thank Congressman Lance, Senator Thune, and the rest of my colleagues who worked so hard on this and look forward to continuing our work to protect a fair and open internet for generations to come.”
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (WIIN Act) which, among other projects, authorizes over $91 million to address the public safety issues and potential economic and property damages associated with bluff and beach erosion in Encinitas and Solana Beach. “I am proud to deliver on a top priority for the communities of Encinitas and Solana Beach. Erosion of the beaches and bluffs in our area have presented significant safety concerns we can correct through the careful work of the Army Corps of Engineers and our local and federal leaders. Just this week, I had the pleasure of meeting with Mayor Zito of Solana Beach where he stressed what an incredible difference this project will make for the future safety and economy in our area. Today I am excited to move this project forward. In addition, the WIIN Act makes crucial investments in our nation's water infrastructure and prioritizes drought relief for California. We still have much work to do on California's water problems, but this bill presents good solutions that will help ensure the longevity of our water infrastructure and help fix erosion issues that have plagued our coastal communities.” The Water Infrastructure Improvements Act for the Nation Act is bipartisan legislation that helps address the needs of the America's harbors, locks, dams, flood protection, and other water resources. In addition to the provisions for Sand Replenishment, the WIIN Act: Increases water deliveries to California farmers in the San Joaquin Valley and Southern California Builds long-term water infrastructure in California and around the nation Modifies environmental restrictions that have hindered the state’s ability to capture water during the rainy season Earlier this week, Congressman Issa met with Solana Beach Mayor David Zito in his Washington, D.C. offices to discuss the WIIN Act and the importance of the Army Corps' sand replenishment efforts to the safety and economy of the district. You can read more about the projects in Encinitas and Solana Beach here. ###
12.06.2016	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives voted to approve three veterans bills co-sponsored by Congressman Issa -- an Army veteran and representative of Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton. The legislation passed today includes measures that will stop the taxation of certain benefits paid to disabled combat veterans, allow self-scheduling of appointments at the VA, and allow spouses of servicemembers to claim the same residency as the servicemember for voting and tax purposes. “Each of these bills is common sense and long overdue," said Congressman Darrell Issa. "Veterans in the Orange County and San Diego County area contact my office for help with the Veterans Administration (VA) every single day. The bills we’ve passed today will help improve the healthcare, benefits, and services for veterans and their families. I thank and applaud my colleagues who worked on these important measures and look forward to continuing to work on further solutions for our nation's deserving vets." In addition to other measures, the House approved: H.R. 5015, the Combat-Injured Veterans Tax Fairness Act of 2016 Restores amounts improperly withheld for tax purposes from severance payments to individuals who retired or separated from service in the Armed Forces for combat-related injuries Background on this bill is available in the Military Times H.R. 4352, the Faster Care for Veterans Act of 2016 Directs the Veterans Affairs Department to carry out a pilot program establishing a patient self-scheduling appointment system. H.R. 5428, the Military Residency Choice Act Authorizes the spouses of servicemembers to elect to use the same residences as servicemembers for tax and voting purposes.
12.02.2016	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after voting to pass the National Defense Authorization Act for 2017. “Protecting our nation is our first and most important responsibility. The bill we passed today ensures that our troops, including the 43,000 Marines here at Camp Pendleton, have the tools, support, and funding they need to take the fight to the enemy and win. It provides the biggest pay raise our troops have seen in six years, provides funding to modernize our military installations around the globe, improves military readiness and ensures our troops are better prepared to accomplish their missions swiftly, safely, and effectively. It’s a huge boost for both our troops and the nation as a whole. Most notably, however, the bill provides an important fix for the California National Guardsmen wrongly being asked to repay their bonuses. The burden of proof will shift off the soldiers and on to the Department of Defense to prove that those who accepted monies did so knowingly and wrongly. It also ensures that any soldier who has already repaid these monies, will be refunded every single penny and have their credit restored. After serving our country valiantly, our nation’s heroes shouldn’t be forced to suffer for government’s bureaucratic mistakes. This will hopefully be a huge sigh of relief for these soldiers, many of whom have had their life savings raided and their credit ruined as they worked to pay back bonuses they should be able to keep. I thank my colleagues for their hard work on this bill and look forward to its passage soon." ###
11.30.2016	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after lawmakers announced a deal to help forgive the debts of California soldiers ordered to repay enlistment bonuses and refunds bonus monies to those who already repaid them: “This is an important fix that ultimately does the right thing,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “It moves the burden of proof off the soldiers and onto the Department of Defense to prove that those who received bonuses knew they shouldn’t have, and also helps make sure those who already wrongly repaid their portion are made whole at once. After so many of our heroes have had their credit ruined, their life savings ransacked and their financial futures upturned in an effort to repay bonuses they accepted in good faith, this is an appropriate and necessary step to doing what’s right. Soldiers will hopefully be able to breathe a sigh of relief and know that, unless there was some sort of intentional wrongdoing, Uncle Sam won’t be coming after them.” Congressman Darrell Issa also went on to caution that, “If soldiers who already repaid their bonuses do not have their money returned in an expeditious manner or if we later discover the Pentagon is still pursuing soldiers who accepted bonuses in good faith, we will revisit this with new legislation on Day 1 of the new Congress.” The compromise will be included in the National Defense Authorization, which will be voted on at the end of next week and does the following: Forgives the enlistment bonuses and student loan benefits unless the soldier who received the money “knew or reasonably should have known” that he or she was ineligible for it. Requires the Pentagon to inform credit agencies to correct any adverse effect on credit scores if the debts are forgiven. Requires the Defense Department to refund any repayments already made by soldiers as long as they were not guilty of fraud. Moves the burden of proof from the soldier to the Department of Defense to prove the soldier knew – or should have known – they were ineligible. More on the fix can be read in the LA Times here. Congressman Darrell Issa is an outside conferee to the National Defense Authorization. He was one of the first California members to call on the Defense Department to correct the issue after news of the scandal broke. He swiftly rebuked the initial, inadequate plan announced by the Pentagon in a conference call with Members on October 26. Congressman Issa would continue ramping up pressure, days later writing a letter to the Department of Defense demanding the Department return monies to soldiers who had already repaid bonuses as part of the scandal – a critical part left out of initial plans to resolve the matter. ###
11.28.2016	Congressman Darrell Issa released the following statement after the Senate passed and sent to the President’s desk for approval a bill to protect Freedom of Speech online. Congressman Darrell Issa is an original co-sponsor of the legislation, which contains many of the provisions from his Consumer Review Freedom Act which he introduced last year. The Consumer Review Fairness Act, which now heads to the President's Desk for approval, is needed after a number of consumers have found themselves in court, fighting multi-million dollar lawsuits for leaving negative – but truthful – reviews of companies' services on sites like Yelp or TripAdvisor. The legislation will outlaw the use of “gag clauses” in non-negotiable form contracts which have attracted national scrutiny after some business have used gag clauses to punish or silence honest criticism of products and services. “The internet is supposed to be an open-forum for the free exchange of ideas of all kind," said Congressman Darrell Issa. "But how free is that exchange, really, if it’s been cherry-picked and censored to weed out things some people find unfavorable? The bill we’ve now sent to the President’s desk will ensure that the internet remains a place where the freedom of speech can thrive and protect honest consumers from retaliatory litigation. I thank Congressman Lance, Senator Thune and our colleagues in the Senate for helping advance this important reform. The President should sign this bill into law immediately to protect and freedom and openness of the internet.” ###
11.26.2016	VISTA, Calif. – Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after the passing of Fidel Castro: “Fidel Castro was a tyrant, murderer, liar, and evil despot. History will remember him as nothing more. He murdered his own citizens, imprisoned those who disagreed with him and wrought inconceivable misery on the people of his country for nearly 6 decades. His death does not deserve to be mourned. While the dictator has died, the repressive regime he created endures. It is my hope that his death will mark the beginning of a new era of hope, freedom, and peace for the people of Cuba. We have much work to do, but the people of Cuba should know that the United States stands at the ready to help further our common mission of eradicating communism and oppression wherever we find it. The irony of his death on Black Friday – the most capitalist day of the year – should also serve as a reminder that capitalism and freedom always win." ###
11.18.2016	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after signing on as an original co-sponsor to the Veterans Earned Their Bonus Act (H.R. 6316). The bill addresses the veterans bonus scandal uncovered by the LA Times where veterans were being forced to repay bonuses granted by California National Guard recruiters from 2004 to 2010. “The soldiers who selflessly served our nation shouldn’t be punished for the government’s bureaucratic mistakes. The vast majority of these cases were examples where soldiers were offered bonuses and accepted them in good faith. Many of those affected had their life savings depleted and credit ruined as they worked to repay these debts they never owed. This important measure will help right these wrongs, stop the collection efforts and ensure these service members who’ve already repaid them have every single penny returned.” The Veterans Earned Their Bonus Act (VET Bonus Act) Creates a presumption that bonuses were received in good faith and that veterans met the criteria to receive the bonus. Determines that receipt of bonus money from the California National Guard between 2004 – 2010 shall not be subject to repayment to DoD unless the veteran committed fraud or did not satisfy service requirements in obtaining the bonus. Returns bonus money to veterans who already repaid them -- plus interest. Requires the Department of Defense to notify credit agencies that any debt previously reported was never valid. Provides financial assistance to veterans who incurred financial hardship
11.17.2016	Over the weekend, Representative Darrell Issa (R-CA) penned an op-ed for the OC Register outlining his solution to a growing national problem with sober living homes. In the piece, Congressman Issa makes the case for returning power to state and local government by updating the Fair Housing Act to allow oversight of sober living facilites through his bill -- the Safe Recovery and Community Empowerment Act (H.R. 6070). Highlights from the piece are below. The full piece can be read in the OC Register here. "The nation’s growing heroin and prescription painkiller epidemic has sent demand for treatment facilities to new highs. Sober homes, a place where those recovering from drug and alcohol addiction can live together in a substance-free environment in the final step of recovery, have cropped up all over Southern California. When well-run, these residences provide an important place where those in recovery can help shirk their addictions, but often many find that neither “sober” nor “home” accurately describe the environment they encounter there. Homes can be overcrowded and poorly maintained. In some of the worst cases, drug and alcohol use festers on the premises, with some even overdosing in their care. To allow communities to rein in these bad actors, it’s time for Congress to update the Fair Housing Act to give states, citiesand localities the power to oversee sober living facilities. ... The issue, of course, isn’t with those trying to overcome addiction. Especially at a time when fatal drug overdoses have surpassed car crashes as the number one cause of accidental death and as fatal drug overdoses in Orange County have now reached a 10-year high, it’s clear that people need to be able to obtain sober housing to help them get clean. The issue lies, instead, with those seizing on the lack of oversight to open substandard facilities at a rapid pace. Cities and states have attempted to fix this problem by passing reasonable and responsible zoning ordinances, but have only been met with federal roadblocks on their path to a solution. Expansive court interpretations of the Fair Housing Act have made it almost impossible for cities to pass and enforce housing laws on sober living homes, as they would on other types of licensed, addiction facilities. Without an update to federal law, city, state and local governments have very limited remedies to address this problem. ... The honorable services that sober living facilities seek to provide should not be clouded by the few who take advantage of people during the most vulnerable times in their lives. Keeping our neighbors and those in recovery safe is the job of our cities and states, and the federal government shouldn’t stand in their way." The full-length piece from the OC Register over the weekend is available here. ###
11.17.2016	Congressman Darrell Issa released the following statement after the US House of Representatives passed Congressman Issa’s bill to enhance congressional oversight of the overreaching regulations often issued during the final months of a president’s term. Congressman Issa’s bill -- the Midnight Rules Relief Act (H.R. 5982) – passed the House today in a 240-179 vote. “This bipartisan bill is about reviving the separation of powers to ensure our laws are written by the Representatives we actually vote for – not unelected and unaccountable bureaucrats who are on their way out the door. Presidents of both parties have made habit of enacting scores of last-minute regulations, with little oversight, to sneak in as much of their agenda as possible before the clock runs out on their time in office. The bill helps ensure this President, and any future president, will be held in check and that their policies have the proper level of scrutiny by both Congress and the American people. I’m pleased to see the House pass this important measure and look forward to its quick passage by our colleagues in the Senate.” ###
11.01.2016	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) is today increasing pressure on the Department of Defense to return bonuses to veterans who've already repaid them as part of the bonus clawback scandal exposed by the LA Times earlier last week. In a letter to Under Secretary Levine, Congressman Issa demands that the California National Guard work expeditiously to return the monies which soldiers have already repaid under the bonus clawback program. Though the Department of Defense agreed to suspend further collection efforts last week, the Department still has not put forth a plan for returning monies to soldiers who've already unfairly repaid them. "The Guards' own inept actions and lack of oversight created this debacle. The government has instead forced many of our war-fighters to deplete their life savings, take on more debt by refinancing their homes, and ruined their credit." "You have a duty to make the victims whole without delay, which includes compensation for all applicable interest fees and penalties. As such, the Department of Defense must clear these debts and assist with all service member issues related to invalidate the debts," writes Congressman Issa. The letter was sent this morning. It can be read in its entirety below and at the link here. Dear Mr. Levine: As the member of Congress who represents thousands of Marines and their families stationed at Camp Pendleton, I work on behalf of the service members and veterans in our community. Therefore, I request the California National Guard immediately act to fully reimburse and compensate soldiers who accepted payments in good faith and kept their commitment when they volunteered to protect our country. In light of recent revelations that unveiled the mismanagement and fraudulent activities of the California National Guard’s incentive programs, it would reasonable to assume that the Guard would expeditiously offer a solution and eliminate the burden place on military members. In contrast, the Guard has refused to accept wholesale responsibility for their failures, attempted to shift the blame, and offered only bureaucratic indifference, which is unacceptable at best. I believe in holding both individuals and organizations accountable for their actions. Any person or group that schemes and defrauds the government should face consequences. However, the Department of Defense has acknowledged that the vast majority of service members who received bonus and retention payments accepted the payments in good faith and fulfilled their commitment to serve. Therefore, those individuals should not face hardship as a result of the actions of others. The Guards' own inept actions and lack of oversight created this debacle. The government has instead forced many of our war-fighters to deplete their life savings, take on more debt by refinancing their homes, and ruined their credit. You have a duty to make the victims whole without delay, which includes compensation for all applicable interest fees and penalties. As such, the Department of Defense must clear these debts and assist with all service member issues related to invalidate the debts. If this continues my congressional colleagues and I will act to compel and force you to honor your commitments, just as the soldiers honored theirs. I respectfully request a detailed, substantive, and realistic solution to be delivered promptly. Sincerely, Darrell Issa Member of Congress
11.01.2016	On Friday, October 28, Congressman Darrell Issa met with Dr. Robert Smith, M.D., Director of the Veterans Affairs San Diego Healthcare System and secured a commitment to fix several issues plaguing the local VA. Over the last week, Congressman Issa had been leading an outreach program, asking veterans to submit concerns and problems with the VA to a special hotline he'd set up at Issa.Veterans@mail.house.gov. San Diego area veterans submitted their concerns on a wide range of issues they have faced when dealing with the VA. During Friday's meeting, Issa raised those issues with Dr. Smith in order to find a resolution. "I've heard from San Diego veterans who need the VA health care system to work better for them, whether it's finding a parking spot within walking distance of a clinic or not being able to reach anyone on the suicide prevention hotline. These are serious issues that need to be immediately addressed promptly. That's why I sat down with the head of the San Diego VA so that we could find solutions for each major problem because our veterans deserve better than what they currently receive. I'm glad to announce that Dr. Smith will be dedicating VA resources to make sure the needs of San Diego area veterans are addressed," said Issa. In early October a string of recent VA scandals came to light, including a report from the Union Tribune that detailed the VA's failure to help a veteran until the reporter publicized the veteran's attempts to have the Mission Valley VA Clinic's phone system fixed. Issa then asked area veterans to contact his office with specific problems. Friday's meeting was the culmination of Issa's efforts to bring the veterans' issues directly to the head of the San Diego VA. As a result of Issa's meeting, Dr. Smith committed to dedicated VA resources to address four major issues: Streamlining women's health services, tailoring VA visits to individuals' needs, fixing suicide prevention hotline, and improving parking options at various VA centers. Additionally, Dr. Smith agreed to meet with Issa in one month to update the Congressman on the status of Issa's requests Women's Services: women veterans requesting the VA improve services for gynecological health. Issa's request: The VA should streamline listing and scheduling of women's services so that women veterans have easy access to a full range of services that include family planning, infertility, and pregnancy consults, and gynecological oncology. Tailoring VA Visits: A majority of the veterans who contacted Issa's office requested the VA tailor services to the individual's needs. Issa's office found that generally older veterans prefer consistent long-term health care services, including developing relationships with specific doctors. Younger veterans were more concerned with immediate access and convenience, such as having the ability to visit any VA clinic and obtain the services they need. Issa's request: The VA should provide both options of consistent long-term and immediate, convenient care to all veterans. Suicide Prevent Hotline: The VA's suicide prevention hotline has been experiencing problems on a national scale. In San Diego, veterans have been unable to utilize the suicide prevention hotline due to technical problems that would abruptly end incoming calls. Issa's request: The VA should immediately fix all technical problems with suicide prevention hotline so that it is available and working twenty four hours of each day. Parking: Several veterans contacted Issa's office regarding problems with parking availability at various San Diego VA centers. The lack of or inconvenience of certain parking situations has led to veterans missing their appointments. Issa's request: The VA should work with city officials to create ample available and convenient parking for veterans, especially service-disabled veterans. California has the largest veteran population in the United States, and the VA San Diego Healthcare System is responsible for providing care to over 235,100 veterans. ###
11.01.2016	The City of San Juan Capistrano today became the third local government to express support for Congressman Darrell Issa's bill, the Safe Recovery and Community Empowerment Act (H.R. 6070), that would allow cities and states to implement oversight of sober living facilities. In a letter to Congressman Issa, the Mayor of San Juan Capistrano, Pam Patterson, writes, "Cities in California and across the country are dealing with a proliferation of residential recovery facilities in residential neighborhoods…The challenges derived from noncompliant residential recovery facilities are a strain on law enforcement resources, represent legitimate public safety threats to the community, and negatively affect the patients seeking treatment. The residential recovery facilities that are concerned with the quantity of patients, rather than the care of patients, have had a harmful effect on all of the compliant and well-operating facilities, leaving patients with incomplete treatment and local governments to deal with the fallout." "This bill would make a positive impact in mitigating these issues, by requiring residential recovery facilities to provide residents with a safe and sober living environment that is completely free from illegal drugs, alcohol, abuse, and harm; and requires homes, its owner, and its operator to obtain a license or permit to operate, meet a set of consumer protection standards, and register with the government." The full letter from the City of San Juan Capistrano is available here. "Cities and local government have had their hands tied in dealing with sober living facilities so I'm glad to have worked together to introduce this necessary update to the law," said Congressman Darrell Issa. "In many ways, the biggest issue I hear about day-to-day from constituents is the rapid growth of poorly-run sober living facilities that are helping neither those in recovery nor the communities they are supposed to serve. This simple update will help ensure local governments have the tools they need to solve these problems and sure these faculties are working for everyone. I'm proud to have the support of San Juan Capistrano and look forward advancing our solution when Congress reconvenes this fall." Congressman Issa recently held town hall meetings in Oceanside and San Clemente on Sober Living Homes where constituents came out in the hundreds, packing meeting rooms to the brim to share their concerns over the proliferation of these facilities. The City of San Clemente endorsed the Congressman's legislation in September and the Orange County Board of Supervisors quickly followed in October. Issa's bill would: Correct the Fair Housing Act to specifically clarify that state or local governments may enact and enforce zoning ordinances or other regulations that would limit the number of sober homes within a particular neighborhood Enable states and cities to require sober homes to be licensed and registered and to meet state-passed standards Enable sober home zoning to be enforced only if necessary to preserve the residential character of communities and if it allows at least some sober homes to be located within a particular area Require sober homes receiving payments or reimbursements for housing or drug testing services from Medicare, Medicaid, the Affordable Care Act, or via private insurance purchased on an exchange to meet a set of standards and to provide residents with a safe and sober living environment that is completely free from illegal drugs, alcohol, abuse, and harm.
10.27.2016	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after members of Congress were briefed on a call yesterday afternoon with the California House Delegation and the Department of Defense leadership about the current National Guard scandal. On the call, the Department of Defense outlined a plan to go through the bonuses on a case-by-case basis -- a process the DoD said could take as long as 9 months. "The Department of Defense officials made it clear that they're not eager to solve this injustice, but quite interested in getting the story out of the headlines to stop their own embarrassment. Their half-baked plan still fails to address what will happen to the veterans who’ve had their credit ruined, their life savings taken from them or been forced to refinance their homes. The bottom line is that soldiers sacrificed for our nation, accepted the offers in good faith and deserve to be made whole immediately. Secretary Carter and the National Guard need to stop the delays put forward a plan for when and how these veterans will have every penny returned to them and get serious about righting this horrible injustice."
10.24.2016	Congressman Darrell Issa is calling on Defense Secretary Ash Carter to immediately halt the clawback of enlistment bonuses paid to California National Guard soldiers as reported in the LA Times over the weekend. In letters sent to Secretary Carter and the NDAA Conferees, Congressman Issa strongly condemns efforts to force veterans to repay the cash bonuses, asks the Defense Department to halt the retrieval efforts, and calls on Congress to quickly implement a permanent fix. To read the letter to Ash Carter, click here. To read the letter to the NDAA Conferees, click here. Congressman Issa also issued the following statement: "The recent report regarding reenlistment bonuses being clawed back are extremely troubling. It is unconscionable that the responsibility for paying for bureaucratic malfeasance and corruption over a decade ago is being laid at the feet of the heroes who put themselves in harm's way to keep our nation safe. The Department of Defense should forgive these debts immediately."
10.14.2016	A dedication ceremony for the renaming of the Camp Pendleton Post Office in honor of the Marines and Navy Corpsmen who’ve received the Medal of Honor will take place Monday, October 17th at 11:00AM. The ceremony marks the official re-naming of the facility after Congressman Darrell Issa introduced a bill with the bipartisan support of more than 50 members of Congress, which passed the House of Representatives in March of this year and was quickly signed into law. Members of the media are invited to attend but must be cleared in advance through the Marine Corps so please contact Issa Communications Director Calvin Moore for credentials atcalvin.moore@mail.house.gov. What: A dedication plaque will be unveiled dedicating the Camp Pendleton Post Office in honor of Medal of Honor recipients as a result of Public Law 114-166 signed by the President and enacted June 2016. Who: Honorable Darrel E. Issa, Member of Congress James Olson, U.S. Postal Service San Diego District Manager Brigadier General Kevin J. Killea, Commanding General Colonel Jay Vargas, Medal of Honor recipient Colonel Robert Modrzejewski, Medal of Honor recipient Captain Robert A. Sulit, Bronze Star recipient and WWII vet. Colonel Vinny Lostetter, USAF (Ret.) When: Monday, October 17, 2016 11:00 a.m. Where: Marine Corp Base Camp Pendleton Unit 6 Building 1103 Oceanside, CA Congressman Darrell Issa released the following statement, "The men and women who've earned the Medal of Honor have gone above-and-beyond in the call of duty, many even giving their own lives to save their fellow men. I'm pleased to be able to recognize, even in such a small way, their incredible sacrifice for our nation. It's my hope that newly renamed facility will serve as an ever-present reminder of their courage and serve as a monument to honor our nation's bravest heroes." Background: On January 6, 2015 legislation to designate this post office to Medal of Honor recipients was introduced by Rep. Darrel Issa (CA-49). It was approved in May of 2016 and signed into law by President Obama on June 13, 2016. The Medal of Honor is the nation’s highest military award for bravery. It is awarded by the President in the name of Congress. For this reason, it is often referred to as the Congressional Medal of Honor. Since it was first presented in 1863, the medal has been awarded to 3,498 recipients.
10.14.2016	After the string of recent scandals at the VA and a report last week from the Union Tribune showing how a veteran had to involve reporters, just to get the VA Clinic’s phone system fixed in Mission Valley, Congressman Darrell Issa is calling on San Diego area veterans to contact his office with specific problems in the local the San Diego Veterans Affairs Healthcare System. Darrell Issa is asking the public to submit comments between today and Friday, October 21st so that he can take immediate action, presenting them to San Diego VA Director Robert Smith for action at a meeting to be held later this month. Veterans experiencing problems may submit their concerns to a special email hotline set up by the office of Congressman Darrell Issa at Issa.Veterans@mail.house.gov or by calling his Vista Office at 760-599-5000. Congressman Darrell Issa released the following statement: “Our veterans are tired of waiting on Washington to fix the problems that plague our VA healthcare system. I’m ready to work today to fix the immediate needs of our country’s heroes and ensure our VA system lives up to the promises we've made." He continued, “Many of the problems don’t need billions of dollars or large transformations. They simply require better listening, more accountability and leaders attuned to the issues veterans face every day. If you're experiencing issues with the VA, please bring them to me so I can deliver these concerns directly to the top - and more importantly - get action. No problem is too small for me to take to San Diego Director Dr. Robert Smith, from downed phone lines, inadequate parking, to trouble scheduling appointments – bring me your trouble and I will work toward a fix.�?
09.30.2016	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after voting in the House of Representatives to pass the Water Resources Development Act which contains authorization for the Army Corps of Engineers to complete coastal sand replenishment and storm damage reduction in Solana Beach and Encinitas. The Water Resources Development Act is a bipartisan piece of legislation to help address the needs of the America's harbors, locks, dams, flood protection, and other water resources. "With the passage of WRDA, it's my hope we can bring much-needed relief to Solana Beach and Encinitas coastlines that have been in need of repair and sand replenishment for years. Erosion has eaten away at many of the beaches along our coast, which can hamper our local beach economies and present significant safety risks to residents and the community. I'm pleased to move this local project priority forward." Congressman Issa had previously worked to expedite the annual dredging process at Oceanside harbor, following widespread complaints about the delays and impact on local small businesses. (Read more) Among other water projects, the Water Resources Development Act authorizes over $87 million in federal dollars to help reduce the risk to public safety and to curb economic damages associated with bluff and beach erosion in Encinitas and Solana Beach. You can read more about the project here.
09.29.2016	The Office of Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) will be holding a Military Service Academy Night in Oceanside on Wednesday, October 5th, 2016 at The Veterans Association of North County (VANC) located at 1617 Mission Ave, Oceanside, CA 92058 from 5:30pm-7:30pm. The event will be an opportunity for high school students and their parents to learn more about earning a nomination to attend one of the United States Service Academies. Representatives from all five Service Academies, the Military Academy at West Point, the Naval Academy, the Air Force Academy, the Merchant Marine Academy, and the Coast Guard Academy, will be in attendance along with Staff from Representative Issa’s office to answer questions about the application and nomination process. Students residing in any of the North San Diego County cities including Oceanside, Carlsbad, Encinitas, Vista, Del Mar, Solana Beach, San Diego and neighboring cities are encouraged to attend and bring their parents if they wish. For additional information contact Sunana Batra in Congressman Darrell Issa’s office at (760) 599-5000 or sunana.batra@mail.house.gov. WHAT: CA-49 Military Service Academy Night WHO: High School students in grades nine through twelve and their parents, who are interested in applying to one of the Military Service Academies and learning more about the application process and earning a congressional nomination. WHERE: The Veterans Association of North County (VANC) located at 1617 Mission Ave, Oceanside, CA 92058 WHEN: Wednesday, October 5th from 5:30 pm until 7:30 pm WHY: To give interested parties the opportunity ask questions about the nomination and academy selection process and to find out more about the incredible educational opportunities our service academies can provide.
09.29.2016	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after federal sexual assault reforms he co-sponsored passed the Senate unanimously and now head to the President’s desk where they’re expected to be signed into law. The Survivors’ Bill of Rights Act (H.R. 5578), which was passed by the House of Representatives earlier this month, will ensure that sexual assault survivors: Have the right to a sexual assault evidence collection kit Will be notified in writing before any kit is destroyed Will be able to request preservation of the kit Are informed of the results from forensic examination And requires the Attorney General and the Department of Health and Human Services recommend best practices regarding the care and treatment of sexual assault survivors and the preservation of forensic evidence. Following final passage in both houses, Congressman Darrell Issa released the following statement, “I’m excited to put these important reforms on the President’s desk and hope he’ll quickly sign them into law. This legislation makes it clear that we’re all-in on our commitment to changing the way our nation treats the victims of sexual assault. These critical reforms will implement a clearer, more transparent, more easily navigable process to ensure victims can actually attain justice. I thank everyone who’s worked together – on a bipartisan basis – to help reform these processes and look forward their swift signing into law.” Congressman Darrell Issa is a co-sponsor of the legislation and recently wrote an op-ed in Independent Journal with the bills lead sponsor, Rep. Mimi Walters, encouraging the Senate to quickly pass their bill. That op-ed is available here.
09.23.2016	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted to pass the Prohibiting Future Ransom Payments to Iran Act (H.R. 5931). “The Administration paid ransom-money to the leading state-sponsor of terror. There are no buts about it,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “The President’s already dangerous deal with Iran was made even worse by a decision to pay ransom to the globe’s number one state-sponsor of terror. Sending pallets-full of untraceable cash to a government known to fund terrorist groups put additional American lives at risk. It was a reckless decision that weakens our national security and put a target on more Americans' backs by giving financial incentive for further hostage takings. The bill we’ve approved today will ensure this careless, dangerous mistake by the Obama Administration never happens again.” Specifically, the legislation would: Make clear that the Obama Administration violated longstanding U.S. policy by releasing prisoners and paying ransom for the return of Americans held hostage by Iran Prohibit cash payments to Iran Demand transparency on future settlements to ensure they are not used to pay ransom.
09.22.2016	On Tuesday, the City Council for San Clemente unanimously voted to endorse legislation Congressman Darrell Issa introduced earlier this week -- the Safe Recovery and Community Empowerment Act (H.R. 6070) -- which would empower state and local government to oversee residential recovery facilities, which include sober living homes. The bill fixes the Fair Housing Act in order to end the prohibition on state and local governments’ ability to manage the exponential growth of sober living homes or their ability to ensure the facilities are providing the safe environment that is necessary for those in recovery to overcome addiction, as well as for those living in the surrounding communities. You can read more about the city's endorsement in the OC Register here.
09.20.2016	SAN CLEMENTE, Calif. -- Today Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) introduced legislation that would allow state and local governments to implement reasonable oversight of residential recovery facilities, which include sober living homes. The Safe Recovery and Community Empowerment Act (H.R. 6070) would fix the Fair Housing Act in order to end the prohibition on state and local governments’ ability to manage the exponential growth of sober living homes or their ability to ensure the facilities are providing the safe environment that is necessary for those in recovery to overcome addiction, as well as for those living in the surrounding communities. Following its introduction today in the House of Representatives, Congressman Darrell Issa released the following statement: “We’re facing a crisis of drug and alcohol addiction not just here in Orange and San Diego Counties, but all across the nation. Sober living homes are supposed to be the last step of recovery where people can build the support systems necessary to transition back into healthy lifestyles. But in too many cases, the legal framework for these facilities has become misused to allow bad actors to open poorly-run facilities that take advantage of good people in their most desperate time of need.” “The bill we’ve introduced today will permit state and local governments to implement reasonable oversight of sober living facilities and ensure that those who need help are able to get it in a safe, secure environment.” The bill would: Correct the Fair Housing Act to specifically clarify that state or local governments may enact and enforce a zoning ordinances or other regulations that would limit the number of sober homes within a particular neighborhood Enable states and cities to require sober homes to be licensed and registered and to meet state-passed standards Enable sober home zoning to be enforced only if necessary to preserve the residential character of communities and if it allows at least some sober homes to be located within a particular area Require sober homes receiving payments or reimbursements for housing or drug testing services from Medicare, Medicaid, the Affordable Care Act, or via private insurance purchased on an exchange to meet a set of standards and to provide residents with a safe and sober living environment that is completely free from illegal drugs, alcohol, abuse, and harm. The bill's introduction follows a forum Congressman Issa hosted in San Clemente that attracted more than 300 concerned citizens where he shared draft legislative language for community input and feedback. Read more about the previous meeting in the OC Register. ###
09.15.2016	In an op-ed for Independent Journal Review this morning, Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) and Congresswoman Mimi Walters (CA-45) point to the growing rape-kit backlog and recent high-profile sexual assault cases to make the case for why these important reforms should be passed into law as soon as possible. The full piece is available here and excerpts are available below. "National outrage over the handling of recent high-profile sexual assault cases have spurred universities into action as leaders have looked for ways to transform how sexual assault survivors are treated." "If society is going to get serious about changing the way we treat these terrible crimes, it will take more than our universities. It will require everyone, at all levels of society and government to get involved." ... "Under current law, basic rights that protect sexual assault survivors, and the extent to which they can attain justice, vary greatly between each state. Only six states – Illinois, Texas, Colorado, California, Wisconsin, Michigan, and Ohio – require law enforcement to test rape kits. Sadly, this leads to mind-boggling statistics like the fact that as many as 400,000 untested rape kits currently sit in evidence rooms. Sexual assault survivors deserve far better." "Most state law enforcement agencies do not have written guidelines or procedures for processing sex-crime evidence. These decisions are often left to the discretion of investigating officers, causing dramatic inconsistencies in how evidence is handled in cases that could help bring some of these perpetrators to justice." "Perhaps most shockingly, in every state – California included – police are legally allowed to destroy a rape kit before the statute of limitations expires." "These rights seem so simple that it is inexplicable how they are not already a well-established part of our federal criminal justice system." ... "Just last week, the House of Representatives unanimously approved the Survivors’ Bill of Rights to make necessary reforms to the federal criminal justice system. The Senate has already passed these vital reforms, and now, it is our hope the President will sign these reforms into law expeditiously."
09.14.2016	Today the House of Representatives voted to approve a bill co-sponsored by Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) designed to reform the Department of Veterans Affairs to bring real accountability, improve service, and ensure our nation’s veterans receive the care and support they deserve. The VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act (HR. 5620) increases accountability at the agency by making it far easier for VA officials to remove bad-actors for misconduct or poor performance. It also reforms the VA’s disability appeals process, which has long been problematic for veterans. Following House passage of the bill, Congressman Darrell Issa released the following statement: “The problems at the VA have gone on for far too long,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “Everyday our office gets calls from constituents – veterans – who are in desperate need of help. Either they can’t get the disability payments they deserve, the VA is too backed up to find them an appointment, or they just aren’t getting the support they need." "Shocking reports have shown cases where employees have shown up to work drunk or been caught manipulating wait times and, even then, it can take years of administrative procedure to discipline or fire them. So reform has to start with changing the culture of the VA to put veterans first." "The bill we passed today will ensure VA Administrators have the tools they need to hold employees accountable – from the ground up – and to be sure we aren’t turning a blind eye to this unacceptable behavior. The bill streamlines the disability appeals process to ensure our wounded veterans can actually get the support they deserve. I’m proud to have supported this piece of critical legislation and will continue working to get it signed into law in short order.” Among other provisions, the VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act of 2016 will: Shorten the firing/demotion/appeals process for rank-and-file VA employees from more than a year on average to no more than 77 days Remove entirely the Merit Systems Protection Board from the firing/demotion/appeals process for VA senior executives Provide VA whistle-blowers with a means to solve problems at the lowest level possible, while offering them protection from reprisals and mandating strict accountability for those who reprise against them Give the VA secretary the authority to recoup bonuses and relocation expenses from misbehaving employees Give the VA secretary the authority to reduce the pensions of senior executives convicted of felonies that influenced their job performance Reform the department’s broken disability benefits appeals process
09.13.2016	Today the House of Representatives approved legislation co-sponsored by Congressman Darrell Issa to increase Americans’ access to career and technical education. The Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act (H.R. 5587) reforms the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act to help position young Americans with the skills needed for today’s new economy and high-demand fields. The bill aims to give states increased flexibility over federal funds to better align training with current economic needs. To read a fact sheet on the bill, click here. To read a more detailed bill summary, click here. Following passage, Congressman Darrell Issa released the following statement: “Every student deserves a high-quality education that prepares them for life-long success. This legislation is an important step that helps equip America’s next generation for opportunities in our 21st Century economy. By making career and technical training programs more accessible and flexible to changing needs, we can better ensure every child has an equal chance to excel.” BACKGROUND: Since 1984, the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act has provided federal support to state and local career and technical education (CTE) programs. These programs offer students the opportunity to gain the knowledge, skills, and experience necessary to compete for jobs in a broad range of fields, such as health care and technology. However, because federal law has not been updated in more than a decade, it no longer reflects the realities and challenges facing today’s students and workers. Building on recent reforms to K-12 education and the workforce development system, Reps, the bipartisan legislation will: Deliver states more flexibility to use federal resources in response to changing education and economic needs. Ensure career and technical education prepares all students, including historically disadvantaged and vulnerable students, for success in high-skill, high-wage occupations and careers in nontraditional fields. Improve alignment with in-demand jobs by supporting innovative learning opportunities, building better community partnerships, and encouraging stronger engagement with employers. Enhance career and technical education through increased focus on employability skills, work-based learning opportunities, and meaningful credentialing so students are prepared to enter the workforce poised for success. Streamline performance measures to ensure career and technical education programs deliver results for students and taxpayers. Reduce administrative burdens and simplify the process for states to apply for federal resources. Reward success and innovation by directing federal resources to replicate promising practices that best serve students and employers. Provide parents, students, and stakeholders a voice in setting performance goals and evaluating the effectiveness of local programs. Empower state and local leaders to develop plans that improve the quality of career and technical education and take into account unique local and state needs. ###
09.12.2016	Today, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) voted for and the House of Representatives approved a bill that would prevent companies from suing customers for leaving true – but negative – online reviews. The Consumer Review Fairness Act protects Freedom of Speech and comes after a number of consumers have found themselves in court, fighting back multi-million dollar lawsuits for leaving bad reviews of companies' services on sites like Yelp or TripAdvisor. Congressman Darrell Issa is an original co-sponsor of the legislation. The Consumer Review Fairness Act is similar to Congressman Issa’sConsumer Review Freedom Act introduced last year. “The internet was created to be a place where anyone can go to freely and openly share information. But what good is that information really if it’s being cut down and censored by gag orders to screen out anything negative?” asked Congressman Darrell Issa. “The legislation we’ve passed today will ensure the marketplace remains open, honest and transparent by protecting consumers' right to free speech online.” The Senate passed legislation similar to the Consumer Review Fairness Act earlier this past December.
09.09.2016	Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Subcommittee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), and House Rules Committee Chairman Pete Sessions (R-Texas) introduced the Midnight Rules Relief Act (H.R. 5982) to halt the implementation of high-cost or politically-driven regulations during the last days and months of the Obama administration. The Midnight Rules Relief Act creates a rapid-response method for Congress to act when an outgoing presidential administration attempts to impose major regulations without the transparency and scrutiny expected in normal regulatory implementation. The bill specifically amends the Congressional Review Act (CRA) to allow CRA resolutions that disapprove of multiple midnight rules to be passed by the incoming Congress, allowing Congress to better scrutinize and stop midnight rules which are truly problematic—such as those that defy the message sent by the voters or those that have been poorly designed in the haste of the midnight rule period. Chairman Bob Goodlatte, Subcommittee Chairman Darrell Issa, and Chairman Pete Sessions issued the following statements upon the introduction of the bill. Subcommittee Chairman Issa: “Presidents from both parties have made habit of using midnight regulations to sneak in the few remaining parts of their agenda just before the clock runs out. Our bill will keep outgoing Administrations in check by ensuring new regulations attain the proper level of scrutiny by Congress and the American people. Many of these new rules and regulations come at a tremendous cost to small business and our job creators. We need to ensure these rules aren’t rushed in to fulfill some partisan agenda and that the people’s elected representatives have the opportunity carefully review them.” Chairman Goodlatte: “The regulatory agendas of presidential administrations are often fiercest in the last months and days of that administration. These midnight rules are passed before time runs out on a presidency, and can too easily go unchecked by Congress. What the American people are left with are regulations issued by presidential administrations that often have a far more lasting impact than the administration itself. “Midnight regulations should be subjected to even greater transparency, public scrutiny, and congressional oversight because the rules are often introduced with political motivations or to make one final push for an outgoing administration to complete their political agenda in office. “Providing a mechanism to overturn President Obama’s midnight regulations will deter the practice in future presidencies, and allow Congress to take greater control over the runaway administrative state we have seen arise in recent years.” Chairman Sessions: “American families and job creators have paid a significant price for this Administration’s aggressive regulatory agenda. Lack of scrutiny, flawed cost-benefit analysis, and lack of transparency and public participation have defined the skewed rulemaking process embraced by President Obama and his agencies. “House Republicans have proposed a number of critical reforms to return sanity and balance to the way regulations are written and implemented. Without exception, these reforms have been largely rejected by this Administration. Now our economy faces an even greater threat - regulations issued at the end of this Administration that, based on historical trends, will be the product of political expediency rather than economic benefit and careful analysis. “We have a responsibility to the American people to ensure the Obama Administration cannot further cripple our economy by pushing through costly and political regulations at the last hour of their occupancy of the White House without reasonable and responsible oversight.” ###
09.06.2016	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted 399-0 to approve a bill providing additional protections for survivors of sexual assaults -- the Survivors’ Bill of Rights Act of 2016 (H.R. 5578). The measure, which was cosponsored by Congressman Issa and introduced by neighboring Congresswomen Mimi Walters (R-Calif.) and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), will ensure that sexual assault survivors: Have the right to a sexual assault evidence collection kit Will be notified in writing before any kit is destroyed Will be able to request preservation of the kit Are informed of the results from forensic examination The Survivors’ Bill of Rights Act also requires the Attorney General and the Department of Health and Human Services recommend best practices regarding the care and treatment of sexual assault survivors and the preservation of forensic evidence. Upon its passage in the House of Representatives, Congressman Issa said,“We have to overhaul the way our criminal justice system treats the victims of sexual assault. Too often, justice remains out of reach for who’ve already been victimized by this heinous crime. Across the nation tens, if not hundreds, of thousands of rape kits remain untested and are often destroyed before they are ever tested by investigators. This bill will help protect evidence and codify into law small, but much needed, reforms to ensure victims have access to the justice they deserve.”
08.17.2016	VISTA, Calif. -- Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement in response to reports that the Obama Administration has released 15 detainees from Guantanamo Bay: “At a time when terrorist attacks continue to wreak havoc both here at home and with our allies abroad, the last thing we should be doing is releasing the terrorists we’ve already captured at Guantanamo Bay," said Congressman Darrell Issa. "As the Senate uncovered earlier this week, the detainees released are among the most hardened and dangerous terrorists and are a real threat to the safety of our citizens. Report after report has shown that Guantanamo detainees, once released, very quickly return to terrorism and, in many cases, have continued to take American lives. We cannot allow this to continue. Each time we release these dangerous criminals back into society, we put new American lives at risk. It’s time for the Administration to put our national security first by stopping the continued release of these terrorists.”
08.04.2016	Congressman Darrell Issa will attend the public memorial service for fallen San Diego Police Officer Jonathan DeGuzman, who was fatally wounded during a shootout in Southcrest last week. WHAT: Memorial Service for fallen SDPD Officer WHEN: Friday, August 5, 2016 at 11:00 A.M. WHERE: Shadow Mountain Community Church, 2100 Greenfield Drive, El Cajon, CA 92019 ###
08.03.2016	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement in response to the Wall Street Journal’s report that the Obama Administration made a $400 million cash payment to Iran around the same time that Iran had released the four American hostages: “Whether or not the $400 million payment was made as ransom, the optics couldn’t be any worse for American foreign policy or the safety of our citizens abroad. For generations, it has been the United States’ policy that America will not reward terrorists and hostage-takers with ransom because doing so puts a price tag on the head of every American and only further incentivizes these kidnappings.” “Even if we assume that what the State Department is saying is true – that it was just a mere coincidence of timing between the two separately negotiated deals – the appearance of agreeing to send truck-loads of foreign currency around the globe at the same time as these hostages are being freed makes the deal look like a ransom payment to our enemies. The Obama Administration’s decision to hide these details from the American people makes it even worse.” “At a time when terrorist attacks continue to ravage the American homeland and our allies around the world, we cannot afford to continue the Obama-Clinton pattern of capitulating to our enemies and cutting dangerous deals with Iran. The Administration owes the American people an explanation as to why they went to such lengths to accommodate state-sponsors of terrorism and why they chose to hide these details from the public.”
08.02.2016	Vista, CA – Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) will host a Military Service Academy Night on Thursday, August 11th from 5:30pm to 7:30pm in the Community Room at the Outlets at San Clemente, located at 101 W. Avenida Vista Hermosa, San Clemente CA. Presentations will be made by all five Military Service Academies: the United States Merchant Marine Academy, the United States Naval Academy, the United States Military Academy at West Point, the United States Air Force Academy, and the United States Coast Guard Academy. The event is free and open to all students in grades nine through twelve who are interested in applying to one of the five Military Service Academies and learning more about the application process. Send your RSVP to Sunana Batra at (760) 599-5000 or sunana.batra@mail.house.gov. What: Congressman Darrell Issa’s Mililary Service Academy Night When: Thursday, August 11th from 5:30pm to 7:30pm Where: Outlets at San Clemente VIP Lounge, located at 101 W. Avenida Vista Hermosa, San Clemente CA 92672. The Lounge is located on the second floor of Customer Service, located directly behind the GUESS Factory Store Who: Interested members of the public, students, parents and educators are all invited to attend. Why: To give interested parties the opportunity ask questions about the nomination and academy selection process and to find out more about the incredible educational opportunities our service academies can provide. Here's a map to the Lounge Location:
08.01.2016	Vista, Calif. – Over the weekend, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) continued pressing the Department of Energy for action on the nuclear waste at San Onofre and the imperative need for the Department to develop and execute a plan for the storage of the nation’s nuclear waste. Fulfilling his earlier pledge, Congressman Issa responded to the Department’s invitation for public comment, submitting remarks on how the agency should proceed with a plan that would allow the 3.6 million pounds of nuclear waste to be removed from the San Onofre Nuclear Generation Station (SONGS). Congressman Issa’s Comment Can Be Read Here More than 300 comments had been submitted between December 2015 and the July 31, 2016 deadline. Of the comments made public thus far, 44 commenters mentioned the SONGS facility specifically. Congressman Issa had been encouraging local residents to submit comment to the agency before the deadline. Here are a few of the highlights from area residents in their comments to the Department of Energy: A resident of San Clemente wrote on June 22: “The DOE collected over $40 B from utility rate‐payers for the disposal of this nuclear waste in a permanent facility. The Yucca site in Nevada was built for this purpose, but Senator Reid refuses the collection and transfer to this facility. Another example of wasteful spending.” Another resident from San Clemente commented on June 28: “I am writing this letter as a very concerned resident and homeowner in San Clemente. I have public safety concerns over the burial of nuclear waste at San Onofre, SONGS. We are living under threats of terrorism. Storing nuclear waste near a densely populated area and adjacent to one of our largest U.S. military bases is asking for trouble. On another note, San Onofre and San Clemente are close to earthquake faults that run along the coast and inland. The burial of nuclear waste in any approved canister is unsafe. This nuclear waste needs to be removed, not stored for 25 years. By then, any containers will be hazardous to transport. I find it difficult to believe that our Federal Agency has not provided alternate burial sites for safe storage of nuclear waste. Please find a way to safely remove this nuclear waste from our backyard. Give our children and grandchildren a safe place to call home.” A third resident from San Clemente submitted on June 21: “As a lifelong San Clemente resident I am deeply concerned that progress is too slow or non existent in removing the waste from the de commissioned SONGS plant. This small beach community in a thriving national economic engine is no place to store this waste, waste that was NEVER intended to be stored here in the first place. Our community and a greater southern California community is outraged! PLEASE remove this deadly waste.” A resident of Escondido wrote on May 6: “Please understand that there was never any consent based siting of San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station(SONGS) during the 65‐years I have lived in Southern California. Certainly no one has ever agreed to store more than 3 million pounds of highly radioactive waste a hundred feet from our beach.” The Congressman’s submitted comment comes after successfully requesting the Department of Energy attend a SONGS Community Engagement Panel meeting in June, where Assistant Secretary John Kotek was able to hear from local residents on the need for the Department to open a long-term storage facility quickly. Congressman Issa is an original co-sponsor of the Interim Consolidated Storage Act of 2015 which would allow the federal government to open a temporary storage facility while the Yucca Mountain facility is completed. ###
07.20.2016	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) is today announcing new, bipartisan legislation to stop the outsourcing of American jobs by companies abusing the H1-B visa program. H.R. 5801, the “Protect and Grow American Jobs Act,” led by Congressman Darrell Issa, is introduced with support from the entire San Diego Congressional Delegation, industry stakeholders, and immigration policy leaders including Congressman Lamar Smith (R-TX). Rep. Darrell Issa: “First and foremost, this bill is about protecting American jobs. The high-skilled visa program is critical to ensuring American companies can attract and retain the world’s best talent. Unfortunately, in recent years, this important program has become abused and exploited as a loophole for companies to replace American workers with cheaper labor from overseas. The bill we’ve put forward is simple, bipartisan and will go a long way to fixing one of the many problems with our broken immigration system.” Rep. Scott Peters (D-Calif.): “Innovators across San Diego rely on high-skilled visas to maintain a talented workforce. To ensure these visas are available for those who need them, we need strong systems in place to prevent abuse and protect jobs for American workers. This commonsense fix updates our high-skilled visas to reduce abuse of the system and ensure a level playing field for American workers. I will continue to push for a bipartisan fix to our broken immigration system so we can create economic opportunity and enhance our security.” Rep. Lamar Smith: “American workers and taxpayers deserve an immigration system that puts them first. H.R. 5801 updates the H-1B visa program to protect the wages and opportunities of hardworking Americans. I appreciate Rep. Issa’s commitment to improving the H-1B system.” BACKGROUND: The bill introduced by Congressman Issa closes a major loophole in our high skilled immigration system. The H1-B program was created by congress to help grow the economy by granting temporary visas to highly skilled individuals when employers could not find suitable employees in the American work force. Over time, it became clear that some employers were abusing the system and disproportionately hiring foreign workers. To fix that, the law was changed in 1998 to put certain requirements on employers wishing to hire H1-Bs. Included in those changes were requirements for employers that had more than 15 percent of their employers on H1-Bs to file attestations that suitable American employees could not be found. Exemptions were also created for these employers to reduce the burden of the attestations if certain criteria were met. Two of these exemptions have been widely abused: - The H-1B employee earns at least $60,000 annually - The H-1B employee holds the equivalent of a master’s degree or higher Because Masters degrees are often easily obtained by foreign workers and the $60,000 salary requirement was never indexed for inflation or updated, these two exemptions have allowed dependent companies to flood the H1-B lottery with applications and take up a disproportionate amount of the visas that would otherwise go to highly skilled individuals that would not be working at dependent companies and would not displace American workers. The bill introduced by Reps. Issa and Peters eliminates the Masters Degree exemption and raises the $60,000 threshold to $100,000, making it much harder for firms to bring in workers at a salary that could undercut American jobs. ###
07.14.2016	This week, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) voted for important legislation to increase veterans’ disability compensation from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The Veterans' Compensation COLA Act of 2016 (H.R. 5588) passed the House of Representatives with unanimous support. “Our veterans put their lives on the line for us all. It’s our responsibility to ensure they get the care and benefits they deserve. Unfortunately, the rising cost of living, especially here in Southern California, has made it hard for our disabled veterans to make ends meet. We owe it to these heroes to ensure that, at the very least, their compensation keeps pace with rising costs. This important, bipartisan legislation should pass the Senate swiftly so that Congress can consider other changes to veteran’s services that are long overdue.” The bill would increase the rates of VA disability compensation, dependency compensation for surviving children and spouses, and the clothing allowance for veterans based on rising costs of living. Under the legislation, the cost-of-living adjustment will be equal to the amount of the adjustment given to Social Security recipients and determined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ Consumer Price Index on a yearly basis. The alteration would take effect on December 1, 2016. ###
07.12.2016	Today Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) questioned Attorney General Loretta Lynch at a hearing before the House Judiciary Committee where she refused to answer even the most basic questions regarding the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s mishandling of classified information. Congressman Issa’s line of questioning was focused on what appears to be a growing dual-track justice system where politically-favored elites like Secretary Clinton and others get to live by a different set of rules than ordinary Americans. Here’s a transcript and video of the exchange: ISSA: "I'm going to take a tact that maybe is more appropriate to my own district and to the men and women there who are asking certain questions." ... "What do I tell the marines, the sailors, army personnel in my district, the veterans, the contractors -- all those who work for the government with classified information? ... “What do I say to the tens of thousands of people that live and work in my district who work for the federal government, including more than 47,000 marines? What do I say [to them] when saying something that isn’t true and handling classified information in an extremely careless way has no criminal ramifications? What do I say to them?" "How do I reconcile the fact that they know that their friends and colleagues have been prosecuted or fired for doing less in the past?" Video of the exchange is below: Rep. Issa Questions A.G. Loretta Lynch At Hearing Over Hillary's Email Investigation
07.11.2016	In response to the ever-growing list of problems at the Department of Veterans Affairs, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) today sponsored new legislation to help ensure our nation’s heroes get the care they deserve. The VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act of 2016 (H.R. 5620) will increase accountability at the agency by making it easier to dismiss misbehaving or negligent employees, by bolstering protections for whistle-blowers, and by reforming the agency’s disability benefits appeals process. The new bill comes in the wake of a heartbreaking study on data from the Department of Veterans Affairs which showed 20 veterans commit suicide every day and after widely-reported scandals in which it was revealed that Department of Veterans Affairs medical facilities were regularly cancelling appointments and falsifying wait times, preventing the nation’s heroes from obtaining the care they need. “Our nation’s veterans deserve better than what they’re getting from the VA,” said Congressman Darrell Issa. “For far too long, many VA administrators have operated with no accountability, cooking the books to hide their poor performance while employees who are either unwilling or unable to do their jobs have been gone on without discipline. The bill I’ve sponsored today will help eliminate these problems, bring real accountability and help ensure our nation’s heroes finally attain the care they deserve.” Among other provisions, the VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act of 2016 will: Shorten the firing/demotion/appeals process for rank-and-file VA employees from more than a year on average to no more than 77 days Remove entirely the Merit Systems Protection Board from the firing/demotion/appeals process for VA senior executives Provide VA whistle-blowers with a means to solve problems at the lowest level possible, while offering them protection from reprisals and mandating strict accountability for those who reprise against them Give the VA secretary the authority to recoup bonuses and relocation expenses from misbehaving employees Give the VA secretary the authority to reduce the pensions of senior executives convicted of felonies that influenced their job performance
07.07.2016	Today Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) voted for and the House Judiciary Committee approved two important criminal justice reform measures that will provide protections for survivors of sexual assault and allow Rapid DNA analysis machines to be used at local police stations. The first measure, the Survivors' Bill of Rights Act of 2016 (H.R. 5578), was co-sponsored by Congressman Issa and introduced by neighboring Congresswomen Mimi Walters (R-Calif.) and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) to ensure that sexual assault survivors will have the right to a sexual assault evidence collection kit, will be notified in writing before any kit is destroyed, will be able to request preservation of the kit, and are informed of the results from forensic examination. The Survivors’ Bill of Rights Act also creates a joint working group to recommend best practices regarding the care and treatment of sexual assault survivors and the preservation of forensic evidence. Following passage, Congressman Issa said, “Victims of sexual assault have already suffered far more than is imaginable, yet all too often, the criminal justice system makes their pain worse by making it impossible for victims to attain the justice they deserve. The bill we’ve approved today will codify into law a baseline set of procedures and protections that will help the victims of sexual assault have access to the justice which, for too long, has been out of their grasp.” Congressman Issa also voted for and the House Judiciary Committee has approved the Rapid DNA Act of 2015 (H.R. 320) which updates current law by permitting Rapid DNA analysis machines to be used at local police stations. Rapid DNA technology expedites DNA analysis and allows local law enforcement to accurately identify a suspect in as little as 90 minutes. Under current practices, DNA samples are shipped to a state lab for analysis which results in weeks of delays to get information that can be obtained in less than two hours with Rapid DNA machines. This unnecessary postponement has created significant backlogs in investigations. “It’s a shame that our outdated system has kept law enforcement from taking advantage of the latest in crime-fighting technologies. This measure will help update our police forces to give them the latest tools to make our communities safer and justice swifter. It will help curb backlogs in crime labs to save time, save money and save lives.”
07.06.2016	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after voting in the House of Representatives to pass the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act of 2016 (H.R. 2646) which strengthens our nation’s mental health services: “Today, 1 in 5 Americans are living with some form of mental illness, but only about half of those affected are actually receiving the care they need. It’s a travesty that, even in America, patients and families are often left on their own to deal with serious mental health crises instead of getting the compassion and care they require.” Just earlier today, Congressman Issa met with Jennifer Hoff, a constituent and outspoken advocate for reforming our broken mental health system, to discuss how often disjointed laws and ineffective policies are failing those in need of care. Congressman Issa added: “We need to be able to help people. We are lucky to have a few Members of Congress with the expertise in health and mental illness to address these issues. I’m proud that finally the House is putting forward serious, bipartisan legislation that will help people get treatment, streamline our broken mental healthcare system, and ultimately save lives.” “The bipartisan ‘Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act’ will provide improved access to care and give families the tools they need to assist their loved ones.” The Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act is budget neutral and makes several important changes to the way the nation handles mental health services. Among other provisions, the bill: - Reforms our nation’s broken mental health system by restructuring and refocusing programs and grants. - Removes barriers between families of the mentally ill and their physicians. - Removes barriers to alleviate the lack of understanding and misinterpretations of HIPAA privacy rules and the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act. - Allows designated family members or caregivers of individuals with serious mental illness access to their physicians in terms of diagnoses, treatment plans, appointment scheduling, medications and medication related instructions if it is necessary to protect the health, safety, or welfare of the individual or general public. - Authorizes for the first time the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline program to provide suicide prevention and crisis intervention services by maintaining a 24/7 hotline link between callers and local resources. - Reauthorizes the National Child Traumatic Stress Network (established to improve access to care, treatment, and services for traumatized children and adolescents exposed to traumatic events), which is required to collect, analyze and report data. ###
07.05.2016	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement in response to FBI Director James Comey’s announcement today that the FBI will not recommend charges against Fmr. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton: “This stunning decision shows just what the American people are so tired of: a system where the Clintons and the politically-connected few get to play by a different set of rules from everyone else. Despite declining to recommend charges, the FBI Director’s press conference today was nothing short of damning. It proved that Secretary Clinton was not only ‘extremely careless’ in her handling of classified information, but also that she knew better and did it anyway. Under similar circumstances, anyone else would have to bear the consequences for their actions, but in this case, justice and accountability seem to have evaded the American people once again.”
07.01.2016	VISTA, Calif. – Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement after President Obama signed the FOIA Improvement Act of 2016 (S. 337) into law this afternoon. The FOIA Improvement Act contains many important bipartisan reforms Congressman Darrell Issa introduced and has worked across the aisle with fellow Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-Md.) to pass for several years. The law will make government more open and responsive by streamlining the public’s ability to access information about the inner-workings of their government. Congressman Issa had the following to say: “From day one, my biggest priority in Congress has been to make government more open and responsive to the people it’s supposed to serve. I’m proud to finally see these bipartisan reforms, which I’ve been fighting to implement for years, become a reality.” “This critical update to the Freedom of Information Act is a major milestone that enshrines into law the people’s right to know what their government is actually doing. It’s a significant step forward to the accountable government the people deserve.” “We’ve seen countless examples of how easy it is for government to cover up waste, fraud, abuse, or anything politically embarrassing through years of delays, redactions and special exemptions. The bill which will now become law will help ensure these types of injustices are a way of the past.” Congressman Issa went on to thank Rep. Elijah Cummings for his partnership in accomplishing this significant overhaul: “Washington works best when members from both sides of the aisle put aside their differences to get things done for the American people. In this case, FOIA reform couldn’t have happened without bipartisan cooperation from my colleagues – especially Rep. Elijah Cummings. There’s no way we could have accomplished FOIA reform without him and his tremendous partnership all the way through.” In the following photo, Congressman Darrell Issa joined Speaker Paul Ryan to sign the FOIA Improvement Act of 2016 before it was sent to the President’s desk and signed into law this afternoon.
06.28.2016	Members of California's congressional delegation are increasing pressure on the Obama Administration to stop the state's plan to expand Obamacare coverage to illegal immigrants. Over the weekend, nine members of Congress from California joined forces to send a letter to the Secretary of Health and Human Services and the Secretary of the Treasury asking the Administration to deny the state's application for permission to offer health insurance coverage to illegal immigrants on the state's Obamacare Exchange, Covered California. The letter comes in response to legislation signed into law by Governor Brown (D-Calif.) earlier this month, which requires the state to apply for a waiver to bypass the law's requirement that those receiving coverage be here legally. The letter was led by Representative Darrell Issa (CA-49) and joined by Representatives Tom McClintock (CA-04), Ken Calvert (CA-42), Dana Rohrabacher (CA-48), Duncan Hunter (CA-50), Doug LaMalfa (CA-01), Paul Cook (CA-08), Ed Royce (CA-39), and Mimi Walters (CA-45). The complete letter can be viewed here and the text can be found below. June 24, 2016 The Honorable Sylvia Burwell Secretary of Health and Human Services U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, D.C. 20201 The Honorable Jacob Lew Secretary of the Treasury U.S. Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20220 Dear Madame Secretary and Mr. Secretary: As Members of California’s Congressional Delegation, we write to request that the Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of the Treasury deny California’s application to allow illegal immigrants to enroll in healthcare coverage on California’s exchange, Covered California. This brazen attempt to circumvent the will of Congress adds insult to injury for the millions of Americans who have already been aggrieved and misled by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA). Additionally, California’s waiver request would raise costs to taxpayers and set an improper precedent for other states that could lead to full taxpayer-subsidized healthcare coverage for individuals who are illegally present in the United States. The issue of extending coverage to illegal immigrants on the healthcare exchanges was the subject of vigorous debate during the drafting and passage of the ACA. Both the American people and lawmakers were repeatedly promised illegal immigrants would not be able to receive coverage under the law. During his 2009 address to a Joint Session of Congress, President Barack Obama affirmed: “There are also those who claim that our reform effort will insure illegal immigrants. This, too, is false. The reforms I'm proposing would not apply to those who are here illegally." In fact, the ACA explicitly prohibits unlawful residents from purchasing health insurance on a state exchange, stating: “If an individual is not, or is not reasonably expected to be for the entire period for which enrollment is sought, a citizen or national of the United States or an alien lawfully present in the United States, the individual shall not be treated as a qualified individual and may not be covered under a qualified health plan in the individual market that is offered through an Exchange.” Despite these assurances, the State of California recently passed a law requiring the state to make a request to the federal government to enroll illegal immigrants on the state exchange under the Innovation Waiver provision outlined in Section 1332 of the ACA. Covered California predicts 50,000 illegal aliens would benefit from this expansion while a more comprehensive examination estimates 390,000 illegal immigrants may participate. This move also comes on the heels of California’s expansion of the state’s Medicaid program to 170,000 undocumented children. California’s waiver request would exacerbate the negative effects of the President’s healthcare law and ignores Congressional intent. As such, it should be denied. According to a February 2016 report by the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, illegal immigrants nationwide have already received $750 million in taxpayer funded subsidies in violation of the ACA. Purposefully permitting additional undocumented Californians to purchase coverage on the state exchange would only make these costly errors all the more common. Further, we can expect an improper expansion of coverage to be followed by an increased burden on taxpayers. If advocates of this effort are successful in eliminating the differences between benefits available to legal and illegal populations, subsidies for plans could be made available for an average of 72% of plan costs. Current tax credits and cost-sharing subsides to legal resident enrollees cost taxpayers $32 billion in 2015 alone. Denial of this waiver application would prevent yet another action undermining the promises made, but not kept, with the passage of the ACA. Americans were promised that if they liked their doctor and their plans, then they could keep them. Unfortunately, that has not been the case. Citizens were promised premium savings of more than $2,500 per year for a family of four, yet the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) predicts skyrocketing premiums to continue approaching an additional 60% over the next ten years. Overall spending on healthcare has only increased despite commitments that federal intervention would reduce the taxpayer burden. In fact, CBO’s most recent budget and economic outlook report asserts the impact of the ACA has been the primary cause for the stagnation of our economic growth. Now, this California effort threatens to increase the burden on American taxpayers yet again. If granted, this waiver would undermine the guarantee that illegal immigrants would not receive the direct ability to purchase healthcare on the exchanges. For these reasons, we request that you deny California’s Section 1332 Innovation Waiver application. We thank you for your attention to this matter, and look forward to your response. If you have questions, please contact Chelsea Cuellar in Congressman Darrell Issa’s Office at chelsea.cuellar@mail.house.gov or at (202) 225-3906 option 4. Sincerely, Representative Darrell Issa Representative Tom McClintock Representative Ken Calvert Representative Dana Rohrabacher Representative Duncan Hunter Representative Doug LaMalfa Representative Paul Cook Representative Ed Royce Representative Mimi Walters
06.28.2016	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), former Chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, released the following statement after the House Select Committee on Benghazi released its final investigative report into the 2012 terrorist attacks that killed four Americans in Libya. “It is time to tell the truth about Benghazi because we owe nothing less than that to the families of the fallen and the memories of those who died there," said Congressman Darrell Issa. "Today's compelling and comprehensive report may be long, but it's not unclear. The Obama Administration and the Clinton State Department made crucial mistakes before the attacks, hesitated when they should have acted during them, and covered up when they should have come clean in the aftermath.” “We all should be grateful to Chairman Gowdy and members of the Committee for their fortitude, perseverance and commitment to finding the truth, despite relentless and continuing obstruction by Congressional Democrats and the withholding of information by the Obama Administration. The report released today provides necessary answers and a true measure of accountability that the American people deserve. Congressional oversight is a difficult job, but necessary to restore public trust in their government. This report does just that.”
06.24.2016	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement in response to the United Kingdom's decision to leave the European Union: “The vote last night was historic, but it won’t change the special friendship we have with our allies in the U.K.," said Congressman Darrell Issa. "In a democracy, the people have the right to chart their own future. The people have made a decision and I respect it. The U.K. has been an indispensable partner to the United States and that relationship will continue no matter what. I look forward to bolstering our trade relationship, working together on shared issues of national security, and strengthening the historic ties that bind our two nations."
06.23.2016	In today's Sacramento Bee, Congressman Darrell Issa encourages President Obama to follow through on his pledge to sign bipartisan reforms to the Freedom of Information Act approved by the House and Senate earlier this month. Congressman Issa has been a champion for fixing FOIA, leading the charge for many of the reforms which are expected to become law over the next few days. Here are some of the highlights. You can also check out the full length piece on SacBee.com. Obama must follow through on transparency pledge By: Congressman Darrell Issa Special to the Sacramento Bee "Last week, both houses of Congress finally approved long-awaited and hard-fought reforms to the Freedom of Information Act, which allows journalists and the general public to obtain information on how their government works, or doesn’t work." ... "The reform package, which is expected to become law in the next few days, is a significant step towards undoing the culture of secrecy that’s unfortunately become the norm in Washington, D.C." ... "Under the Obama administration, the law has become terribly broken. Agencies are required to respond in 20 days, but bureaucrats have made a habit of slow-walking document requests or denying access altogether. Agencies find ways to invoke any one of nine exemptions under the current law, effectively creating an unlawful presumption in favor of secrecy, as a January report from the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform put it." ... "This culture of secrecy breeds contempt for government and erodes the public’s trust in the very institutions intended to serve them. No wonder Americans’ trust in government is at an all-time low." ... "The reforms, for which I have been fighting for three years, are a welcome, long-overdue upgrade to the nation’s transparency laws. It will help make access to government information simpler, broader, cheaper and easier. It’s a step in the direction of the open and responsive government we deserve." The full length article is available here in the Sacramento Bee.
06.23.2016	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court ruling in U.S. v. Texas, which held that that President’s use of executive action to grant amnesty to illegal immigrants is unconstitutional: “Today’s decision is a victory for the Constitution and rule of law as it was designed to be,�? said Congressman Darrell Issa. “In our democracy, the President doesn’t get to legislate by executive decree whenever the people’s representatives don’t give him what he wants. He has to follow the Constitution which says laws come from the American people through the legislative branch, not the President. The decision today protects the American people from executive power run amok.�? “The split-decision also reminds us all how important it is that the next Supreme Court justice demonstrate a deep reverence for limited government and the Constitution as it was originally intended. The future justice will have tremendous sway over close decisions like these." ###
06.17.2016	On Wednesday, June 22, 2016 at 5:30PM, the Department of Energy will be sending a representative to our community to hear from local citizens about their concerns about the long-term storage of nuclear waste at the SONGS facility. The decommissioning of SONGS facility has been a major source of concern. Until we can either stop the obstruction of the Yucca Mountain repository or find an interim storage solution, 3.6 million pounds of nuclear waste will remain in the heart of our community, in less-than-ideal storage conditions, at the decommissioned San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station. I requested the Department of Energy (DOE) host a forum in our community to hear directly from engaged residents on their concerns and solutions for short-term and long-term nuclear storage needs. Responding to my letter, the Department of Energy has agreed for Acting Assistant Secretary for Nuclear Energy, John F. Kotek, to participate in a local forum hosted by the SONGS Community Engagement Panel this Wednesday, June 22, 2016 beginning at 5:30 PM at the San Juan Capistrano Community Center, 25925 Camino del Avion, San Juan Capistrano, California 92675. Attendees will receive an update from the DOE on nationwide storage efforts and have the opportunity to share the needs of our region in particular. Unable to attend the meeting? Concerned citizens can submit comments to the Federal Register before the comment period expires on July 31. You may submit questions or comments by any of the following methods: Email: Responses may be provided by email to consentbasedsiting@hq.doe.gov. Please include “Response to IPC” in the subject line. Mail: Responses may be provided by mail to the following address: U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Nuclear Energy, Response to IPC, 1000 Independence Ave SW., Washington, DC 20585. Fax: Responses may be faxed to 202-586-0544. Please include “Response to IPC” on the fax cover page. The Department is collecting public input through July 31, 2016. Engagement by our communities is critical to ensuring SONGS is prioritized in federal storage plans. I am committed to expediting the removal of waste from SONGS as required by law and paid for by local ratepayers.
06.15.2016	Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed, H.R. 5053, the Preventing IRS Abuse and Protecting Free Speech Act, which would prevent the IRS from requiring non-profit groups to submit lists of donor names on their tax return: “All Americans should be disturbed that non-profits, charities, and other tax-exempt groups became a vehicle for the government to suppress political adversaries,” said Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.). "Ever since my committee uncovered the IRS targeting of conservative groups in 2013, more and more information has come to light showing that the IRS can’t be trusted with information about Americans personal or political affiliations. In a free society people should be free to criticize government, speak up loudly and do so without living in fear of retribution from their government. The bill passed today will protect citizens by removing this targeting tool from the IRS." BACKGROUND: H.R. 5053 would prevent the IRS from collecting information about donors to tax-exempt organizations. Under this bill, tax-exempt organizations would report information on donors who contribute $5,000 or more and who are either an officer of the organization or one of its five highest paid employees. Under current law, tax-exempt organizations have to report information on any donor who gives more than $5,000 in a calendar year. While this information is not publicly disclosed, there have been a number of cases where the IRS has improperly released donor lists to the public. By limiting the amount of information collected, the bill will both help protect taxpayer’s right to privacy and help prevent the targeting of citizens for their political views.
06.13.2016	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed bipartisan legislation, S. 337, the FOIA Improvement Act of 2016, which includes provisions of a companion bill introduced in the House by former Chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), and current Ranking Member, Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-MD). The FOIA Improvement Act of 2016 makes important changes to the existing Freedom of Information Act passed 50 years ago. Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA): “The legislation passed today makes it clear that the American people have a fundamental right to know what their government is doing. The Freedom of Information Act was supposed to make government more open, but in recent years, it has become rife with abuse as administrators have made a habit of slow-walking, delaying, or outright denying requests for information that should have been made public to begin with. The bill effectively cripples the ability of federal bureaucrats and power hungry government officials to keep information from the American people. I’ve lead the fight for three years now to improve the broken FOIA process, and today, I’m glad to see these efforts become a reality.” Oversight Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT): “Passing bipartisan FOIA legislation is a major milestone and big step forward in fixing a broken process. This bill will help make government more transparent and accountable to the public.” Ranking Member Cummings (D-MD): “We have been working on this bill in a bipartisan way for years, and I am pleased that Congress is finally passing this legislation to update and improve FOIA ahead of the 50th anniversary of this landmark open government legislation. This bill will put into law a presumption of transparency and make it easier for the public to access information from the federal government.” The FOIA Improvement Act of 2016 is widely supported by dozens of open government groups, including The Sunshine in Government Initiative and a coalition of media associations that promotes ways to improve FOIA. The bill now heads to the President’s desk where it is expected to be signed into law. Important Bill Provisions: - Codifies a statutory presumption of openness, which places the burden on agencies to justify withholding information, instead of on the requester to justify release. - Strengthens proactive disclosure, which would continue to make transparency and disclosure of information a part of everyday business. Disclosure should be timely, accurate, and routine. - Directs the Office of Management and Budget to establish a single access website to allow users to submit their requests and review the status instead of submitting requests to agencies individually. - Strengthens the Office of Government Information Services (OGIS), which functions as the FOIA Ombudsman, giving more independence and responsibility to a non-partisan, non-political office to oversee FOIA compliance. - Requires agencies to update their regulations. 50% of agencies have not updated their regulations to reflect the President and Attorney General Holder’s FOIA memos. Up-to-date regulations are essential to ensuring agencies are complying with FOIA. Background: In June 2015, the Oversight Committee conducted two days of hearings during which the public heard firsthand accounts of ineffective and inefficient FOIA responses as well as agency best practices. On January 11, 2016, the House passed Reps. Issa and Cummings’ FOIA legislation. In March 2016, S. 337 passed the Senate with a unanimous and bipartisan vote. ###
06.03.2016	Can federal workers use Uber and Lyft on official travel to save taxpayer dollars? That was the question Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) raised today on Mornings with Maria. The Congressman joined the program to discuss a letter he sent to the General Services Administration (and the response he received) inquiring as to whether federal employees were authorized to use Sharing Economy services to save taxpayer money on government travel. Check out the original letter, response and interview below: HIGHLIGHTS: Reporter: They sent a letter to the GSA earlier this year asking whether these ride-sharing programs like Uber and Lyft are indeed expensable. ... Both Issa and Uber think there's still some ambiguity there. That there's a gray area. And that there should be some further clarity. Issa thinks that this could potentially save taxpayers big bucks. ... Issa: [The GSAs] answer basically makes us believe that they're not doing anything. BACKGROUND: Congressman Issa (R-Calif.) and Congressman Eric Swalwell (D-Calif.) sent this letter to the General Services Administration asking whether Uber and related sharing economy services are expensable on government travel on February 10, 2016. The General Services Administration responded on March 14, 2016 in this letter, delivering essentially a non-answer saying that "each agency determines and manages final authorization and approval of travel expenses based on its mission and internal policies and controls." On May 12, 2015, Congressman Issa (R-Calif.) and Congressman Swalwell (D-Calif.) co-founded the Sharing Economy Caucus to bring attention to this booming sector of the economy, its impact on our society, and to help educate lawmakers on the the issues affecting this growing area of innovation. (Release)
05.26.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — This morning, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) joined CNN’s New Day to discuss his proposal to make security lines at the airport move more quickly. Check out the interview below: Highlights: "When you take government it's going to be more bureaucratic. When you unionize, it's going to be more bureaucratic." "If you take an industry, but you don’t have any flexibility in the workforce, it's going to be inefficient … It's one of the reasons that a private system can be more flexible, meet the requirements of the traveler and ... be three times more likely to catch bad things according to random tests. That’s a huge difference in safety." ... "The passengers who see better safety, shorter lines, and according to the GAO — at least a billion dollars in savings — are on our side. This is about moving to a system that works in some places that have been allowed to have [a private system] and expanding, allowing more places to have it sooner." Background: Earlier this week, Congressman Issa proposed expanding the TSA’s “Screening Partnership Program” to allow private contractors to take over day-to-day screenings at the nation’s airports. The results would lead to shorter lines, increased efficiency, better security and reduced costs to taxpayers. His op-ed can be read here.
05.25.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today the House Judiciary Committee approved legislation Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) introduced with his colleagues last week to rein in civil asset forfeiture abuse. The DUE PROCESS Act of 2016 (H.R. 5283) will strengthen American protections for property rights and due process by preventing the police from unjustly taking citizens' property. Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement: “Our criminal justice system is failing Americans and is in desperate need of reform. Nowhere is that more apparent than in our broken civil forfeiture laws which have allowed law enforcement to make a habit of seizing property from innocent Americans without sufficient proof of wrongdoing. I’m pleased the House Judiciary Committee was able to move swiftly on this bill, which I introduced with my colleagues last week. The bill will strengthen due process, increase transparency and accountability of law enforcement, and help curb abuse of this tool. I look forward to continuing to work on civil justice reform and am hopeful to see the bill pass the full House in short order.” Key provisions of the DUE PROCESS Act include: Reforming federal civil asset forfeiture programs -Enhances procedural protections of forfeiture proceedings in both civil and administrative settings and prevents government overreach -Increases the government’s burden of proof in civil asset forfeiture cases to help protect innocent victims Strengthening protections for those with taken property -Creates a right to counsel for Americans in all civil asset forfeiture proceedings -Provides that a claimant may recover attorney’s fees in victorious cases against a government forfeiture -Speeds up the process for the government to notify the property owner of a seizure -Expands protections to innocent owners by requiring the government to prove the connection between the property and the offense and that the property was used intentionally in order to seize it Increasing accountability and oversight of seizures and forfeitures -Requires the Inspector General to conduct a yearly audit on a representative sample of federal civil forfeitures to ensure they are being conducted within the letter and spirit of the law -Requires the creation of two federal databases on forfeitures in order to make information more readily available to the public, including a catalog of federal forfeitures to assist those whose property has been seized and to provide broad details on the types of forfeiture, agencies involved, and the conduct that lead to forfeited property
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) wrote an article featured in CNN Opinion this morning arguing that amidst reports of nightmarish security lines at the airport, TSA should consider getting out of the airport security screening business altogether. Here are some of the highlights. You can also check out the full length piece on CNN.com "These firestorms online and in the media [over the growing lines at the airport] have brought new attention to our broken airport security system, a problem that has been slowly growing for years. But if we want to fix it, the solution couldn't be any simpler: let's get the TSA out of the airport screening business altogether." ... "Last year, an internal investigation revealed that undercover agents were able to sneak mock explosives or banned weapons through the agency's security checkpoints a whopping 95% of the time. And in the real world, the results with actual air travelers were similar. Since 2001, the TSA has suffered more than 25,000 security breaches (an average of over 200 per month) where passengers were able either to gain access to restricted areas of an airport or get items on board without proper examination." "Taken together, these reports prove what many of us have suspected all along. The Transportation Security Administration's screening procedures project only the illusion of increased safety — in reality, they provide little protection." ... "Ultimately, allowing private companies to take over administration of our airports' security, under the TSA's guidelines, would unleash the markets' power of innovation to improve customer service and undo years of bureaucracy that has squandered billions of dollars dedicated to airport security and done much to make traveling more miserable." ... "No system will completely eliminate the problems we face when it comes to transportation security, but we can surpass the low bar set by the TSA. By opening up the system to competition and new ideas, we'll be able to undo some of the problems passengers have faced and make the skies friendly once again." Read the rest of the piece here. ###
05.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Today, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) and 12 of his colleagues introduced legislation to rein in civil forfeiture abuse, signing on as an original cosponsor of the DUE PROCESS Act of 2016. The bill makes several important changes to the nation's federal civil forfeiture program to help curb recent abuses and prevent Americans from having their property taken away by law enforcement without due process. Congressman Darrell Issa had the following to say: "Civil forfeiture remains one of the greatest assaults to property rights and due process in America today. What was once intended to ensure drug dealers couldn't keep the fruits of their illegal activities has now become grossly misused to allow law enforcement to a take away the property of ordinary, innocent Americans simply trying to live out their lives. Though there are still issues to be addressed, the legislation we're putting forward today is a great starting point for a conversation on how we're going to stop these abuses. I look forward to working with, educating, and engaging my colleagues on both sides of the aisle on this important issue so that we can pass meaningful reform for the people being harmed by this injustice every day." Among other changes, the bill will help fix some of the recent problems and abuses under civil forfeiture by: Protecting innocent property owners. Under the act, if the government is attempting to forfeit property under civil forfeiture, the government would have to prove that that (1) there was a substantial connection between the property and the offense and (2) that the owner of the property intentionally used, knowingly consented, or reasonably should have known that the property was being used in connection with the offense. Requiring faster notice of seizure to property owners. Under current law, the government has 60 days to notify a property owner that their property was taken. The DUE PROCESS Act will reduce this to 30 days. Making it easier for property owners to contest takings. The DUE PROCESS Act would require law enforcement to notify property owners of the address where they can contest a seizure, to inform them of their right to request an initial hearing, to inform them of their right to be represented by counsel at that hearing, and also of their right to have counsel provided if the property owner is indigent. Giving property owners more time to respond. The DUE PROCESS Act extends the period that property owners have to respond to a seizure. In a personal notice, they will have 65 days (increased from 35 days) and in the case of a public notice, 60 days (increased from 30). Helping property owners get their seized property back quicker. Under current law, the government has 90 days after an objection is filed to commence forfeiture proceedings, but courts can extend this time period with a simple motion. Under the DUE PROCESS Act, the period can be extended only by agreement of both parties. The law would also give a property owner the ability to request an initial hearing at which a magistrate judge would order the immediate release of a property owner's seized property if it was not made according to law. Increasing the burden of proof required. The DUE PROCESS Act would raise the government's burden of proof from "a preponderance of the evidence" to "clear and convincing." Bolstering right to counsel. Under current law, many defendants who have had assets seized before trial do not have the ability to access those assets, even if they are their only means to pay for counsel. The DUE PROCESS Act would allow defendants access to a hearing where a judge could determine whether the seizure should be modified or rescinded to preserve the defendant's right to counsel. Recovery of attorney's fees. The DUE PROCESS Act would allow for recovery of attorney's fees when civil forfeiture cases are resolved through settlement if the settlement amount is greater than half of the seized property’s value. Increasing transparency. The Act would require the Attorney General to establish two C: one to catalogue all federal forfeitures to help people recover property taken and the other to inform the public on the types of forfeiture being used, the agencies involved and the conduct that lead to the seizure. A copy of the bill text can be found here. The bill introduced today was sponsored by Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) and it's original cosponsors are Representatives Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), Doug Collins (R-Ga.), Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), J. Randy Forbes (R-Va.), Trent Franks (R-Ariz.), Steve Cohen (D-Tenn.), Hank Johnson (D-Ga.), Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), Raul Labrador (R-Idaho), David Trott (R-Mich.), Mimi Walters (R-Calif.), and Cedric Richmond (D-La.). ###
05.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In an effort to battle the nation’s growing heroin and opioid epidemic, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) voted this week in the U.S. House of Representatives to pass a suite of 18 bills focused on addiction, treatment and prevention. The bills were approved with broad bipartisan support and provide for substance abuse treatment and education while helping bolster law enforcement efforts to help fight back the growing crisis. Congressman Darrell Issa had the following to say: “Decisive action to reign in this crisis is long overdue. Addiction is tearing our families apart, ravaging our communities and taking the lives of our mothers, fathers, sons and daughters far too soon. It’s become a crisis not just here in California, but all across the nation as increasing numbers of Americans, from every walk of life, continue to be touched by the heartache of addiction. Every hour, every day, countless loved-ones are losing their lives to drug overdoses. In fact, drug overdose has become number one cause of accidental death, surpassing car crashes for the first time. I’m encouraged that the House of Representatives was able to pass legislation to bring hope to families, addicts and those recovering. I’m even more hopeful that the Senate will take up similar legislation so we can put it on the President’s desk for approval as soon as possible.” The bills passed by the House of Representatives include a number of measures that would make it easier for doctors to treat patients addicted to opioids, give law enforcement greater ability to intercept drug trafficking, and offer better protections for veterans and children affected by opioid addiction. Other measures would require the federal government to conduct studies evaluating the nation’s capacity for treating opioid addiction, and study the impact of good Samaritan laws which protect first responders and emergency personnel from criminal and civil liability for administering naloxone, the opioid overdose antidote. A full list of the bills passed this week is below: H.R. 4063 – Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Gus Bilirakis / Veterans’ Affairs Committee) H.R. 4985 – Kingpin Designation Improvement Act of 2016 (Sponsored by Rep. John Katko / Foreign Affairs Committee) S. 32 – Transnational Drug Trafficking Act of 2015 (Sponsored by Sen. Dianne Feinstein / Judiciary Committee) H.R. 5048 – Good Samaritan Assessment Act of 2016 (Sponsored by Rep. Frank Guinta / Judiciary Committee) H.R. 5052 – OPEN Act (Sponsored by Rep. Kevin McCarthy / Judiciary Committee) H.R. 4843 – Infant Plan of Safe Care Improvement Act (Sponsored by Rep. Lou Barletta / Education and the Workforce Committee) H.R. 4978 – NAS Healthy Babies Act, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Evan Jenkins / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 3680 – Co-Prescribing to Reduce Overdoses Act of 2016, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. John Sarbanes / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 3691 – Improving Treatment for Pregnant and Postpartum Women Act of 2016 (Sponsored by Rep. Ben Ray Lujan / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 1818 – Veteran Emergency Medical Technician Support Act of 2016 (Sponsored by Rep. Adam Kinzinger / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 4969 – John Thomas Decker Act of 2016 (Sponsored by Rep. Pat Meehan / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 4586 – Lali’s Law (Sponsored by Rep. Bob Dold / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 4599 – Reducing Unused Medications Act of 2016 (Sponsored by Rep. Katherine Clark / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 4976 – Opioid Review Modernization Act of 2016 (Sponsored by Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 4982 – Examining Opioid Treatment Infrastructure Act of 2016 (Sponsored by Rep. Bill Foster / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 4981 – Opioid Use Disorder Treatment Expansion and Modernization Act, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Larry Bucshon / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 4641 – To provide for the establishment of an inter-agency task force to review, modify, and update best practices for pain management and prescribing pain medication, and for other purposes (Subject to a Rule) (Sponsored by Rep. Susan Brooks / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 5046 – Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act of 2016, Rules Committee Print (Subject to a Rule) (Sponsored by Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner / Judiciary Committee)
05.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement in response to breaking news that a federal judge has ruled against the Obama Administration in the House of Representative’s lawsuit over Obamacare, which challenged the Administration’s authority to spend $175 million in a “cost-sharing” program that was never authorized by Congress. Congressman Issa said, “The ruling today is proof positive that the Obama Administration is continuing in its blatant and willful disregard for the Constitution. After seven and half years of continued overreach, a decision like this really should come as a surprise to nobody." "What the Constitution makes clear and the President seems not to understand is that it is Congress who writes the laws and has the power of the purse. The President simply gets to enforce these laws. The President can’t just legislate by executive order and spend the people’s money on his own terms. Obamacare has been a disaster from the beginning and today’s court decision affirms that reality.” ###
05.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- This morning Congressman Darrell Issa stopped by Washington Journal on CSPAN to talk about criminal justice reform and the growing need for congress to move on civil asset forfeiture reform. In the interview Congressman Issa said: "[Civil forfeiture] can be highway robbery at times. It allows law enforcement based on their suspicion that something is being used in a crime with no arrest and no probable cause in some cases ... for police to simply say I’m going to take your cash. ... I think the most egregious part of this, with the exception of a few states like California, [law enforcement] never have to bring a charge against you in order to keep your assets. Wait a second... where’s my presumption of innocence and where is my personal property?" ... "We need to do a couple things … we need to put safeguards in so that police abuses are quickly stemmed. We need to make sure that the person who feels that they had money wrongfully taken away, starts off with a quick remedy to get it back that doesn’t cost them a fortune. And we need to take away the incentive for these funds to always end up benefiting the entity taking it." ... "I don’t want to disparage law enforcement because these laws are being used properly most of the time. The problem is: 'most of the time' isn’t good enough when it's your civil rights." ... "We have a bipartisan group working on criminal justice reform -- Jim Sensenbrenner heads a lot of it – and this is part of criminal justice reform. This is a program that needs to be fixed federally and hopefully the states will follow." The full segment can be watched here.
05.04.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Today, Congressman Darrell Issa wrote an op-ed appearing in the Los Angeles Times, outlining the need for Congress to take up civil asset forfeiture reform. Some of the highlights from the piece are below. You can also check out the full length article here. "'We thought America was the best in the world.' 'This can't be happening.' That's how Saw Marvellous Soe and Eh Wah described their astonishment after police seized more than $53,000 in cash from ... a Christian rock band that played in 19 U.S. cities, raising money from concerts to support an orphanage in Thailand and a Christian college in Burma." … "Civil asset forfeiture allows police to seize property as long as they believe that the assets in question were somehow connected to criminal activity. 'As long as they believe' — that's the key part. Authorities don't have to actually prove the person was guilty of a crime. They don't have to even file charges. The presumption of innocence is thrown to the wayside." … "Under current law, most states allow police departments to absorb up to 100% of the value of the confiscated property — whether it's cash, cars, houses or guns — and use the proceeds to pad their budgets. It's an obvious conflict of interest — and boy, is it profitable for law enforcement agencies...But unless Congress takes action, state efforts to stop civil forfeiture abuse mean very little." ... "In 2014, the latest year for which data is available, police officers took more property from American citizens under civil asset forfeiture ($5 billion) than criminals took in burglaries ($3.5 billion), according to research from the Institute for Justice." ... "As more and more states reconsider their civil forfeiture systems, the federal government needs to set a framework for smart reform. That starts with closing the equitable-sharing loophole, and requiring police to satisfy a higher burden of proof to a judge before seizing property under federal law." The full length piece from The Los Angeles Times is available here.
05.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) today penned an op-ed for National Review outlining a framework for how the United States could solve the fiscal crisis in Puerto Rico. In the piece printed today, Issa argues that instead of a bailout, the island needs a strong financial control board to put the island's finances back on track. Here are some of the highlights. You can also check out the full length piece here. How to Solve Puerto Rico's Debt Crisis National Review By: Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) May 2, 2016 “There are prudent ways to address the problem, and there are short-term patches that will only make the problem worse in the long run. A bailout, like those we saw for Wall Street and the auto companies in the wake of the financial crisis, is a non-starter. Throwing good money at bad behavior would only entrench the poor financial management that led to the mess in the first place, while making everyone worse off down the road." … “To solve this situation, we need only look back in time to how Congress addressed the financial woes of Washington, D.C., in the 1990s. The D.C. model worked because its cornerstone was a strong independent control board. In this case, Congress created an oversight board that supervised the city’s budgeting and spending practices, which stayed in place for six years until D.C. was able to get back on sound financial footing and had its fourth consecutive balanced budget." ... "But an independent control board alone is not enough. The island’s creditors – seniors, savers, and investors from all across the world — need to have a say in how the government debt is restructured. Remember, two-thirds of U.S. pension and retirement funds are invested, at least partially, in Puerto Rico municipal bonds. Seniors, retirees, and families would lose billions if these bonds aren’t repaid; they’d get only pennies on the dollar back for what was supposed to be an essentially risk-free investment." ... "Under current U.S. law, cities can declare bankruptcy. States, however, cannot. With access to the nation’s federal bankruptcy courts, states would be further emboldened to make bad financial decisions. After all, the federal bankruptcy courts would just bail them out no matter how bad a hole they had dug themselves into; this is one of the key reasons that states and other subsidiary governments haven’t had access to bankruptcy courts in the past." ... "Puerto Rico’s problems are symptomatic of irresponsible budgeting and careless overspending, and the only remedy is long-term financial reforms. These reforms must rein in the excessive spending that plagued the Commonwealth for several decades and must get the island off the addictive promise of easy money." The full length piece from National Review is available here. ###
05.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Darrell lssa was pleased with the Department of Energy's response to the letter he sent earlier this month asking the Department of Energy to hold an additional meeting in Southern California to discuss options for the nation's plan to handle the long-term storage of nuclear waste. Acknowledging Congressman Issa’s request, the Department of Energy has agreed to send the Acting Assistant Secretary for Nuclear Energy, John F. Kotek, to attend the next SONGS Community Engagement Panel meeting on June 22, where he will be seeking opinions and input from residents, elected officials and community leaders on this important issue. The Congressman encourages members of the public to attend. Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement: "This is encouraging news for Southern Californians," said Congressman Darrell Issa. "For many of us, especially those in the San Clemente area, the storage of nuclear waste at SONGS is really a major source of concern. Until we can either stop the obstruction of Yucca Mountain or find an interim solution, we're going to be stuck with more than 3.6 million pounds of high-level nuclear waste stored in less-than-optimal conditions in a highly populated area. Now that SONGS is shut down, the spent nuclear fuel and other radioactive materials should be removed from the site as soon as possible. I'm pleased the Department of Energy will be sending a senior official to the 49th District to hear more from our local communities about the need to get a long-term storage facility opened as quickly as possible." The response received from the Department of Energy is available here. Congressman Issa's original letter can be viewed here. Interested parties can make comments in the Federal Register here before the comment period closes June 15, 2016. Congressman Issa plans to submit a comment before the deadline. BACKGROUND On February 18, the U.S. Department of Energy announced a series of eight public meetings on the department's "consent-based" siting initiative to seek input on finding the long-term solutions for nuclear waste storage. The Department's announcement included 8 cities -- Denver, Chicago, Atlanta, Sacramento, Tempe, Boise, Boston, and Minneapolis. The only California city on the list was Sacramento, which, while convenient for lawmakers, didn't give Southern Californians the chance to weigh in. On April 5th, Congressman Issa sent a letter to Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz asking that they add a 9th meeting to the calendar in Southern California, arguing that with the SONGS facility front-of-mind for most Southern Californians, it makes zero sense that the Department of Energy wouldn't seek to hear from us on how to address nuclear waste storage and disposal. On April 20th, the Department of Energy responded saying that, while they couldn't add a 9th meeting to the schedule, they would send a senior Department of Energy Official, Assistant Secretary for Nuclear Energy, John F. Kotek, to the next SONGS Community Engagement Panel meeting on June 22 to hear from residents on the issue. The Congressman is encouraging members of the public to attend. Congressman Issa still intends to submit comments to the Federal Register on the Department of Energy's consent-based siting plan before the comment period expires on June 15. The public and interested parties can also weigh in by commenting in the Federal Register here.
04.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- As arguments kick off at the Supreme Court in United States v. Texas, a Supreme Court case challenging whether or not President Obama's 2014 executive actions on immigration are Constitutional, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA), member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement: "The Constitution couldn't be any clearer. It's Congress's job to write the laws and it's the President's job to see that they are faithfully executed." said Congressman Darrell Issa. "The President can't just upend the Constitution any time the Congress disagrees with him. The Separation of Powers requires the President to seek congressional approval before policies can become law. That's how the legislative process works and it is one of the things that distinguishes democracy from dictatorship, where a head of state simply rules by decree. President Obama doesn’t get to cheat the system just because it's difficult." "What this case comes down to is whether or not President Obama wildly overstepped the bounds of his office by unlawfully acting to circumvent Congress and forcing his will on the American people. I am confident the Supreme Court will uphold the Constitution and affirm that Congress -- not the President -- makes our laws." BACKGROUND November 20, 2014 -- President Obama announced unilateral changes to the nation’s immigration laws, allowing potentially millions of unlawful immigrants to stay in the United States without a vote of Congress. Before taking executive action on immigration, President Obama stated 22 times that he does not have the authority to change immigration laws on his own. December 2014 -- numerous states, led by the State of Texas, filed a lawsuit in federal court challenging President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration. February 17, 2015 -- a federal judge in Texas temporarily blocked President Obama’s unilateral immigration actions. November 10, 2015 -- the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the injunction preventing President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration from being implemented. Following this decision, the Supreme Court announced that it would take up the case. March 17, 2016 -- the House approved H. Res. 639, a resolution allowing the Speaker to file a brief on behalf of the House of Representatives defending Congress’ Article I powers to write our nation’s laws.
04.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Responding to the newly leaked encryption bill from the Senate Intelligence Committee drafted by Senators Burr (R-NC) and Feinstein (D-CA) that would mandate companies provide "technical assistance" to companies seeking to access encrypted data, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement: "The legislation leaked today is about as flawed and technically-naive as a piece of legislation can get. Mandating that companies weaken our security to give government secret backdoor access into our devices would be a massive blow to American's right to privacy and frankly would also be downright dangerous," said Congressman Darrell Issa, Chairman of the House Judiciary subcommittee responsible for the nation's Internet policy. "As Americans are living more and more of their lives not only online but also in-concert with more connected devices than ever before, Americans deserve to know that the information retained on these devices will remain secure. This legislation would effectively prohibit any company who wants to improve the security of its products from doing so because government's ability to access our personal and private information is more important than innovation." "I have worked with and respect Senator Burr and Senator Feinstein a great deal. I look forward to working with Members of Congress, cybersecurity experts, and more to educate and help show lawmakers why encryption makes us all safer -- and not the other way around." ###
04.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to breaking news that the Obama Administration is relenting in the fight over some documents relating to Fast and Furious, a controversial gun-walking scheme that was investigated by Congressman Darrell Issa as then-Chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Congressman Darrell Issa released the following statement: “After 4 years of objection and delay, President Obama has finally been forced to give up additional documents related to why senior Justice Department officials in his administration lied to Congress.” “What we need from the President is an explanation of why he felt these documents couldn’t been seen by the American people and why there has been no real accountability for the officials involved. Was he protecting the failed gun-walking operation or the cover-up?" “Unfortunately, the President has not yet fully complied with Congressional subpoenas. I am pleased to learn that the House of Representatives is continuing to prosecute the legal case against the President’s claim of executive privilege until all documents related to the Fast and Furious investigation have been delivered.” ##
04.05.2016	VISTA, Calif. -- Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) is ratcheting up pressure on the Department of Energy to seek additional input from Southern California residents on how the nation should handle nuclear waste storage, given the presence of the San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station (SONGS) in the area. Congressman Issa today sent a letter (below) to Department of Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz urging the secretary to add Southern California to its list of six previously-announced locations for public forums on the matter, arguing that future storage of more than 3.6 million pounds of high-level nuclear waste at the site makes Southern California residents informed and active on the need to safely remove and store radioactive waste. "With the San Onofre nuclear facility at the front of Southern Californians' minds, it makes zero sense that the Department of Energy wouldn't seek to hear from us on how to address nuclear waste storage and disposal," said Congressman Darrell Issa. "The SONGS facility is scheduled to store more than 3.6 million pounds of high-level radioactive waste that residents in San Clemente and the surrounding areas want to havecontained and removed safely. I encourage the Department of Energy to take this opportunity to engage with the local communities to find out the best way to move forward swiftly on this important issue." On March 28, 2016, the Department of Energy announced locations for the meetings where they are seeking input from the public regarding the management of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste, but did not include a meeting in Southern California. Interested parties can make comments in the Federal Register here before the comment period closes June 15, 2016. Congressman Issa plans to submit a comment before the deadline. A full copy of the letter is available here and below: April 5, 2016 The Honorable Ernest Moniz Secretary of Energy 1000 Independence Avenue SW Washington, D.C. 20585 Dear Mr. Secretary: Earlier this year, the Department of Energy (DOE) announced a series of public meetings throughout the United States to engage with communities regarding the siting of spent nuclear fuel (SNF) and radioactive waste. I write to respectfully request you to add an additional public meeting in my Southern California Congressional District, California’s 49th. The addition of a public forum in Southern California is both necessary and beneficial. My district is home to the San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station (SONGS), which is in the initial stages of decommissioning which is expected to be completed by 2031. Positioned near an active fault line, sandwiched between the heavily-trafficked I-5 Freeway and the Pacific Ocean, and bordering the densely-populated Orange and San Diego Counties, the storage of more than 3.6 million pounds of high-level nuclear waste at the SONGS site is of great concern to the over 8 million people of this region. Residents, elected officials, businesses, and community leaders throughout the neighboring cities in Orange and San Diego Counties are informed and active on the need to remove and secure SNF. In fact, the robust SONGS Community Engagement Panel holds public meetings engaging with involved parties including SONGS owners Southern California Edison, San Diego Gas and Electric, the City of Riverside, and regulatory agencies at all levels of government. The local governments regularly review emerging Congressional proposals and weigh in with community perspectives. Adding a public meeting in our region will allow DOE to hear directly from those interested in a safe and secure solution to our site’s issues. I will be urging our residents to provide written public comments in the Federal Register. However, an in-person public forum is needed to enable greater participation and active conversation with local specialists which is necessary to fulfill the goals outlined in the DOE’s consent-based approach. I thank you for your attention to this important matter and for considering adding a public meeting in California’s 49th Congressional District regarding SNF and radioactive waste. I look forward to hearing from you regarding the scheduling of such an event. Sincerely, Darrell Issa Member of Congress
03.31.2016	VISTA, Calif. -- On Wednesday, April 6, 2016, Congressman Darrell Issa will recognize seven local area students who have gone above and beyond in their contributions to our community. Congressman Issa will present the Congressional Award for Public Service at a ceremony in his Vista Office at 1:00PM where he will be joined by the award-winners, their families, and members of the media. A gold, silver, or bronze medal is given to participants based on setting and accomplishing personal goals in the areas of volunteer public service, personal development, physical fitness and expedition. WHO: Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) WHAT: Congressional Award Ceremony WHEN: Wednesday, April 6, 2016 at 1:00PM WHERE: Issa's Vista Office 1800 Thibodo Road, Suite 310 Vista, California 92081 WHY: To recognize students going above-and-beyond to better our community. Looking forward to the upcoming ceremony, Congressman Darrell Issa had the following to say: "Bar none, the best students in America come from right here in San Diego and Orange Counties," said Congressman Darrell Issa. "These young Americans have worked hard to better themselves, our community and everyone around them. I congratulate them on their tremendous achievements and look forward to honoring their accomplishments at our Congressional Award Ceremony next week." This year's Congressional Award Recipients are: David Bao, Silver Medalist, from Ladera Ranch, California Luke Lindgren, Bronze Medalist, from Rancho Santa Fe, California Samuel “Bubba” Sugarman, Gold Medalist, from Encinitas, California Sarah Chen, Bronze & Silver Medalist, from Ladera Ranch, California Chris Jiang, Bronze & Silver Medalist, Ladera Ranch, California Sissy Sugarman, Bronze Medalist, from Encinitas, California Kaily Johnson, Bronze Medalist, from San Juan Capistrano, California For full bios and a summary of the work they completed to be honored see here. BACKGROUND: The Congressional Award is the United States Congress’ award for young Americans. It is non-partisan, voluntary, and non-competitive. The program is open to all 14 to 23 year-olds. Young people may register when they turn 13 1/2 years old and must complete their activities before their 24th birthday. Participants earn Bronze, Silver, and Gold Congressional Award Certificates and Bronze, Silver, and Gold Congressional Award Medals. Each level involves setting goals in four program areas: Volunteer Public Service, Personal Development, Physical Fitness, and Expedition/Exploration. Earning the Congressional Award is a fun and interesting way to get more involved in something you already enjoy or something you’d like to try for the first time. You move at your own pace – on your own or with your friends. This is not an award for past accomplishments. Instead, you are honored for achieving your own challenging goals after registering for the program. More info here.
03.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Responding to news that the FBI has successfully opened the iPhone from the Apple/FBI dispute and that it will abandon its bid to obtain a court order mandating that Apple unlock the iPhone, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement: "This lawsuit may be over, but the Constitutional and privacy questions it raised are not," said Congressman Darrell Issa. "Those worried about our privacy should stay wary -- just because the government was able to get into this one phone does not mean that their quest for a secret key into our devices is over." "That the government was able to gain access to the phone without Apple's help is certainly preferable to issuing a wide-reaching court decision that would grant the government backdoor access into every American's phone and other devices, but the fundamental question over how we, as citizens, expect our government to be able to access -- or not access -- our personal information still remains." "There most certainly will be other cases and, as we debate these issues as a nation, we must remain critical of government attempts to take advantage of sensitive situations to amass greater government power and control which are almost always at the expense of our personal freedom and privacy." BACKGROUND: Congressman Issa has been a leading tech policy maker and a vocal advocate in support of strong encryption, making several media appearances, writing op-eds in WIRED and the Los Angeles Times, and questioning FBI Director James Comey at a hearing on encryption before the House Judiciary Committee. Before joining public service, Issa served as CEO of Directed Electronics and previously served as the chairman of the Consumer Electronics Association. At the height of his career in business, Issa served as CEO of California-based Directed Electronics, a company that Issa founded and built in the mid-1990s to become the nation’s largest manufacturer of vehicle anti-theft devices, including the highly-successful Viper system. In 1994, Issa was named Entrepreneur of the Year by Inc. Magazine, Ernst & Young and The San Diego Union Tribune. During his leadership of Directed Electronics, Issa served as chairman of the Consumer Electronics Association, an organization of 2000 companies within the consumer technology industry that hosts the annual.
03.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) is honored to have been selected as a member of the bipartisan Encryption Working Group announced today by the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on Energy and Commerce. The working group will be formed by Members of Congress, from both parties, and will examine, research and make recommendations for potential policy solutions to protect the benefits of encryption -- namely, the privacy and security of our personal information in a digital age -- while seeking ways for law enforcement to have the tools it needs to investigate crime. Congressman Darrell Issa released the following statement: "In the last few weeks, we've heard a lot of debate over privacy and encryption, security and backdoors. I am honored to be a part of this working group so that lawmakers, on all sides of the issue, can get together to talk about the best path forward to protect the privacy and security of our personal information in the digital age that is the 21st century." Members of the working group are: Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) Darrell Issa (R-CA) Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) Suzan DelBene (D-WA) Bill Johnson (R-OH) Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) Yvette Clarke (D-NY) Joe Kennedy (D-MA) BACKGROUND: Congressman Issa has been a leading tech policy maker and a vocal advocate in support of strong encryption, making several media appearances, writing op-eds in WIRED and the Los Angeles Times, and questioning FBI Director James Comey at a hearing on encryption before the House Judiciary Committee. Before joining public service, Issa served as CEO of Directed Electronics and previously served as the chairman of the Consumer Electronics Association. At the height of his career in business, Issa served as CEO of California-based Directed Electronics, a company that Issa founded and built in the mid-1990s to become the nation’s largest manufacturer of vehicle anti-theft devices, including the highly-successful Viper system. In 1994, Issa was named Entrepreneur of the Year by Inc. Magazine, Ernst & Young and The San Diego Union Tribune. During his leadership of Directed Electronics, Issa served as chairman of the Consumer Electronics Association, an organization of 2000 companies within the consumer technology industry that hosts the annual Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.
03.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement in response to news that the U.S. Senate unanimously passed legislation that would make it easier for Americans to obtain government records under the Freedom of Information Act: "To reign in government, we must make it easy for everyone to see its overreach. Right now, most FOIA requests are handled with the mindset that government should withhold as much information as possible and deny any request determined to be too sensitive or too embarrassing to disclose. The bipartisan legislation passed by the Senate today will help level the playing field to ensure the American people have access to the information they are entitled to." Congressman Issa continued, "Because the House has already passed similar legislation which I introduced last February, I am looking forward to hammering out the details between the two bills to send a final solution to the President's desk for his approval as soon as possible." The bill passed by the Senate today is similar to Congressman Issa's FOIA Oversight and Implementation Act (H.R. 653) that passed earlier this January. The bills will be merged in conference before being sent to the President's desk for his signature and final approval.
03.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA), a leading tech policy maker and Chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet, will be attending South by Southwest Interactive this weekend from Saturday, March 12th to Sunday, March 13th, 2016. The Congressman will speak on a panel entitled "Tech and a Modern Government" on Saturday, March 12th from 11:00AM to 12:00PM at the Omni Downtown Capital Ballroom and will be available to members of the media throughout the weekend. To request an interview during the conference, please contact Calvin Moore at calvin.moore@mail.house.gov or 202-740-3382. The panel will feature Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA), Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Alan Davidson, Director of the Digital Economy for the U.S. Department of Commerce, and Laura Cox Caplan, Principal-In-Charge of Public Policy for PricewaterhouseCoopers. It will discuss how we can bring innovation back to government and how technology can make government more open and accessible to the people it serves. WHO: Congressman Darrell Issa WHAT: Attending and Speaking at South by Southwest Interactive 2016 WHEN: Saturday March 12 to Sunday March 13 WHERE: Austin, Texas WHY: To talk about how technology can make government more open and accessible to the people it serves and to open a dialogue on the challenge the tech community is facing and what policymakers can do to address their concerns. See More Information About The PanelBACKGROUND: Congressman Darrell Issa has been a national leader in tech policy. Most recently, Congressman Issa has been a vocal advocate for privacy and encryption in the latest dispute between the Apple and the FBI. In the past few weeks, Congressman Issa has made multiple media appearances, written op-eds in WIRED and the Los Angeles Times speaking out on behalf of encryption and questioned FBI Director James Comey at a hearing on encryption before the House Judiciary Committee. He was a major supporter of the DATA Act which was signed into law in 2014, requiring the U.S. Government to publish information on federal expenditures as open, standardized, and searchable data to help taxpayers better track and understand how the government spends their tax dollars. He has also introduced the Federal Information Technology Acquisition Reform Act which would help streamline the way government purchases technology and reduce waste in information technology spending from the federal government. Before joining public service, Issa served as CEO of Directed Electronics and previously served as the chairman of the Consumer Electronics Association. At the height of his career in business, Issa served as CEO of California-based Directed Electronics, a company that Issa founded and built in the mid-1990s to become the nation’s largest manufacturer of vehicle anti-theft devices, including the highly-successful Viper system. In 1994, Issa was named Entrepreneur of the Year by Inc. Magazine, Ernst & Young and The San Diego Union Tribune. During his leadership of Directed Electronics, Issa served as chairman of the Consumer Electronics Association, an organization of 2000 companies within the consumer technology industry that hosts the annual Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.
03.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On news of Nancy Reagan’s passing, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement: "To meet Nancy Reagan was to witness her quiet dignity and personal resolve. To know her was to marvel at her tireless dedication and boundless love for her husband. There was no bigger champion of the man nor any fiercer protector of his memory than Nancy Reagan. For that alone, we owe her an incalculable debt of gratitude." "Nancy’s dedication to our country and her passion for the causes she believed in were second to none. Whenever we were together, from events at the Reagan Presidential Library, to the christening of the U.S.S. Reagan, nothing was more clear than just how much she loved ‘her Ronnie.’" "They say great men are nothing more than the ones who helped them get there. With Nancy, there’s no question that her unyielding devotion helped her husband achieve all that he did. I am honored to have had her friendship and she will truly be missed.” Representative Darrell Issa sits with Nancy Reagan aboard the USS Ronald Reagan 30 or 40 nautical miles off the coast of San Diego on the ship's maiden voyage.
03.01.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed Congressman Darrell Issa’s (R-CA) bill to rename the Camp Pendleton Post Office to honor members of units from Camp Pendleton who have received the Medal of Honor. Congressman Darrell Issa released the following statement: “The bravery and heroism displayed by our nation’s Medal of Honor recipients is second to none. These men and women have given so much – some even paying the ultimate sacrifice – in order to defend our freedom. It is my hope that this renaming will serve as a living reminder for all those who visit of the incredible bravery and selflessness of our servicemen and servicewomen. We remain forever indebted to these brave individuals, and their families, for their service and sacrifice for our great nation.” If cleared by the Senate and signed into law, H.R. 136 would designate the main post office at the base to the “Camp Pendleton Medal of Honor Post Office” and will specifically recognize service members with strong ties to Camp Pendleton who have received the Congressional Medal of Honor – the nation’s highest award for valor and heroism. The post office facility is located at 1103 USPS Building 1103, Camp Pendleton, California, 92055. You can view a full copy of the bill text here. Camp Pendleton Marines who have received the Medal of Honor include (not an exhaustive list): First Lieutenant John V. Power, who was awarded the medal posthumously in 1944 by President Franklin Roosevelt, for his service as platoon leader, during the landing and Battle of Namur Island, Kwajalein Atoll, Marshall Islands on February 1, 1944. Lieutenant Power was activated to Camp Pendleton in 1943. Major Robert Dunlap, who was awarded the medal in 1945 by President Harry Truman for his service as Commanding Officer of Company C, First Battalion, Twenty-Sixth Marines, Fifth Marine Division, in action against enemy Japanese forces during the seizure of Iwo Jima in the Volcano Islands on February 20-21, 1945. Major Dunlap was activated to Camp Pendleton in 1950. Private First Class Albert Schwab, who was awarded the medal posthumously in 1946 by Rear Admiral J. J. Clark, for his service as a Flame Thrower Operator in action against enemy Japanese forces on Okinawa Shima on one of the Ryukyu Islands on May 7, 1945. Private Schwab was reactivated at Camp Pendleton in 1949. Second Lieutenant Sherrod Skinner, Jr., who was awarded the medal posthumously in 1953 by Vice President Richard Nixon, for his service as an Artillery Forward Observer in action against enemy aggressor forces in Korea on the night of October 26, 1952. Lieutenant Skinner was reactivated at Camp Pendleton in 1950. Staff Sergeant Karl Taylor, who was awarded the medal posthumously in 1971 by President Nixon, for his service as Company Gunnery Sergeant during Operation MEADE RIVER in the Republic of Vietnam on the night of December 8, 1968. Sergeant Taylor trained at Camp Pendleton.
02.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Over the weekend, Representative Darrell Issa (R-CA) penned an op-ed in WIRED Magazine where he argues that the ongoing battle between the FBI and Apple is about more than just one iPhone, it is about government access to our personal data. Here are some of the highlights. You can also check out the full length piece here. “… the FBI cannot mandate that Apple create a backdoor to override the iPhone’s encryption features without creating a dangerous precedent that could cast a long shadow over the future of how we use our phones, laptops and the internet for years to come. We must understand the gravity of what is at stake if we give government this unprecedented review of our private communications.” … “As Americans are increasingly living their lives online, it’s now become just as important for people to be able to secure their phones, laptops, credit card numbers, and accounts from intruders as it is to secure their homes.” ... "It’s already been uncovered that the Justice Department is seeking similar court orders in as many as 12 other cases to give them access to the data inside locked iPhones. These cases are all over the nation: four in Illinois, three in New York, two in California, two in Ohio, and one in Massachusetts. And reports indicate that not these cases do not involve an act of terrorism." ... "If you were worried about the slippery slope we’d create by allowing government access to this single phone, well… it’s already here." ... "...as Congress begins contemplating revisions to the 1789 statue upon which this court order is built, lawmakers must be sure to protect citizens’ right to privacy and preserve the integrity of the online security protocols that help keep us all safe." The full length piece from WIRED over the weekend is available here.
02.24.2016	VISTA, C.A. – On Monday, February 29th, until Friday, April 29th the Office of Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) will be accepting artwork from the 49th Congressional District for entry into the Annual Congressional Art Competition. The Congressional Art Competition is an opportunity for high school students from across the country to submit artwork ranging from drawings and paintings, to photography and computer generated designs for national recognition. The winning artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year and the artist is presented with two round trip tickets courtesy of Southwest Airlines, to Washington, D.C. to attend an exclusive reception inside the U.S. Capitol Building. Congressman Darrell Issa had the following to say: “We have a lot of gifted students here in San Diego and Orange counties. The Congressional Art Competition is a great experience for the amazing artists in our district to showcase their talents to visitors from all over the nation. I can’t wait to see this year’s winners.” Artists can submit any original, two-dimensional piece of art as long as it is no larger than 28" x 28" x 4" -- including the frame -- and weighing no more than 15 lbs. A variety of mediums are welcome including: Paintings: oil, acrylics, watercolor, Drawings: pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, markers, Prints: lithographs, silkscreen, block prints, Mixed Media: use of more than two mediums such as pencil, ink, watercolor, etc., Computer generated art and Photography. Submission Details: WHO: The Office of Congressman Darrell Issa WHAT: 2016 Congressional Art Competition WHERE: Online at http://1.usa.gov/1VsGQ0X WHEN: Monday 2/29 – Friday 4/29 WHY: To show case the amazing artwork from students in our district Please contact Sunana Batra at the Vista District office at 760-599-5000 for further information or if you are interested in participating. For more information visit our website at: https://www.issa.house.gov/student-center/congressional-art-competition
02.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Darrell Issa (R-Ca.) issued the following statement on the President’s plan to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay and relocate some of the most dangerous detainees into the United States: “President Obama is once again proving his willingness to set aside the rule of law to pursue his own reckless agenda no matter the consequences for the American people. The plan announced today would take detainees deemed too dangerous to transfer to other countries and bring them right into our own backyards. It risks the lives and safety of American citizens and it’s not what the people expect of our commander-in-chief.” “The administration has already let nearly 150 detainees go free, only to see many of them return to terrorist groups and rejoin the fight against us. Instead of focusing on finding new homes for terrorists, the President should refocus his efforts on winning the War on Terror and bringing an end to the extremist groups seeking to do us harm.”
02.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Darrell Issa (R-California) appeared on CNBC’s Squawk Alley this morning to discuss the growing debate over Apple and encryption technology. An excerpt from the interview is below and can be watched online here. “One of the biggest problems that we face in Washington is, since 9/11, we know a lot more about you than you know about your government. And government likes that. But that's not what the American people want. It's not what our Constitution envisioned. I'm all for cooperating, and I expect Apple to cooperate to the ability they have, but when Apple [or another tech company] says to somebody, we're giving you encryption, it's in our software, it’s protected, you can't be hacked by the Chinese or Russians or French or whoever, they should not be forced to undermine that.”
02.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to the growing controversy over Apple’s decision to safeguard its encryption technology, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-California), member of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement: “Allowing the government to mandate that Apple undermine its encryption technology to create a backdoor for government agents is unlawful, unwise and unsafe. Companies should comply with warrants to the fullest extent they are able, but mandating that companies completely reengineer their own software to create hacking tools against their will would set a dangerous precedent for our future.” “It’s crucial for Americans to view the larger implications of this case beyond that of a single phone; it’s about whether or not government should have the ability to access the devices we all use every day to store personal and private information. No company should be forced to intentionally weaken their own products at the bidding of a government agent. Apple has cooperated with requests from law enforcement using the information that they have access to. Going any further would do real harm to Americans’ right to privacy and would almost certainly undermine the freedoms that our government should be working to protect.”
02.14.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement after the passing of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia: “I am deeply sorry to hear of the passing of Justice Antonin Scalia. This is a profound loss for the Supreme Court and for the United States of America. Appointed by President Ronald Reagan in 1986, Justice Scalia spent his last three decades as an ardent defender and protector of the U.S. Constitution on the nation’s highest court. Throughout that time, he remained a champion of judicial restraint and a true lion whose views were firmly anchored in the Constitution and its fundamental guarantee of liberty. When he roared, which he often did, you were wise to take notice. Justice Scalia’s jurisprudence will be remembered as prudent, deliberative, and consistent with the esteemed tenets that any member of our federal judiciary should embody. There was no one more in tune with recognizing the importance of the Constitution’s original intent and refraining from legislating personal views from the bench than Justice Scalia and the next justice must respect the Constitution in the same way. As a Member of Congress, I always appreciated how accessible Justice Scalia made himself to the Legislative Branch. I want to extend my deepest condolences to Justice Scalia’s family and hope that they will find solace in the profound and lasting impact of his legacy that will now be widely mourned throughout the nation he served and loved.”
02.04.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement regarding developments in the Secretary Clinton email scandal today: “From someone who wants to be Commander-in-Chief, the American people deserve the truth, rather than Secretary Hillary Clinton’s murky denials and a drummed up ‘everybody did it’ defense meant to distract. The attempt to paint her predecessors in the State Department as equal offenders in mishandling classified material is an insult to what we now know to be the truth. “Official investigations have confirmed that Secretary Clinton’s unsecure server stored more than 1,000 emails containing classified information, including some classified at the very highest levels. Her guarantee to the nation that the number was zero now seems more like desperation than news cycle spin. “I trust that the FBI, Inspectors General and other official agencies will commit to a full accounting of this scandal and remember their fundamental duty to the principles of government transparency, public accountability, and our national security.”
01.19.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement regarding today’s U.S. District Court ruling to deny the Department of Justice’s argument of Executive Privilege to prevent the release of documents to Congress related to the botched gun-walking program known as Operation Fast and Furious: “The ruling today by the U.S. District Court in Washington, D.C. is an acknowledgement that this Administration was wrong to withhold information related to Operation Fast and Furious, which necessitated holding Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress. The House of Representatives has an obligation to the public and the victims of a reckless Department of Justice operation to continue this push for the full truth. “For over three years, the Obama Administration has refused to provide documents to Congressional investigators related to the misguided and deadly Operation Fast and Furious gun-walking program. Today’s ruling is a step toward accountability for this Administration and is a judicial rebuke of the President’s unwillingness to be forthcoming to the America people. This decision underscores the inappropriateness of President Obama’s politically motivated assertion of Executive Privilege. Those responsible have gone to great lengths to obstruct the truth and to cover up the motives, facts, and circumstances surrounding why they lied to Congress about a program that put weapons in the hands of drug cartels.”
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives approved H.R. 653, the FOIA Oversight and Implementation Act. This bipartisan bill, sponsored by Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, will strengthen our nation’s Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) laws. FOIA is a critical tool through which the public obtains information about the actions and work of their government. H.R. 653 would establish a presumption of openness for releasing information while creating electronic accessibility for frequently released information. This Issa-Cummings bill would also strengthen oversight and review of FOIA compliance, as well as dispute resolution from the Office of Government Information Services. “It is appropriate that legislation to enhance transparency and openness of government is one of the first bills approved by the House this year,” said Issa. “FOIA continues to be one of the most effective tools for Americans to access public information and it allows a crucial check on government power. I look forward to working with our Senate counterparts to send a final bill to the President’s desk swiftly.” Key Components of H.R. 653 include: The FOIA Oversight and Implementation Act of 2015 Sponsored by Representatives Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Elijah Cummings (D-MD) Cosponsored by 55 Representatives from both parties Establishes Presumption of Openness The bill would require agencies to process FOIA requests with a presumption of openness. Under this Act, an agency could only withhold information if the agency reasonably foresees that disclosure would cause specific identifiable harm. The bill places the burden on the agency to demonstrate why information may be withheld, instead of on the public to justify release. Requires Agencies to Post Frequently Requested Information Agencies would be required to post all releasable information requested three or more times online in a publicly accessible format. Agencies would also have to review their systems of records and post releasable information online if it is likely to be in the public interest. Agency annual FOIA reports would be required to include how many records it made available proactively. All raw data in agency FOIA reports would also be made available online in an accessible and fully useable format. Imposes a 25 Year Sunset on Applications of FOIA’s Exemption 5 The bill imposes a 25 year sunset on an agency’s use of the “deliberative process” exemption under FOIA. Establishes Single Portal for FOIA Requesters The FOIA Act will require the operation of a consolidated online request portal that allows a member of the public to submit a request for records from a single website. Strengthens the FOIA Ombudsman (Office of Government Information Services) The Office of Government Information Services (OGIS) would have increased independence under the FOIA Act which would authorize OGIS to report directly to Congress without interagency review. Strengthens Oversight and Review of FOIA Compliance OGIS and the agency Chief FOIA Officers would be responsible for regularly reviewing FOIA compliance. These reviews shall include review of fee assessment and waivers, backlogs, overuse of exemptions, and other problems with FOIA. Agencies will also be responsible for reporting more information on FOIA including the number of times it posted records proactively, engaged in dispute resolution, and invoked law enforcement exclusions. Strengthens Dispute Resolution The FOIA Act would allow requesters to have 90 days to file an appeal under FOIA (previously undefined), as well as their right to seek mediation services and dispute resolution from both OGIS and the agency’s Chief FOIA Officer. Agencies will also have to report the number of times it engaged in dispute resolution and update their regulations to provide direction to agencies on mediation services. Mandates FOIA Regulations Updates Each agency shall update its FOIA regulations within 180 days of enactment. The regulations would be required to include procedures on dispute resolution and working with OGIS. OGIS would be required to review whether agencies comply with this requirement and if agencies fail to update their regulations they will have to report to Congress on their failure to do so and will be subject to a review of their FOIA compliance by their Office of Inspector General. Establishes Chief FOIA Officer Council A Chief FOIA Officer Council, modeled after the CIO Council, would be established by the FOIA Act which would include all Chief FOIA Officers.
01.11.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – On Monday, January 11, the House of Representatives is set to pass H.R. 653, the FOIA Oversight and Implementation Act, which was introduced by Representatives Darrell Issa and Elijah Cummings. The bill bolsters and modernizes how Americans get information from the federal government through Freedom of Information Act requests. Statement from Congressman Issa on the pending House vote on FOIA reform: "I'm optimistic that this bill passes the House with bipartisan support and will be signed into law in the near future. The bill represents major common sense reforms that give citizen watchdogs and journalists easier access to information to hold the government accountable. Chiefly, it changes the assumption that government information is secret to a presumption of openness and modernizes the system for processing requests so that agency responses are more efficient."
01.06.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – In response to President Barack Obama’s announcement of impending executive orders related to gun control, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement: “Don’t let the President’s speech today fool you. These executive actions are solutions that don’t fit the real problem. Little more than a month ago, extremists killed innocent civilians in San Bernardino, California, highlighting the terrorism being inspired by Islamic radicals and imported to America. In response to this and the gruesome attacks in Paris in November, our Commander-in-Chief has done little to protect us. Instead, the President merely went back to his old playbook of more control, more bureaucracy, and more federal spending. We don’t need the same failed policies from an Administration that couldn’t keep track of its own guns during the botched Fast and Furious gun walking scandal that put weapons in the hands of violent drug cartels. The American people deserve a commitment to enforcing our current laws and preventing those who seek to undermine our security.”
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - In response to reports that the United Nations Security Council has passed a Resolution on the peace process for Syria, Representative Darrell Issa (R-CA), a senior member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, released the following statement: “I'm cautiously hopeful regarding the Resolution adopted by the United Nations Security Council today outlining a peace process for Syria. It sets a timeline for elections to take place in 18 months, but makes no mention of whether or not Syrian President Bashar al-Assad will be allowed to participate in them. “The transition away from Assad's rule is long past due. His ruthless, authoritarian regime has left hundreds of thousands of his own people dead in a brutal, multi-year civil war that has destabilized the region and created the conditions for ISIS to flourish. “The new government must protect the rights of Syria's religious and ethnic minorities, as well as provide for the safe return home of large numbers of Syrians who have sought refuge elsewhere.” The five Permanent Members of the United Nations Security Council include the United States, the United Kingdom, France, China, and Russia.
12.17.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49), a senior member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, released the following statement after the House passage of the bipartisan H.R. 3750, “First Responders Passport Act of 2015”: “America is one of the most generous countries on earth. Following natural disasters, our first responders often travel to assist foreign communities in the aftermath of hurricanes, earthquakes, and other catastrophes. This legislation will remove one small hurdle in their journey to assist by waiving passport fees for these first responders to ensure they are always ready to render life-saving aid to those in need.” Issa joined with Representative Brendan Boyle of Pennsylvania on the legislation, which House Committee on Foreign Affairs Chairman Ed Royce and Ranking Member Eliot Engel cosponsored along with 24 other members. The House Committee on Foreign Affairs approved the First Responders Passport Act unanimously on November 4, 2015.
12.07.2015	“The President’s intention tonight was to reassure a concerned nation about his Administration’s efforts to combat ISIS and keep the homeland secure. “But there was no clear strategy for victory over ISIS, just a rehashing of rhetoric we’ve heard for the last year, and a renewed commitment to a halfhearted plan that has allowed a determined enemy to always be one step ahead of this President’s proclamations of containment or assurances about our nation’s security. “ISIS-inspired violence has now reached us here in California, and a group of dedicated public servants in San Bernardino have lost their lives. We can’t afford another year, or even another day of failed Presidential leadership in the face of radical Islamic extremism. “This crisis demands a commander-in-chief with a comprehensive military and counter-terrorism strategy to defeat ISIS and ISIS-inspired attacks, not another lecture on gun control or primer on the religion of peace. Wake up, Mr. President!”
11.13.2015	Office will accept submissions from high-school students within California’s 49th Congressional district WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa’s office is excited to announce its participation in the Second Annual Congressional App Challenge (CAC), a competition for U.S. high school students. This competition is designed to engage student creativity and encourage their participation in STEM education fields. Established by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, the App Challenge is a nationwide event where one winner from each participating office will be recognized for creating an innovative software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. Apps are judged based on the quality of the idea, including creativity and originality; implementation of the idea, including user experience and design; and demonstrated excellence of coding and programming skills. The Congressional App Challenge is open to all high school students in California’s 49th Congressional District. Students entering the competition must submit their app’s source code online during the Competition Submission Period between 12:00 PM Eastern Standard Time on November 9, 2015 and 12:00 AM on January 15, 2016. They must also provide a YouTube or Vimeo video demo explaining their app and what they learned through the competition process. The winner from California’s 49th District, chosen by an independent panel of expert judges, will be featured on https://www.StudentAppChallenge.us, and the winning app will also be on display in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C., honoring all winners from across the country. The Internet Education Foundation will be serving as the operational “sponsor” of the CAC. For further information , please visit https://www.congressionalappchallenge.us and http://issa.house.gov/app-challenge.
11.06.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House Committee on Foreign Affairs passed the First Responders Passport Act of 2015, sponsored by Representatives Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Brendan Boyle (D-PA). The bill is further supported by Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA), Ranking Member Eliot Engel (D-NY), and twenty additional bipartisan cosponsors. The First Responders Passport Act of 2015, H.R. 3750, would waive passport fees for certain first responders who travel to foreign countries to aid in disaster response. According to Issa, “Our nation’s first responders are often called upon to help foreign communities devastated by natural disasters. From emergency medical technicians to firefighters, our American response teams regularly give more than their time and expertise by personally paying the costs associated with traveling abroad. In order to reduce this burden, the First Responders Passport Act waives U.S. passport fees, including those for renewal, to ensure first responders coordinated by the U.S. Government are always at the ready to help people in need.” The bill passed the House Committee on Foreign Affairs by unanimous vote and now awaits action on the floor of the House of Representatives.
11.04.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) today released the following statement in response to the news that former North Carolina representative Howard Coble has passed away: "Today, we mourn the passing of former Representative Howard Coble. I am proud to have served with Howard, a serious legislator who accomplished much for North Carolina over his 30 years of service. Most memorable was Howard’s ability to bring laughter and joy to all in his company through his quick wit, lasting smile, and dapper style."
10.29.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) today released the following statement in response to the election of Paul Ryan as Speaker of the House: “Paul Ryan is a friend and respected colleague. His election as Speaker gives the House the opportunity to set a new course that better serves our nation, to hold ourselves accountable, and to live up to our constitutional charge to check the power and growth of the federal government. Our country has many challenges, chief among them a struggling economy that is frustrating the dreams and aspirations of too many today, and a soaring debt that limits the possibilities of tomorrow. Speaker Ryan brings to the job the skills and expertise to lead us to solutions that will well serve the American people, and give them the efficient, effective and accountable government they deserve.”
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement following his vote against today’s budget deal: “Americans expect Congress to be the force that reins in Washington’s out-of-control spending, including an Administration that has grown our federal bureaucracy to record levels. That means doing a better job of spending within our means, not creating new spending that abandons fiscal discipline to the tune of tens of billions of dollars. “According to the Congressional Budget Office, $2.5 billion of the new spending is offset by pension payments that are accelerated – in other words, borrowing from the future in order to pay for our spending today. Other offsets are used twice – raiding one Social Security account to cover the shortfall of another. And one of the largest cost offsets is a one-time savings that doesn’t even take effect until 2025, ten years after the money is spent. I will not sell our future for this year’s budget.”
10.27.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) today released the following statement in response to House Oversight Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz's decision, along with 18 other members of the Committee, to file an impeachment resolution against IRS Commissioner John Koskinen: “This is a serious matter. The Judiciary Committee, on which I serve, will receive the impeachment resolution and consider the facts. Commissioner Koskinen oversaw the IRS at a time when key documents responsive to congressional subpoenas were destroyed. Furthermore, in sworn testimony before the Oversight Committee during my chairmanship, he misrepresented his agency’s response to lawful inquiries into the IRS targeting scandal. The American people deserve better from their public servants, but this has become an all too familiar pattern in an Administration that chooses to misdirect, obscure and outright lie rather than truthfully describe their own actions. There has to be some consequence for misleading and obstructing a congressional investigation.”
10.23.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) today responded to the Department of Justice’s announcement that it would be closing its investigation into the IRS’ targeting of conservative groups and that there would be no charges against Lois Lerner or anyone else at the agency: “The Justice Department’s decision to close the IRS targeting investigation without a single charge or prosecution is a low point of accountability in an Administration that is better known for punishing whistleblowers than the abuse and misconduct they expose. After stating that their investigation confirms that Tea Party and conservative groups were improperly targeted, they dismiss it merely as a byproduct of gross mismanagement and incompetence – ignoring volumes of evidence in the public record and efforts to obstruct legitimate inquires. “Americans’ faith in government and in the IRS in particular, has been greatly eroded by an Administration that when confronted with instances of misconduct appears complicit in shielding those involved from responsibility. Giving Lois Lerner a free pass only reinforces the idea that government officials are above the law and that there is no consequence for wrongdoing.”
10.08.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) today released a statement following House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy’s announcement that he was withdrawing from the race to become Speaker of the House: “Kevin McCarthy demonstrated the character of a true leader by taking a step back and putting the interests of our Conference ahead of his own. He remains our Leader and maintains the respect and confidence of his colleagues. Now, it’s incumbent upon us to have a robust conversation about the direction and future of our party. I pledge to play a constructive role in that discussion and hope my colleagues will do the same as we work to choose a Speaker who best represents the values and aspirations of the American people.”
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) today released a statement following the introduction of the Interim Consolidated Storage Act: "Progress on moving the nation's nuclear waste to the designated site at Yucca Mountain has been stalled for years due to political posturing. This failure of government to act has littered communities across the nation with high level nuclear waste stored in less than ideal conditions, including at the closed San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station in my own district. “The Interim Consolidated Storage Act provides for a creative solution to a critical infrastructure need. The legislation would pair a region that is volunteering to host an interim waste storage facility with communities around the country that have nuclear waste demanding a better storage solution. “The bill would neither replace Yucca Mountain – which remains our best bet for a permanent nuclear waste storage facility – nor would it take from Yucca Mountain’s funding, taking only from the interest that has accrued to the Nuclear Waste Fund. “Maintaining the status quo is not an option. The waste from the closed San Onofre nuclear plant sits near an active fault line, adjacent to the heavily-trafficked Interstate 5 and the Pacific Ocean, and sandwiched between densely-populated Orange and San Diego Counties. This is just one example out of 120, nationwide. Continuing to do nothing while the can is perpetually kicked down the road is no longer an option, and the Interim Consolidated Storage Act is a decisive, tangible step to circumvent political and bureaucratic gridlock, and it makes Americans safer in the process.”
09.17.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49), chairman of the Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet, today released the following statement following the introduction of S.2044, the Senate companion bill to the Consumer Review Freedom Act introduced in the House by Congressman Issa: "I am pleased to see my Senate colleagues, Senators John Thune (R-S.D.), Brian Schatz (D-HI), and Jerry Moran (R-KS) take up this important issue. “The Internet is a critical economic engine, increasingly used for all types of commerce and communication, including for consumer reviews. Some organizations have sought to stifle customers’ abilities to express their opinions online by threatening punitive action if a customer leaves a negative review. The mere threat of monetary penalties or fines for writing honest reviews would chill the free exchange of opinions we expect to find on the Internet. The Consumer Review Freedom Act would put a stop to these outrageous attempts to silence free speech online.”
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) today released the following statement after voting against President Obama’s proposed Iran deal: "Today I voted against the President's deal with Iran because it will provide the world's foremost state-sponsor of terrorism with over $100 billion almost immediately, access to conventional arms in five years, ballistic missile technology in eight years, and an unfettered path to the bomb in ten to fifteen years. This is the same rogue nation that actively subverts peace and stability throughout the Middle East with its material support of Hamas, Hezbollah, Assad, and Houthi militants. “The Iranian regime has made abundantly clear that it has no intention of changing its ways. And President Obama, for his part, admits that this bill only delays the inevitable, pushing the problem’s ultimate resolution onto a future Administration that will likely find the window to fully address an existential threat to America and her allies has long since passed. I fear the world will pay a terrible price for this President's failure to confront the Iranian problem at this critical moment, and to instead codify a policy of capitulation and appeasement. It is the wrong policy at the wrong time, and we must reject it."
08.12.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) today released the following statement in response to the revelation that Hillary Clinton’s private e-mail server would be taken into the custody of the FBI and Department of Justice: “If any other American had shown the same disregard for securing classified information that Hillary Clinton showed, the United States government would move quickly and decisively to hold them responsible. Months after we learned about Clinton’s secret e-mail server, the FBI and DOJ have finally mustered the motivation necessary to take it into their custody. “The only reasonable path forward is a criminal investigation. “Recall that, in 2003, Bill Clinton’s national security adviser, Sandy Berger, was caught removing five classified documents from the National Archives. He faced felony charges that were ultimately reduced to a misdemeanor, two years of probation, 100 hours of community service, a loss of security clearance for three years, and a $50,000 fine. And both the FBI and DOJ recommended felony charges over General David Petraeus’ mishandling of classified information. “After months of false assurances from Secretary Clinton, we now know that she recklessly maintained a private server containing classified documents, some of which were classified at the highest level. She also transmitted, received, and stored significantly more than five documents. The only remaining question is whether she will be held accountable for her actions.”
08.12.2015	VISTA, C.A. – On Monday, August 17th Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) will present multiple youths in his district with different congressional awards for excelling in art and public service. WHO: Rep. Darrell Issa (CA-49) WHAT: Congressional Award Presentation Ceremony WHEN: Monday, August 17th at 12:00pm PST WHERE: 1800 Thibodo Road, #310 Vista, CA 92081 Congressional Art Competition Winner: Alexander Nicita of Rancho Santa Fe Congressional Art Competition Runner Up: Alexander Dingley of Encinitas First, Congressman Issa will congratulate the district’s Congressional Art Competition winner, Alexander Nicita of Rancho Santa Fe, California for his presentation of ‘Salk’ combining photography and digital media. In addition he will recognize the Runner Up of the Art Competition, Alexander Dingley of Encinitas; La Costa Canyon High School. Both students will be accompanied by their parents and art instructors. The Congressional Art Competition is sponsored by the Congressional Institute which encourages artistic talent in each congressional district. Participation is limited to high school aged students residing in the 49th Congressional District, who create and submit an original artwork. The winning entry is displayed for eleven months as part of an art installation in the U.S. Capitol Building along with other winning submissions from around the country. Congressman Issa said: “Art is a compelling outlet that allows students to convey their perceptions of our world using various mediums including technology. In Alexander’s photograph, he effectively shows the juxtaposition of a solitary runner against the backdrop of San Diego’s Salk Institute, much like the rare innovator and the vast regulatory climate they encounter these days. I encourage all students to follow Alexander’s example and use art as a form of storytelling.” Congressional Award Recipients Alexander Nicita of Rancho Santa Fe, Bronze and Silver Medalist Lauren Rennacker of San Diego, Bronze and Silver Medalist Bhaskar Dutt of Rancho Santa Fe, Gold Medalist Jackson Lanigan of San Juan Capistrano, Silver Medalist Andrew Boyd of San Clemente, Bronze Medalist Julie Ambo of Carlsbad, Bronze and Gold Medalist Congressman Issa will also present the Congressional Award to three youths who excelled in providing community service throughout California’s 49th Congressional district. This is the second year that Congressman Issa will present the award, stating: "I'm pleased to recognize these young men and women who have served our community through the Congressional award program. They are our future leaders and, at an early age, have recognized the value of serving the public and setting goals for themselves." The Congressional Award is presented by Members of Congress, to individuals between the age of 14 to 23 years old, who register with the Congressional Award Foundation and then complete hours related to volunteer public service, personal development, physical fitness, and expedition or exploration. A gold medalist must complete 400 hours over twenty-four months, a silver medalist must complete 200 hours over twelve months, and a bronze medalist must complete 100 hours over seven months. Please contact Sunana Batra at the Vista District office at 760-599-5000 for further information or if you are interested in attending. Note: The Congressional Art Competition Website The Congressional Award Foundation Website
08.06.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) today issued the below statement following the release of the Senate Finance Committee’s investigative report into the IRS’ targeting of conservative groups: “The standard protocol over the past eight years has been for Congressional Democrats to serve as proxies for the Obama Administration, attempting to explain away even the most indefensible actions, regardless of what the facts show. “We see the trend hold true in the Senate Finance Committee’s report on the IRS’ shameful political targeting. While Chairman Hatch rightly recognizes the IRS’ egregious actions, Senate Democrats remain committed to defending the Obama Administration at any cost, even if it means attempting to retroactively pretend the IRS’ targeting of conservative groups – which the President called ‘intolerable and inexcusable’ back in 2013 – never occurred. “The facts in this case speak for themselves. There is no path towards restoring Americans’ trust in the IRS that does not include the removal of IRS Commissioner John Koskinen.”
07.15.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Following today’s announcement of the “Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action” nuclear deal with Iran, Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement: “No nation has ever abandoned its nuclear ambitions without first agreeing to actually abandon its nuclear ambitions. The President’s deal with Iran falls dramatically short of that standard, failing even to obtain the vital ‘anytime, anywhere’ inspections the White House promised would be a part of any final deal. “The crux of this deal rests on this President’s assumption that, despite decades of evidence to the contrary, the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism is simply misunderstood and secretly desires the diplomacy it has long opposed more than it desires the nuclear arsenal it has doggedly pursued. “This is a ‘junior varsity’ foreign policy grounded in childlike optimism, rather than clear-eyed realism. This deal puts our people at risk, leaves our most important allies in the Middle East in jeopardy, and will be to President Obama what ‘A Peace for Our Time’ was to Neville Chamberlain.”
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement in light of the the Supreme Court’s 6-3 decision in King v Burwell: “Today’s Supreme Court decision is a loss for the Constitution and amounts to an egregious expansion of executive power. It flies in the face of one of the principles most fundamental to the American form of government: the separation of powers that gives Congress – not the executive branch, and certainly not agenda-driven agencies like the IRS – the sole ability to write laws. “The language of the Affordable Care Act could not have been more clear or limiting in its scope, applying only to exchanges established by the states. The Supreme Court has now taken the incredibly illogical leap of deciding that the words ‘exchanges established by the states’ should also mean ‘exchanges not established by the states.’ This decision weakens Congress’ ability to constrain the executive branch and amounts to handing President Obama a $4 trillion check to spend as he sees fit, contrary to Congress’ and the states’ clearly expressed wishes.”
06.22.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) today released the following statement regarding the revelation that the Internal Revenue Service is currently refusing to release 6,400 of Lois Lerner’s e-mails forensically recovered by the Treasury Inspector General: “The excuses peddled by the IRS to deny access to Lois Lerner’s e-mails stretch the bounds of credibility. The agency now says it can’t release 6,400 of Lerner’s e-mails because it is ensuring the e-mails are not duplicates, despite the fact that the Inspector General has already confirmed the e-mails are not duplicates. The IRS is touting this unnecessary de-duplication process as an excuse for why its timeline for releasing Lerner’s communications may ‘need’ to be further delayed. “This is, of course, just the latest obstruction in a long line of obstructions. First the hard drive failed, then it was destroyed, then there were no backup tapes – lies and obfuscations exposed by IG investigators who recovered thousands of emails the Congress, Courts and the American people were told the IRS had done everything possible to recover and were gone for good. “The Deputy Inspector General has already publicly confirmed what most already suspect – that ‘there is potential criminal activity.’ I look forward to the full truth being brought to light when the Treasury Inspector General’s office releases the final results of its investigation. The prosecution of bad actors at the IRS and elsewhere, to the fullest extent of the law, is the only way to restore confidence in an agency whose standing has been badly damaged by its own actions.” ###
06.08.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – After Turkey’s ruling party, led by President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, lost majority control of Turkey’s parliament for the first time in more than a decade, Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49), a Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement: “The Turkish electorate made a clear statement when it shifted support toward a more moderate and secular party. This is a great sign for the future of Turkey and its relationship with the United States. I continue to hope that Turkey will turn westward both in terms of its democratic system and the fulfillment of its NATO responsibilities.”
05.29.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – In light of an anticipated Senate vote on the USA Freedom Act this weekend, Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement: “This weekend, those in the Senate who want to end bulk collection have an opportunity to do just that by voting to pass the USA Freedom Act. The legislation is a well-reasoned, thoroughly debated solution that passed overwhelmingly in the House. And most of the bill’s few opponents would even agree that it is a step in the right direction. “In an age in which the government knows more and more about Americans personal lives and Americans know less and less about their government, the USA Freedom Act should be counted as a victory for those fighting for civil liberties and increased government transparency.”
05.24.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, at the Data Transparency Coalition’s financial regulation summit in Washington, D.C., Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) announced the forthcoming introduction of the Making All Data Open for Financial Transparency (MADOFF) Act. According to Issa, “By directing federal financial regulators to adopt consistent standards, the Making All Data Open for Financial Transparency (MADOFF) Act modernizes the process of financial regulatory reporting, while also increasing transparency throughout federal regulatory agencies. “This has three primary benefits: first, public access to open, searchable regulatory reporting data promises new ways for investors to evaluate investment opportunities. Second, modernization would improve oversight efficiency and effectiveness, by ensuring all regulators are ‘reading from the same page,’ so to speak, as opposed to a dozen agencies employing a dozen different approaches. Finally, an updated process promises to ease the burden placed on business owners by phasing out a cumbersome and outdated system based on paperwork in favor of widely-available technology that can simplify and automate reporting tasks.” A one-pager outlining the bill’s effects is attached.
04.29.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Darrell Issa (R-CA), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Blake Farenthold (R-TX), and Brad Sherman (D-CA) today introduced the Consumer Review Freedom Act to make it illegal for businesses to penalize customers who write negative reviews on online review sites such as Yelp or TripAdvisor. The bill was motivated by several examples of companies attempting to dissuade people from writing honest reviews by slipping non-disparagement clauses into their consumer contracts. Representative Darrell Issa: “The Internet is a critical economic engine, increasingly used for all types of commerce and communication, including for consumer reviews. Some organizations have sought to stifle customers’ abilities to express their opinions online by threatening punitive action if a customer leaves a negative review. The mere threat of monetary penalties or fines for writing honest reviews would chill the free exchange of opinions we expect to find on the Internet. The Consumer Review Freedom Act would put a stop to these outrageous attempts to silence free speech online.” Representative Eric Swallwell: “Consumers shouldn’t have to worry about being punished for posting an honest review. This is commonsense legislation to ensure the rights of consumers are protected and penalize businesses attempting to silence fair criticism. I thank Congressman Issa for joining me to re-introduce this bill and safeguard free speech.” Representative Blake Farenthold: “The modern information economy is driven by an open and robust public dialogue. Unfortunately, some bad actors are trying to undermine free speech by threatening to sue folks who voice their honest opinions in reviews. We cannot allow this attack on our First Amendment rights to continue for the sake of both our liberty and the continued expansion of information-driven businesses on the Internet. I applaud Congressman Issa and Congressman Swalwell for standing up for free speech and am pleased to join them as an original cosponsor of the Consumer Review Freedom Act.” Representative Brad Sherman: “As a country that prides itself on free speech as a tenet of our constitution, I felt this sneaky tactic of limiting it as purely wrong. We think this represents a very effective piece of legislation that will allow consumers the freedom to continue doing what they thought they could all along – offer up opinions on products and services consumed to enable the marketplace to make more informed decisions.” This legislation would declare such non-disparagement clauses in consumer contracts unenforceable, in addition to providing authority to the Department of Justice and state attorneys general to take action against businesses that include them. California Governor Jerry Brown signed into law a bill making non-disparagement clauses illegal in the state last year. The Palmers, a couple from Utah, were fined $3,500 by KlearGear for violation of a non-disparagement clause after they posted a negative review online about their experience with the company. When they refused to pay the company in turn reported their debt to the credit bureaus, which damaged their credit rating. Supporters of the bill include Public Participation Project, Yelp, TripAdvisor, Angie’s List, National Consumer Law Center (NCLC), Consumer Federation of America, and Public Citizen. ###
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) and Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes-Norton (D-DC) today introduced the Monuments Protection Act, which would ensure public parks and properties cannot be used as political leverage by the executive branch, requiring that any Administration work with local and state governments for the continued operation of these national properties during any lapse in federal funding. Congressman Darrell Issa: “Our national parks, forests, and monuments – resources built and maintained by American tax dollars -- should never be used as political leverage. The Monuments Protection Act of 2015 ensures that state and local governments have the option to step in and continue to operate affected properties in the case of a lapse of federal funding, thus providing more flexibility to the regions that rely heavily on parks and monuments, rather than forcing them to adhere to the whim of an federal bureaucracy that is, at times, thousands of miles removed from the areas impacted by decisions to shut down federal properties across the board.” Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes-Norton: “The District of Columbia and other jurisdictions around the nation that are heavily reliant on national parks, forests, and monuments for tourism and revenue should be able to keep them functioning when congressional dysfunction closes the federal government. Although jurisdictions may front the funds necessary for national sites to remain open, the federal government reimburses them after a shutdown. National Parks sites nourish local budgets and belong to the American people. They deserve the highest level of public access, even when federal funding is temporarily unavailable.” ###
04.02.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Representative Darrell Issa (CA-49), a Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement regarding the framework on a deal with Iran released today by the White House: “Fittingly, the plan released by the White House contains at least a dozen instances of the phrase, ‘Iran has agreed to.’ The entire Obama foreign policy as it pertains to Iran and the prospect of a nuclear arms race in the Middle East hinges entirely on an incomprehensibly naïve decision to trust the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism to do the right thing, with few safeguards to account for whether Iran has actually reached any meaningful milestones. “Inexplicably, the Obama Administration is betting the security of the entire region and, ultimately, of American interests around the world on the misguided belief that the radical Iranian regime’s newfound conscience will magically lead us into a newfound era of peace and prosperity, despite Iran’s history of groups ranging from Hezbollah in Lebanon to Houthi militants in Yemen, in addition to its regular threats to destroy Israel and the West. The sanctions on Iran, while themselves insufficient, nonetheless represent the culmination of years of work. The suggestion that the Administration will merely ‘snap back’ sanctions should this reckless proposal fail has no basis in reality and ultimately endangers American interests both at home and abroad.” ###
04.01.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Representative Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement in response to the announcement that the Department of Justice would not charge Lois Lerner with contempt: "A lack of accountability for wrongdoing by public officials has become a hallmark of this Administration and specifically of the Holder Justice Department. Refusing to prosecute Mrs. Lerner and Mr. Holder after they were held in contempt by a vote of the House of Representatives sends a disturbing message that it is permissible for senior government officials to lie to Congress and to ignore subpoenas for information vital to Congressional investigations. Unfortunately, though it is more of the same behavior we have come to anticipate, it is no less disgraceful.” ###
03.27.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Representatives Darrell Issa (CA-49), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet in the House Judiciary Committee, and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), today announced the reintroduction of H.R. 1627, the “No Stolen Trademarks Honored in America Act.” “We must ensure that intellectual property threatened by the Cuban government is protected from illegal seizure,” said Rep. Issa. “This legislation makes a technical correction to our law to ensure that protections apply to all parties claiming U.S. rights to confiscated Cuban trademarks – regardless of nationality.” Added Rep. Wasserman Schultz, “I am pleased to once again join my colleague in introducing this important piece of legislation which protects the rightful owners of American trademarks.” In 1998, Congress enacted Section 211 of the Omnibus Appropriations bill. Section 211’s purpose was and is to protect United States trademarks and their rightful owners from confiscation by the Cuban government. The European Union challenged Section 211 before the World Trade Organization, citing its inconsistency with the national-treatment and most-favored-nation principles of the WTO’s Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights Agreement (TRIPs Agreement). ###
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49), a Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement on Saudi Arabia’s military action in Yemen:. “The takeover of large swaths of Yemen by Iranian-backed Shia militants has forced our Saudi allies to take military action. Months of fairy tale negotiations and appeasement by this administration have led Iran to believe that it can act with impunity on an international scale. Now, more than ever, it is clear that any real settlement with Iran is impossible, and the president must acknowledge this fact. The continued easement or outright removal of sanctions against this rogue state will only further embolden Iran and facilitate its belligerent behavior. We must make it clear that we will support our allies and punish our enemies through steadfast resolve and decisive action.”
03.24.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, at the Data Transparency Coalition’s financial regulation summit in Washington, D.C., Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) announced the forthcoming introduction of the Making All Data Open for Financial Transparency (MADOFF) Act. According to Issa, “By directing federal financial regulators to adopt consistent standards, the Making All Data Open for Financial (MADOFF) Transparency Act modernizes the process of financial regulatory reporting, while also increasing transparency throughout federal regulatory agencies. “This has three primary benefits: first, public access to open, searchable regulatory reporting data promises new ways for investors to evaluate investment opportunities. Second, modernization would improve oversight efficiency and effectiveness, by ensuring all regulators are ‘reading from the same page,’ so to speak, as opposed to a dozen agencies employing a dozen different approaches. Finally, an updated process promises to ease the burden placed on business owners by phasing out a cumbersome and outdated system based on paperwork in favor of widely-available technology that can simplify and automate reporting tasks.”
03.10.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Following former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s press conference today at which she was scheduled to address questions surrounding her use of a personal e-mail address throughout her four years as Secretary of State, Representative Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement: “What we heard from Hillary Clinton today was a rehashing of the talking points we’ve heard from her defenders over the last couple of weeks. Unfortunately, her explanations are not plausible and her statement did little to answer the many legitimate questions about the mishandling of these emails, including the security risks involved with her use of a non-government server for official communications. She also did not explain why she believed she had the right, for two years, and over the course of multiple investigations, to keep these e-mails from Congress, from the press, and from the American people. “The expectation that we merely trust that Secretary Clinton shared all relevant e-mails and that the process of vetting the e-mails was as thorough and unbiased as it should have been is insulting given the Clintons’ well-established history of misleading the American people. This matter cannot be put to rest without a thorough forensic examination of the email server and an unbiased independent review of the records in question. “Had Mrs. Clinton merely followed clear precedent and stated policy, this would not have become an issue. Had she reported the e-mails when she received subpoenas to which the documents would have been responsive, this would have been much less of an issue. She did neither. That she is only now addressing this, years after the fact, seems to indicate her response has little to do with some sudden, revelatory desire for transparency.” ###
02.25.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, House Judiciary Committee members Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet, and Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), and Senate Judiciary Committee members Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) introduced the Promoting Automotive Repair, Trade and Sales Act of 2015 (PARTS), a bipartisan, bicameral bill, which would expand consumer choice for automobile collision repair parts, cut costs paid by insurers and drivers, and ensure competition in the automobile repair parts market. The PARTS Act amends U.S. design patent law to reduce the exclusivity period car companies hold on design patents for collision repair parts from 14 years to 30 months (or two-and-a-half years) during which time other suppliers could test, research and develop parts on a not-for-sale basis. The current 14-year design patent monopoly prevents aftermarket manufacturers from making or selling external collision repair parts, driving up costs by limiting consumer choice, crowding out competition leading to higher insurance rates and fees. Rep. Issa “The decision to purchase an automobile is one of the biggest investments a family makes. With the average sticker price of a new car now exceeding $30,000 and repair costs continuing to rise, hardworking American families deserve access to as many repair part options as possible. The PARTS Act will not only increase consumer choice therefore reducing aftermarket costs but encourage innovation and competition among other aftermarket parts manufacturers.” Rep. Lofgren “Millions of Americans depend on their cars to be reliable and affordable so they can get their kids to school, pick up groceries for their family, and drive to work every day. By bringing real competition and innovation to the auto parts market, we can ensure consumers get the best value for their dollar when they need to shop for safe, high-quality, and reasonably priced replacement parts to keep their cars running.” Sen. Hatch “Especially in today’s tight economy, there is no reason why Americans should have to pay unreasonably high prices just to repair their cars. The PARTS Act encourages competition in the marketplace by providing consumers with a choice of affordable, quality alternatives to repair their cars.” Sen. Whitehouse “Having to replace a car part is frustrating enough; drivers shouldn’t have to pay artificially high prices set by car manufacturers. This bill will preserve competition in the car-parts market and ultimately allow consumers to get safe replacement parts at lower prices.”
02.20.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement regarding ongoing labor disputes that have caused significant slowdowns at ports along the West Coast and portend a potential full shutdown of the West Coast Ports: “We must avoid a shutdown of our west coast ports, at all costs. Failure simply is not an option. A shutdown would have potentially devastating effects on small businesses nationwide. “Last week, I cosponsored a House resolution calling for a swift conclusion to the dispute between the Pacific Maritime Association and the International Longshore and Warehouse Union with the assistance of a federal mediator. It is unacceptable that the dispute between these parties has led to congestion all along the West Coast Ports and shipping lanes. If an immediate settlement cannot be reached, we are calling on President Obama, through his authority under the Taft-Hartley Act, to intervene in the matter in the interest of protecting the economy, much like President Bush did to resolve a similar labor dispute in 2002.”
02.18.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement in response to a U.S. District Court’s preliminary injunction against President Obama’s executive amnesty program. In a 123-page opinion, Judge Andrew Hanen wrote that the executive amnesty genie would be “impossible to put back into the bottle” without the injunction, arguing that the Administration was “not rewriting laws,” but instead “creating them from scratch.” "Today, United States District Judge Andrew Hanen recognized the direct damage and irreparable harm that will be caused by President Obama’s unconstitutional executive actions. On 22 separate occasions, President Obama himself admitted the Constitution did not grant him authority to take executive action on immigration. The President, preferring to steamroll Congress and the American people rather than engage in dialog with them, has now changed his tune and sought to vest himself with the unchecked authority to rewrite our immigration system in a last ditch effort to craft his preferred ideological legacy. But the fact remains that the President's proposal, aside from being blatantly unconstitutional, is both bad for America and bad for the very people it purports to help, ultimately leaving them in legal limbo, rather than finally taking decisive action."
02.06.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement in response to emerging accounts that raise questions about whether Southern California Edison’s misused the H-1B visa program during a recent layoff of IT staff that, by some estimates, will affect as many as 400 employees: “Reports that Southern California Edison used the H1-B visa program to replace part of the company’s current IT workforce are deeply disturbing. “Based on the information currently available, this appears to be an example of precisely what the H-1B visa is not intended to be: a program to simply replace American workers en masse with cheap labor from overseas. Indeed, current law requires that an employer certify that the hiring of an H-1B applicant ‘will not adversely affect the working conditions of workers similarly employed,’ in keeping with the program’s intent of injecting new talent into the economy, rather than merely replacing current workers with lower paid counterparts. Congress is currently considering reforms to the H1-B program, and legislation I’ve authored includes stronger prevailing wage protections to ensure that companies aren’t simply using the program to replace existing workers with lower cost imported labor. “I urge Southern California Edison to be forthcoming in releasing information about the process behind this decision, and I look forward to a thorough and transparent account of what attempts were made to ensure this major hiring decision adheres to the very clear statutes outlining the intended structure of the H-1B visa program.”
02.04.2015	Washington D.C. (Feb. 4, 2015)—Today, Rep. Darrell Issa, Chairman of the Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Intellectual Property, released the following statement in response to FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler’s editorial in Wired entitled This is How We Will Ensure Net Neutrality. “FCC Chairman Wheeler’s net neutrality proposal fails to protect the free and open Internet, instead, proposing sweeping changes to the laws governing our communications technology that will result in overregulation and years of fruitless litigation. I encourage the FCC to prevent this plan from going forward and to instead work with Congress to ensure our antitrust laws encourage robust competition in the marketplace.” ###
02.02.2015	Washington D.C. (Feb. 2, 2015)—Today, Rep. Darrell Issa and Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, introduced bipartisan legislation to strengthen our nation’s Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) laws. The FOIA Oversight and Implementation Act of 2015 would establish a presumption of openness for releasing information while creating electronic accessibility for frequently released information. The Issa-Cummings bill would also strengthen oversight and review of FOIA compliance, as well as dispute resolution from the Office of Government Information Services. “At a time when the American people’s trust in the federal government is at an all-time low, we must strengthen and refine our laws that enable transparency and openness in government,” said Issa. “Requests through the Freedom of Information Act remain the best tool for the American people to hold their government accountable. In this information technology driven era, it should be easier, not harder for citizens to have simpler and broader access to government information.” “This bipartisan legislation will strengthen one of our most critical open government laws by bringing greater sunlight to federal agency actions,” said Cummings. “There should be a presumption of openness in this country, and agencies should have to justify their actions when they want to withhold information from the American people.” The Issa-Cummings FOIA reform bill will be a part of a bipartisan and bicameral effort that will begin moving through both the House and Senate in the 114th Congress. ******* The FOIA Oversight and Implementation Act of 2015 Establishes Presumption of Openness The bill would require agencies to process FOIA requests with a presumption of openness. Under this Act, an agency could only withhold information if the agency reasonably forsees that disclosure would cause specific identifiable harm. The bill places the burden on the agency to demonstrate why information may be withheld, instead of on the public to justify release. Requires Agencies To Post Frequently Requested Information Agencies would be required to post all releasable information requested three or more times online in a publicly accessible format. Agencies would also have to review their systems of records and post releasable information online if it is likely to be in the public interest. Agency annual FOIA reports would be required to include how many records it made available proactively. All raw data in agency FOIA reports would also be made available online in an accessible and fully useable format. Imposes a 25 Year Sunset on Applications of FOIA’s Exemption 5 The bill imposes a 25 year sunset on an agency’s use of the “deliberative process” exemption under FOIA. Establishes Single Portal for FOIA Requesters The FOIA Act will require the operation of a consolidated online request portal that allows a member of the public to submit a request for records from a single website. Strengthens the FOIA Ombudsman (Office of Government Information Services) The Office of Government Information Services (OGIS) would have increased independence under the FOIA Act which would authorize OGIS to report directly to Congress without interagency review. Strengthens Oversight and Review of FOIA Compliance OGIS and the agency Chief FOIA Officers would be responsible for regularly reviewing FOIA compliance. These reviews shall include review of fee assessment and waivers, backlogs, overuse of exemptions, and other problems with FOIA. Agencies will also be responsible for reporting more information on FOIA including the number of times it posted records proactively, engaged in dispute resolution, and invoked law enforcement exclusions. Strengthens Dispute Resolution The FOIA Act would allow requesters to have 90 days to file an appeal under FOIA (previously undefined), as well as their right to seek mediation services and dispute resolution from both OGIS and the agency’s Chief FOIA Officer. Agencies will also have to report the number of times it engaged in dispute resolution and update their regulations to provide direction to agencies on mediation services. Mandates FOIA Regulations Updates Each agency shall update its FOIA regulations within 180 days of enactment. The regulations would be required to include procedures on dispute resolution and working with OGIS. OGIS would be required to review whether agencies comply with this requirement and if agencies fail to update their regulations they will have to report to Congress on their failure to do so and will be subject to a review of their FOIA compliance by their Office of Inspector General. Establishes Chief FOIA Officer Council A Chief FOIA Officer Council, modeled after the CIO Council, would be established by the FOIA Act which would include all Chief FOIA Officers. ###
01.20.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) today made the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address: “It’s disappointing. The President’s speech was predictable and hardly inspiring. Every year, the President demands more money from Congress. This time it’s $400 billion in new taxes, the first time it was a trillion dollars in ‘stimulus spending.’ When you look the series of broken promises: Americans getting lied to about keeping their healthcare, IRS political targeting and the other failures, it’s hard to justify giving this President more tax dollars. “I know we can find common ground for the American people, but we cannot find it with the issues the President brought forward tonight. I remain hopeful that we can work together, but not on these half-baked policies.”
01.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), former Chairman of the House Oversight Committee, today made the following statement on departure of Marilyn Tavenner, Administrator of the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Tavenner headed CMS when the Oversight Committee revealed that the agency was padding Obamacare enrollment numbers with nearly 400,000 dental plans in order to better their numbers. CMS eventually admitted that there were problems with their 7.3 million figure, and corrected the enrollment number downward to 6.9 million. “Tavenner had to go,” said Chairman Issa. “She presided over CMS as it deceptively padded the Obamacare enrollment numbers. It was a deplorable example of an agency trying to scam the American people. They weren’t successful this time because of Congressional oversight. We deserve better.” Tavenner and Obamacare architect Jonathan Gruber testified on December 9th, 2014.
01.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Intellectual Property, Courts and the Internet, and Congresswoman Suzan DelBene (D-WA) today announced the launch of the Congressional Caucus on the Internet of Things (IoT). “Technology is revolutionizing the way consumers use cars, homes, workspaces, and everyday items. Emerging uses of Internet connectivity to these devices raise both opportunities and questions about regulatory policy, spectrum space, privacy, and more,” said Issa. “It’s critical that lawmakers remain educated about the fast paced evolution of the Internet of Things, and have informed policy discussions about the government’s role in access and use of these devices. I am excited to co-chair the IoT Caucus and ensure federal policy spurs, rather than stifles, our innovation economy.” “As someone with a long career in the technology industry and as an entrepreneur, I know firsthand how quickly technologies have developed to become critical to our daily lives,” DelBene said. “Policymakers will need to be engaged and educated on how we can best protect consumers while also enabling these new technologies to thrive. It’s important that our laws keep up with technology and I look forward to co-chairing the IoT caucus.” Background: What is IoT? The ‘Internet of Things’ has come to refer to the use of network connectivity to the Internet to enable devices and systems. The IoT is a rapidly developing and broad space affecting the use of devices from cooking equipment to health technology and cars. Issues in IoT Development: The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) is currently developing a report on IoT, and future agency regulatory action of both new and traditional industries engaged in connected devices will have implications for future interoperability and development. Additionally, as user engagement increases, there will be likely be policy debate about data sharing and privacy implications. The future of a thriving IoT marketplace will also be affected by spectrum policy and other federal management systems. Purpose of the Caucus: The IoT Caucus will focus on educating Members on the development of innovative technology and public policy in the ‘Internet of Things’ space. The Caucus will inform Members about new opportunities and challenges in health, transportation, home, workplace, and more as everyday devices take advantage of network connectivity to create new value.
01.07.2015	Washington, D.C. – Representative Darrell Issa (CA-49), a member of the House Judiciary and Foreign Affairs Committees, today announced the introduction of five bills at the start of the 114th Congress. These legislative items carry over from the 113th Congress and range from the DRONES Act, which will protect American citizens, to the Military LAND Act, which preserves the Armed Forces ability to train on military bases. Designating Requirements on Notification of Executive-ordered Strikes (DRONES) Act H.R. 137, the Designating Requirements On Notification of Executive-ordered Strikes (DRONES) Act, will limit preplanned lethal operations deliberately targeting citizens of the United States. Currently, the President can delegate decisions about targeting citizens for lethal strikes. The DRONES Act prohibits this delegation in order to ensure the President is accountable and requires him to personally confirm a citizen’s status as an enemy combatant and the necessity of lethal force. To further ensure that accountability and adequate oversight, it also requires the President, after the attack, to notify Congress of such operations with a detailed explanation of how enemy combatant status was determined and why lethal force was necessary. “Since 2009, four U.S. citizens have been killed by secret U.S. operations in Yemen and Pakistan – three of which we know involved drone strikes,” said Rep. Issa. “ As the United States continues to expand its use of drones, Congress must enact safeguards to ensure that Americans and our allies are not targeted without adequate due process.” Access to Insurance for All Americans Act The Access to Insurance for all Americans Act, H.R. 138, will enhance consumer options for affordable health insurance without the burdens of Obamacare. This bill will allow every American the opportunity to purchase the same healthcare to which the President and federal employees have access. “Affordable, high quality, private plans can be offered to Americans without mandates, new taxes, bureaucratic hurdles, or adding to our deficit,” said Rep. Issa. “We should repeal the President’s healthcare law and replace it with reform that is patient-centered where you control your personal health decisions, not Washington.” Most federal civil employees up to and including the President can participate in the Federal Employee Health Benefits Program (FEHBP), a federally facilitated private insurance market that includes most major health insurers, functions in all 50 states, and provides a range of 300 different plans. This practical proposal addresses key healthcare challenges including: Guarantee Coverage. Americans would have guaranteed access to coverage, regardless of health status, pre-existing conditions, or age. Improve Access & Choice. Unlike the narrow provider networks in many Obamacare plans, nearly 99 percent of physicians accept FEHBP plans, allowing all Americans to find a doctor that is convenient for them and almost all Americans to keep seeing the doctors they see now. Affordable Options. The FEHBP uses market competition and consumer choice to provide benefits at an affordable cost. Individuals pay the same rate, regardless of pre-existing conditions, age or health status. Expand Consumer Choice. There are currently over 300 insurance plans available through FEHBP with multiple plans available in each state. The plans include HMOs, PPOs, consumer driving health care plans and more. They range in cost and coverage, allowing consumers to select a plan which is right for them. Make Prices Easier to Compare. Participants will have a clear picture of their out of pocket costs, and their exposure will be capped at reasonable rates. Help Job Creators. Private sector employers could subsidize premium costs for their employees allowing them to buy plans, unlike the state-based exchanges established under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Military LAND Act The Military LAND Act, H.R. 135, is a bill to protect the military’s ability to train on its own land. The bill allows federal agencies to oppose the outside nomination of a federally-owned site for national historic designation if the nomination affects national security, including military training. “Congress set aside property for the exclusive use of our military—but without action, every base in the country is at risk of facing limited access to its own land and being subject to control by outside special-interest groups that could impede our national security,” said Rep. Issa. “This bill will fix this statutory loophole without undermining our tradition of protecting truly historical places.” Ronald Wilson Reagan Exclusive Economic Zone of the United States H.R. 134, the Ronald Wilson Reagan Exclusive Economic Zone of the United States, will rename the United States Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) after President Ronald Reagan, who first established the EEZ through Proclamation 5030 on March 10, 1983.The EEZ is consistent with domestic and international law, and ensures that the United States has sovereign rights for the purpose of exploring, exploiting, conserving, and managing living and nonliving resources off our coasts. “President Reagan appreciated that America is blessed with an abundance of natural resources and understood that to remain competitive and to promote strong economic growth, we need to effectively develop and responsibly make use of our natural wealth,” said Rep. Issa. “I’m proud to introduce legislation that would honor his historic act, which nearly doubled the size of the United States with the stroke of his pen, at no cost to taxpayers.” Camp Pendleton Medal of Honor Post Office H.R. 136 designates the facility of the U.S. Postal Service located aboard Marine Corps Base (MCB) Camp Pendleton at 1103 USPS Building 1103, Camp Pendleton, California, 92055 as the Camp Pendleton Medal of Honor Post Office. The renaming of this facility will serve as a living reminder of those that have given so much for their fellow servicemen, servicewomen and citizens. It will continue to inspire, educate and remind our Marines of Camp Pendleton of the amazing and awe inspiring acts of heroism by those that came before them in the service of our great nation.
12.05.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement on being named Chairman of the House Intellectual Property Subcommittee by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA): “I am thrilled and honored to have the opportunity to work with Chairman Goodlatte, the subcommittee’s new Vice Chairman Doug Collins (R-GA), Ranking Member Nadler (D-NY), and the other Members of the Subcommittee on a subject matter where I have great passion: patents, the Internet, and our nation’s framework for encouraging innovation. As Subcommittee Chairman, my priorities include advancing a strong bipartisan bill to address abusive patent practices by ‘patent trolls’ which harm our economy’s real innovators and continuing needed oversight of the Patent & Trademark Office to ensure it is best prepared to address challenges for the 21st century. I’m looking forward to starting the new year and working on the laws that allowed me to have success in my business before I came to Congress and sparked my interest in public policy and service.” Before coming to Congress in 2001, Rep. Issa served as CEO of California-based Directed Electronics, a company that Issa founded and built in the mid-1990s to become the nation’s largest manufacturer of vehicle anti-theft devices, including the highly-successful Viper system. In 1994, Issa was named Entrepreneur of the Year by Inc. Magazine, Ernst & Young and The San Diego Union Tribune. During his leadership of Directed Electronics, Issa served as chairman of the Consumer Electronics Association, an organization of 2000 companies within the consumer technology industry that hosts the annual Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. When he stepped down as CEO to serve as a Member of the U.S. House of Representatives, Directed Electronics employed nearly 200 people. As the holder of 37 patents himself, Issa has long been vigilant about protecting the intellectual property rights of artists and other entrepreneurs to help protect America’s position at the forefront of innovation and creativity in the entertainment and technology industries. In addition to the Judiciary Committee, Rep. Issa also announced that next Congress he will return to his previous assignment on the House Foreign Affairs Committee as his term as House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman concludes.
11.21.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, November 20th, 2014, Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement in response to the President’s televised remarks regarding immigration reform. “The President’s unilateral actions on immigration are a violation of the law and of the trust the American people have placed in him. President Obama is playing a dangerous political game with lives and deepening the mistrust that the American people and Congress have in his ability to faithfully execute the law. The President is acting like a dictator and I am committed to stopping him from dismissing our laws.” ###
11.17.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, November 17th, 2014, Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement praising the House’s passage of H.R. 5468, a bill to name the Mainside post office aboard Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton, the Camp Pendleton Medal of Honor Post Office. The post office is located at 1103 USPS Building 1103, Camp Pendleton, California, 92055. The Medal of Honor is our nation’s highest award for valor and heroism, often only given after the death of the serviceman or woman due to the extreme acts of heroism and selflessness. The post office will be named to specifically recognize those of the US Marine Corp and Navy Corpsman who have received the Congressional Medal of Honor and have close ties to Camp Pendleton. Congressman Issa released the following statement: “Medal of Honor recipients are some of the bravest, most selfless individuals in the history of our great nation,” said Congressman Issa. “Their stories of valor are enduring and worthy of remembrance by every citizen in our country. This naming will be a permanent reminder of the heroism from our servicemen and servicewomen, who put others and their country first. To all of the Marines and Navy Corpsman with ties to Camp Pendleton we are grateful for your bravery and service.” The House passed H.R. 5468 by a voice vote. Note: The post office facility is located at 1103 USPS Building 1103, Camp Pendleton, California, 92055. Co-sponsors include: Rep. Darrell Issa, Rep. Karen Bass, Rep. Xavier Becerra, Rep. Ami Bera, Rep. Julia Brownley, Rep. Ken Calvert, Rep. John Campbell, Rep. Lois Capps, Rep. Tony Cardenas, Rep. Judy Chu, Rep. Paul Cook, Rep. Jim Costa, Rep. Susan Davis, Rep. Jeff Denham, Rep. Anna Eshoo, Rep. Sam Farr, Rep. John Garamendi, Rep. Janice Hahn, Rep. Mike Honda, Rep. Jared Huffman, Rep. Duncan Hunter, Rep. Doug LaMalfa, Rep. Barbara Lee, Rep. Zoe Lofgren, Rep. Alan Lowenthal, Rep. Doris Matsui, Rep. Tom McClintock, Rep. Buck McKeon, Rep. Jerry McNerney, Rep. Gary Miller, Rep. George Miller, Rep. Grace Napolitano, Rep. Grace Negrete McLeod, Rep. Devin Nunes, Rep. Scott Peters, Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard, Rep. Ed Royce, Rep. Loretta Sanchez, Rep. Linda Sanchez, Rep. Adam Schiff, Rep. Brad Sherman, Rep. Jackie Speier, Rep. Eric Swalwell, Rep. Mark Takano, Rep. Mike Thompson, Rep. David Valadao, Rep. Juan Vargas, Rep. Maxine Waters, and Rep. Henry Waxman. Full Text of H.R. 5468 can be viewed here.
11.14.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, November 14th, 2014, Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement praising the House’s passage of H.R. 5682, a bill to approve the Keystone XL Pipeline. “Today, the House of Representatives listened to the American people, made the economy a priority, and created thousands of new jobs by passing legislation to approve the Keystone XL pipeline. This project will go far in stabilizing our energy sector while creating highly technical and skilled labor jobs for years to come.” The House passed H.R. 5682 on a bipartisan vote of 252-161, with Rep. Issa supporting passage. Note: Full Text of H.R. 5682 can be viewed here.
11.10.2014	Today, House Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s announcement supporting strong regulation of the Internet by the Federal Communications Commission: “President Obama’s decision to put political pressure on the Federal Communications Commission to regulate the Internet is bad for American consumers, would stifle economic growth, and would open the pathway for unnecessary government interference. The Internet’s revolutionary success is due in large part to an entrepreneurialism that adapts and innovates freely as the Internet evolves. A free and open Internet allows Americans to operate their small businesses, communicate freely, and stay competitive in a changing global economy. Instead of bowing to political pressure from the President, the FCC should take into account the strong bipartisan support for keeping the Internet free and open.”
11.04.2014	Last night, in response to an Order from a Federal judge, the Department of Justice turned over 64,280 pages of documents that were withheld from Congress after President Obama asserted Executive Privilege on the eve of a contempt citation for Attorney General Eric Holder in June 2012. The sheer volume of last night’s document production—which consists entirely of documents that the Justice Department itself acknowledges are not covered by Executive Privilege—shows that the President and the Attorney General attempted to extend the scope of the Executive Privilege well beyond its historical boundaries to avoid disclosing documents that embarrass or otherwise implicate senior Obama Administration officials. In effect, last night’s production is an admission that the Justice Department never had legitimate grounds to withhold these documents in the first place. Approximately two-thirds of the universe of documents that the Justice Department withheld from Congress has now been shown to be well outside the scope of Executive Privilege. House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., today made the following statement on the Department of Justice’s document production related to the agency’s cover-up of Operation Fast and Furious: “When Eric Holder wants to know why he was the first Attorney General held in criminal contempt of Congress, he can read the judge’s order that compelled the production of 64,280 pages that he and President Obama illegitimately and illegally withheld from Congress. Since these pages still do not represent the entire universe of the documents the House of Representatives is seeking related to the Justice Department’s cover-up of the botched gun-walking scandal that contributed to the death of a Border Patrol agent, our court case will continue. I am deeply concerned that some redactions to these documents may still be inappropriate and contrary to the judge’s order in the case. This production is nonetheless a victory for the legislative branch, a victory for transparency, and a victory for efforts to check Executive Branch power. As the production is extensive and may contain sensitive information, our investigative staff will be carefully examining the documents turned over last night.” Click here for the Justice Department’s cover letter accompanying the document production.
10.20.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, October 20th, 2014, Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement in support of Google’s new search-engine algorithm in the fight against pirated content. “In an unprecedented step, Google has introduced new search engine capabilities to make sure that legal content is readily available to consumers and illegal, pirated content is further demoted in users' results. This announcement represents a milestone in the private sector, as cooperation between technology companies and content creators help ensure that intellectual property is protected. Users will now be able to readily identify and access legal content like music and movies while avoiding pirated works from rogue sites in China and Russia. “As the author of the Online Protection and Enforcement of Digital Trade (OPEN) Act, I am strongly encouraged by this voluntary private sector initiative to discourage piracy and look forward to the continued cooperation of all parties to protect intellectual content.” Note: A full breakdown of Google’s new search-engine algorithm can be read here.
09.17.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, September 17, 2014, Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) along with the bipartisan support of 50 Members of Congress introduced H.R. 5468, a bill to rename the Mainside post office aboard Camp Pendleton Marine Corps Base, the Camp Pendleton Medal of Honor Post Office. The post office is located at 1103 USPS Building 1103, Camp Pendleton, California, 92055. The Medal of Honor is our nation’s highest award for valor and heroism, often only given after the death of the serviceman or woman due to the extreme acts of heroism and selflessness. The post office will be named to specifically recognize those of the US Marine Corp and Navy Corpsman who have received the Congressional Medal of Honor and have close ties to Camp Pendleton. Congressman Issa released the following statement: “The stories of valor by Medal of Honor recipients are inspiring and worthy of remembrance by every citizen in our country,” said Congressman Issa. “This naming will serve as an enduring reminder for all that visit of the heroism of their fellow servicemen and servicewomen. To all of the Marines and Navy Corpsman with ties to Camp Pendleton we are grateful for your bravery and service.” Note: The post office facility is located at 1103 USPS Building 1103, Camp Pendleton, California, 92055. Full text of H.R. 5468 can be read here. Co-sponsors include: Rep. Darrell Issa, Rep. Karen Bass, Rep. Xavier Becerra, Rep. Ami Bera, Rep. Julia Brownley, Rep. Ken Calvert, Rep. John Campbell, Rep. Lois Capps, Rep. Tony Cardenas, Rep. Judy Chu, Rep. Paul Cook, Rep. Jim Costa, Rep. Susan Davis, Rep. Jeff Denham, Rep. Anna Eshoo, Rep. Sam Farr, Rep. John Garamendi, Rep. Janice Hahn, Rep. Mike Honda, Rep. Jared Huffman, Rep. Duncan Hunter, Rep. Doug LaMalfa, Rep. Barbara Lee, Rep. Zoe Lofgren, Rep. Alan Lowenthal, Rep. Doris Matsui, Rep. Tom McClintock, Rep. Buck McKeon, Rep. Jerry McNerney, Rep. Gary Miller, Rep. George Miller, Rep. Grace Napolitano, Rep. Grace Negrete McLeod, Rep. Devin Nunes, Rep. Scott Peters, Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard, Rep. Ed Royce, Rep. Loretta Sanchez, Rep. Linda Sanchez, Rep. Adam Schiff, Rep. Brad Sherman, Rep. Jackie Speier, Rep. Eric Swalwell, Rep. Mark Takano, Rep. Mike Thompson, Rep. David Valadao, Rep. Juan Vargas, Rep. Maxine Waters, and Rep. Henry Waxman.
09.17.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, September 17, 2014, Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement regarding a U.S. Government Accountability Office’s (“GAO”) report on Broadcaster disclosure requirements: “I appreciate GAO’s work to respond to our request. While the data necessary for a more comprehensive answer to our inquiry was not available, I’m pleased that GAO was able to provide a better understanding of how advertising disclosure requirements apply to all broadcasters. I hope that this information will enlighten future discussions on the topic.” The full report can be read here.
09.11.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, September 10, 2014, Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement: “ISIL flourished after this Administration rushed away our assistance to Iraq, lost international credibility by not backing up its ‘red line’ in Syria, and deferred action to allies who had depended on us to lead. Now that our enemies have gained strength after we showed weakness, the President has concluded that we must again put men and women of our armed forces in harm’s way. “We face a real threat and our nation needs to show leadership. If President Obama is finally ready to drop the wobbly rhetoric and lead a coalition, I am prepared to offer him the support he needs to put down the extremists who threaten us and have committed horrendous crimes against humanity. Several of my colleagues and I have put our support behind H.J. Resolution 123 which would require the President to present a strategic plan to Congress and replaces the old 2002 Authorization for Use of Military Force against Iraq and provides the President with a new short term authorization for the use of force to defeat ISIL. Rhetoric doesn’t win wars. if President Obama is now prepared to seek authorization for action against ISIL, I’m prepared to give it to him.” Note: Under the War Powers Resolution of 1973, the President only has the authorization to use military force for 60 days, which will expire on October 7, 2014, before coming to Congress for further authorization to extend any missions or operations. In addition, the proposed resolution would require the President to present a strategic plan to defeat ISIL to Congress, to formally revoke the 2002 Iraq War Powers Resolution and to create a new short term authorization for the use of force to defeat ISIL. Co-sponsors Include: Rep. Robert Aderholt, Rep. Michele Bachmann, Rep. Kerry Bentivolio, Rep. Marsha Blackburn, Rep. Paul Broun, Rep. Bradley Byrne, Rep. Trey Gowdy, Rep. Sam Johnson, Rep. David Jolly, Rep. Doug LaMalfa, Rep. Billy Long, Rep. Stevan Pearce, Rep. Dennis Ross, Rep Tim Walberg, and Rep. Roger Williams. Full text of H.J. Res 123 can be read here. ###
09.09.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, September 8, 2014, Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) along with 9 other Members of Congress, introduced legislation, H.J. Res 123, focused on the authorized use of military force against the radical group the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (“ISIL” also known as ISIS or IS). “It’s past time for President Obama to define a course of action,” said Congressman Issa. “The brutal murder of two American journalists was a shocking wake up call for the public, but the threat ISIL poses to America’s national interests has grown unchecked for some time. We need a strategic plan to stop the spread of their hateful ideology and violence. The defeat of ISIL must be a top priority – this resolution authorizes the use of force for a definite period and requires President Obama to develop and share his strategy with Congress and the American people.” Key Passages: Whereas the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) has committed acts of terrorism and crimes against humanity and continues to train and equip jihadists to further commit humanitarian atrocities in the region; Whereas ISIL jihadists have directly threatened the United States and its allies; Whereas the War Powers Resolution requires the President to obtain congressional authorization for the continued use of United States Armed Forces after the limitations specified in section 5(b) of such Resolution have been met; Whereas Congress, in order to determine the actions necessary and appropriate to protect the national security interests of the United States, must receive a strategic outlook on the role of the United States Armed Forces in combating ISIL; Whereas it is in the national security interest of the United States to restore international peace and security to the Middle East region… The President is authorized to use the Armed Forces of the United States as the President determines to be necessary and appropriate in order to defend the national security of the United States against the continuing threat posed by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). Note: Under the War Powers Resolution of 1973, the President only has the authorization to use military force for 60 days, which will expire on October 7, 2014, before coming to Congress for further authorization to extend any missions or operations. The full text of the H.J. Resolution 123 can be read here. Sponsors include: Rep. Darrell Issa, Rep. Trey Gowdy, Rep. Sam Johnson, Rep. Billy Long, Rep. Doug LaMalfa, Rep. Dennis Ross, Rep. Roger Williams, Rep. Kerry Bentivolio, Rep. David Jolly, and Rep. Bradley Byrne.
09.04.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, September 4, 2014, Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement regarding a joint resolution he plans to introduce in the US House of Representatives on Monday, September 8, 2014. The proposed resolution would require the President to present a strategic plan to defeat Islamic State of Iraq and Levant (“ISIL”) to Congress, to formally revoke the 2002 Iraq War Powers Resolution and to create a new short term authorization for the use of force to defeat ISIL. “This President has clearly stated that he does not have a plan to deal with the growing terrorist threat from ISIL. We cannot sit idly by as ISIL continues to target and brutally murder Americans while threatening US interests and those of our Allies. My resolution requires the President to promptly communicate a clear and concise plan to combat ISIL. “The responsibility and power to declare war and authorize the commitment of US forces lies with Congress and this resolution requires the President to create a plan with the guidance of the Department of Defense while simultaneously allowing all options available to him to address the current ISIL threat. “This resolution, consistent with the War Powers Resolution of 1973, would give the President a 120 day authorization to use force against ISIL in order to protect American interests and prevent the group’s further expansion. Within 60 days of passage, the President has to present to Congress a comprehensive strategy to stabilize the region and defeat the ISIL threat. “It’s time, Mr. President, to choose action over inaction, to execute a plan over rhetoric, and to protect American interests. The defeat of ISIL must be a top priority.” Note: Under the War Powers Resolution of 1973, the President only has the authorization to use military force for 60 days, which will expire on October 7, 2014, before coming to Congress for further authorization to extend any missions or operations.
08.22.2014	House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., today issued a subpoena to White House Chief of Staff Denis McDonough for documents related to the reopening of the White House political office after two members of President Obama’s cabinet (HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius and DOL Secretary Hilda Solis) were found to have violated laws intended to prevent the abuse of taxpayer dollars for partisan political efforts. After discussions between Committee and White House staffs , Chairman Issa earlier this month offered to narrow the scope of the Committee’s March 2014 document request to further accommodate the White House’s separation of powers concerns, but the White House has still not produced responsive documents after this extraordinary accommodation. In today’s letter to White House Chief of Staff Denis McDonough, Chairman Issa wrote: “On July 28, 2014, our staffs met at the White House to discuss a way forward. My staff made a number of proposals that would allow the Committee to get the information we need. For instance, to accommodate the White House’s stated concerns about having Mr. Simas testify publicly, my staff proposed that the Committee question Mr. Simas in a deposition setting. I also made that request in a letter dated July 24, 2014. To accommodate the White House’s stated concerns about producing documents that implicate the presidential communications privilege, my staff proposed a more narrow production of documents that would exclude communications between the President and his advisers. Indeed, I narrowed my original document request in a letter dated August 12, 2014.” Chairman Issa continued in the letter: “The White House has acknowledged that the dialogue has been constructive and that progress has been made. Unfortunately, these characterizations represent the total sum of what the White House has provided in response to my good faith proposals to address the White House’s separation of powers concerns. The White House has not produced any additional documents, nor has the White House stated if or when the Committee will hear from Mr. Simas. In short, the accommodations process, which the White House itself characterized as constructive, has netted the Committee absolutely nothing.” The subpoena requires that the White House provide the following: 1. All documents and communications referring or relating to, or developed as part of, opening the White House Office of Political Strategy and Outreach (OPSO), including, but not limited to, any document or communication referring or relating to: a. The purpose of OPSO; b. OPSO’s predecessor, the White House Office of Political Affairs, which closed in January 2011; c. Policies or guidelines for approval of travel; d. Classification of travel as political, official, or both; and, e. Criteria and processes for approval and classification determinations. 2. All documents and communications between and among OPSO employees referring or relating to President Obama’s June 26-27, 2014 trip to Minnesota and President Obama’s July 8-9, 2014 trip to Colorado, including, but not limited to, documents and communications referring or relating to the decision to add official events to the President’s itinerary. 3. All documents and communications to or from OPSO employees referring or relating to travel and/or political events involving Cabinet officials. In July, the Committee approved a resolution to reject a White House assertion of “absolute immunity” for White House Office of Political Strategy and Outreach Director David Simas, who has failed to appear before the Committee twice. Read today’s letter to White House Chief of Staff Denis McDonough here.
08.20.2014	House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., issued the following statement on United States District Judge Amy Berman Jackson’s order today that the Department of Justice must turn over a privilege log of withheld Operation Fast and Furious Documents by October 1. “Today a Federal judge ordered that the Department of Justice must submit by October 1 a privilege log of withheld documents related to Operation Fast and Furious. I am grateful and pleased by that. This Administration has been so intent on hiding the contents of these documents that it allowed Attorney General Holder to be held in contempt instead of just turning them over to Congress. The privilege log will bring us closer to finding out why the Justice Department hid behind false denials in the wake of reckless conduct that contributed to the violent deaths of Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry and countless Mexican citizens.” Under the judge’s order, the Department of Justice must produce non-privileged documents and a detailed list of privileged documents withheld by October 1st. The Oversight Committee will then have an opportunity to lodge specific objections to withheld documents until October 17th.
08.07.2014	House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) today released the following statement on the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) admission thatsenior HHS executive Marilyn Tavenner destroyed emails first subpoenaed ten months ago by the Committee related to the flawed launch of HealthCare.gov. So far, HHS has failed to comply with the Committee’s subpoena. “Today’s news that a senior HHS executive destroyed emails relevant to a congressional investigation means that the Obama Administration has lost or destroyed emails for more than 20 witnesses, and in each case, the loss wasn’t disclosed to the National Archives or Congress for months or years, in violation of federal law,” said Chairman Issa. “It defies logic that so many senior Administration officials were found to have ignored federal recordkeeping requirements only after Congress asked to see their emails. Just this week, my staff followed up with HHS, who has failed to comply with a subpoena from ten months ago. Even at that point, the administration did not inform us that there was a problem with Ms. Tavenner’s email history. Yet again, we discover that this Administration will not be forthright with the American people unless cornered.”
07.23.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, July 23, 2014, Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement on the passing of former Oregon Governor Victor Atiyeh: “I was saddened to hear about the recent passing of Governor Victor Atiyeh of Oregon. As the son of Syrian immigrants, Gov. Atiyeh was the first individual of Arab descent elected to serve as governor in the United States. He paved the way for other Arab Americans, including myself, as a role model for public service. Serving Oregon through the 1980’s, Gov. Atiyeh faithfully made the hard choices that put the best interests of his state first. He also chaired the Republican Governors Association, leading his peers as part of the vanguard of the Reagan Revolution of less intrusive government. My heartfelt condolences go out to Gov. Atiyeh’s wife Dolores, his two children and grandchildren. His example and inspiration live on.” Note: Governor Victor Atiyeh passed away at age 91 in Oregon on Sunday.
07.22.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., issued the following statement on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit’s ruling upholding a challenge to Obamacare health insurance subsidies being granted through the federal exchange: “The court’s decision is consistent with the Committee’s oversight, which through multiple briefings and hearings, learned that neither the Internal Revenue Service nor the Treasury Department conducted a serious or thorough analysis of the statute or the legislative history and intent prior to cobbling an ad hoc legal rationale for a key provision of the President’s healthcare law,” said Chairman Issa. “The Committee’s findings were the reason that I signed onto an amicus brief to invalidate the IRS rule which unlawfully expanded Obamacare’s spending and taxes.” Earlier this year, the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and the House Ways and Means Committee Chairman released a joint staff report finding that IRS and Treasury officials expressed concern that there was no authority to interpret federal exchanges as an “Exchange established by the State,” as was necessary to expand the subsidies. The Oversight Committee held multiple hearings, in August 2012 and July 2013, questioning the Administration’s legal basis for expanding Obamacare’s taxes and subsidies, and Chairman Issa challenged the Obama Administration's effort to ignore the plain language of Obamacare in March 2013.
07.17.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Energy and Commerce Communications and Technology Subcommittee Vice Chairman Bob Latta (R-OH), House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA), Communications and Technology Subcommittee Ranking Member Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) and Congresswoman Doris Matsui (D-CA) today introduced the Wi-Fi Innovation Act, legislation that addresses growing spectrum demand by examining ways to improve spectrum efficiency and maximize its use. “Demand for wireless spectrum is growing rapidly as smartphone and tablet users increasingly use Wi-Fi to connect to the Internet,” said Latta. “To accommodate this demand and support future mobile development and innovation, we must utilize spectrum more efficiently. The Wi-Fi Innovation Act paves a pathway to maximize the use of spectrum and examine ways to expand the deployment of wireless networks and services across the country, so all can benefit from this next-generation technology.” “From personal communication to transportation, healthcare and beyond, wireless technologies are changing and improving our lives,” said Issa. “The Wi-Fi Innovation Act will make available the spectrum necessary to support the best new inventions and the jobs and prosperity these new discoveries will foster. I applaud the bipartisan work between my House colleagues Congressman Bob Latta (R-OH), Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) and Congresswoman Doris Matsui (D-CA). Additionally, I am pleased to work in cooperation with both Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Senator Cory Booker (D-NJ) for their efforts to push a companion bill through the Senate.” “For three decades unlicensed spectrum has been the invisible backbone to myriad wireless technologies, ranging from Wi-Fi and Bluetooth to garage doors and cordless phones. But in order to unlock the next generation of wireless technology we need to optimize our finite amount of available spectrum,” said Eshoo. “Last year, 57 percent of America’s mobile data traffic was offloaded onto Wi-Fi networks supported by unlicensed spectrum. It’s also estimated that unlicensed spectrum accounted for more than $200 billion of the U.S. economy in 2013, including $36 billion in savings to consumers. The bipartisan, bicameral Wi-Fi Innovation Act directs the FCC to determine the extent to which unlicensed spectrum can be shared and utilized in increasingly innovative ways to benefit consumers and our economy. It’s this kind of forward-thinking that will produce enormous economic benefits and could yield untold technological discovery.” “Wi-Fi is already an integral part of our everyday lives; we must meet current demand and put in place a plan to meet growing needs,” continued Matsui. “The Wi-Fi Innovation Act will require the FCC to develop and adopt a testing process to evaluate the feasibility of sharing in the 5GHz band. It is my hope that the FCC will use this opportunity to produce hard data that can be relied upon during decision-making on the future of the 5GHz band. It is our responsibility to ensure that the U.S. continues to be the center for technology and innovation, and spectrum will be necessary to achieve this.” The Wi-Fi Innovation Act directs the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to conduct tests within the 5 GHz spectrum band to determine if spectrum can be shared without interfering with current users. The bill also acknowledges ongoing efforts related to the development of critical safety applications in vehicles and other intelligent transportation initiatives and creates a study to examine the barriers to Wi-Fi deployment in low-income areas. This legislation builds on Latta, Issa, Eshoo and Matsui’s leadership in unleashing more unlicensed spectrum for consumers and innovators. Last year, the four members led a letter to then Acting FCC Chairwoman Mignon Clyburn urging the agency to make additional spectrum available for unlicensed use in the 5GHz band.
07.11.2014	Oversight Letter Responds to Select Committee’s Request for Information WASHINGTON – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) today, in a 37 page letter to House Select Committee on Benghazi Chairman Trey Gowdy, detailed State Department efforts to obstruct the Congressional investigation into the Benghazi terrorist attacks. “In response to your request, I am providing detailed background information regarding the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform’s outstanding Benghazi-related document requests to the Executive Branch, as well as the status of any Benghazi-related production and compliance issues,” wrote Issa to Gowdy. “To be precise, the Department has not provided a full and complete response to two subpoenas, nor has the Department provided all documents responsive to many written requests. Moreover, the Department used numerous tactics to obstruct this investigation.” Among the topics covered in the 37 page letter covering the Oversight investigation from September 2012 until May 2014: The Committee’s early attempts beginning in September 2012 to obtain voluntary cooperation from the Department The Department’s repeated promises to cooperate, but continued failure to actually meet requests The Department’s efforts to hide important documents behind a talking point that it had made 25,000 pages available The Department’s wasteful efforts to cart documents in and out daily instead of turning them over to the Oversight Committee The Committee’s eventual decision in 2013 to issue subpoenas The State Department’s refusal to make all documents made available to and created by the Accountability Review Board (ARB) empanelled and selected by former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton State Department threats to destroy Committee property necessary for internal organization of in camera documents Abusive State Department document redaction practices Department unwillingness to cooperatively make witnesses available State Department efforts to selectively withhold and produce documents to support a pre-determined agency narrative Efforts to use the Justice Department as excuse for non-cooperation Possibly illegal efforts to retroactively classify documents to prevent their release Click here to read to full 37 page letter to Select Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy outlining State Department obstruction efforts.
07.11.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, July 11, 2014, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) joined Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Calif.) and Congressman Duncan Hunter (R-Calif.) in introducing a bill, H.R. 5079, that will allow for the expedited repatriation of unaccompanied children to their home country, including minors from countries that do not share a direct border with the United States. “The President’s unilateral actions have sent a misleading message that resulted in tens of thousands of children making a perilous journey to our country with the belief they would be allowed to stay. The best resolution to this humanitarian crisis is the safe return of these children to their families and country of origin. By promptly returning them home to their loved ones it sends a clear message that will discourage other children from making this dangerous trip.” Current immigration law, under the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008, allows expedited repatriation of unaccompanied minors to countries that border the United States. Under our legislation, the executive branch is permitted to enter into agreements with any country to address the repatriation of unaccompanied minors in the current crisis and any future immigration crises that may arise. Note: In fiscal year 2014 the number of unaccompanied minors entering the U.S. illegally is expected to reach 60,000, an increase of over 815% from just three years ago, with an additional increase of 60,000 to 90,000 expected to illegally enter next year. The full text of the H.R. 5079 can be read here.
07.11.2014	Committee Announces Subpoena of Director of the White House Office of Political Strategy and Outreach David Simas after refusal to testify voluntarily WASHINGTON – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., today announced a hearing on Wednesday, July 16th to examine the White House Office of Political Affairs (also known as the Office of Political Strategy and Outreach). The hearing, titled, “White House Office of Political Affairs: Is Supporting Candidates and Campaign Fund-Raising an Appropriate Use of a Government Office?” will feature current and former White House staff as well as U.S. Special Counsel Carolyn Lerner, who the leads the agency responsible for enforcing the Hatch Act. The Hatch Act limits certain political activities of federal employees to ensure that official government business is separate from partisan political activity. “In an effort to appease its political allies, the Obama Administration broadcast its intention to re-open a political office within the White House to assist in partisan election efforts and fundraising,” said Chairman Issa. “This follows a serious pattern of behavior at the highest levels of the Administration. FormerSecretary of Labor Hilda Solis and former Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius, both members of President Obama’s cabinet, were faulted by the Office of Special Counsel for inappropriately using their offices in violation of the Hatch Act. This hearing will examine abuses of taxpayer funds for political gain and the level of White House commitment to preventing them.” In January 2014, the White House announced the reopening of the Office of Political Affairs (OPA) under a new name, heightening concerns about the Administration’s compliance with the Hatch Act. The reopened OPA will reportedly focus on the needs of Democratic candidates, including fundraising. President Obama closed OPA in 2011, just days before the U.S. Office of Special Counsel issued a report that found the basic structure of OPA violated federal law, and that the political activities of OPA staff amounted to misuse of taxpayer funds. Scott Coffina, a former Associate Counsel to the President during the Bush Administration, and Carolyn Lerner, U.S. Special Counsel, have confirmed that they will testify next week. David Simas, Director of the White House Office of Political Strategy and Outreach, will testify under subpoena after declining the Committee’s July 3rd invitation. Timeline of White House Office of Political Affairs 2007: The U.S. Office of Special Counsel begins investigating the George W. Bush White House Office of Political Affairs. October 2008: After interviewing 20 political appointees and receiving nearly 70,000 documents, Committee Chairman Henry Waxman releases a staff report one month before the election finding that “American taxpayers should not pay the salaries of White House officials when they are engaged in helping members of the President’s political party.” The Waxman report recommends the elimination of the White House Office of Political Affairs. [The Waxman Report]. January 2011: President Obama closes the Office of Political Affairs. Only days later, OSC issues a report finding that “OPA employees should avoid engaging in political activities to prevent it from transforming from an official government office into a partisan political operation.” The report quotes a Hatch Act expert, who states, “there is a powerful argument that having an Office of Political Affairs that is active in political campaigns is not necessary or even a desirable component of the political advisory function in the White House.” [OSC Report] January 2014: The White House announces reinstatement of OPA, for the purpose of “defending Democratic control of the Senate and taking back the House from Republicans” and to “focus attention on candidate needs, including fund-raising.” [N.Y. Times] February 10, 2014: The Committee writes to OSC requesting communications between the White House and OSC regarding the reopening of OPA. [Letter attached] February 11, 2014: According to a letter from Special Counsel Carolyn Lerner to the Committee, the White House did not consult with OSC before reopening OPA. [Letter attached] March 18, 2014: The Committee writes to the White House requesting all documents related to the reopening of OPA. [Letter attached] March 26, 2014: White House Counsel Kathryn Ruemmler writes to the Committee. According to the letter, the White House Counsel’s Office is in “regular contact with OSC,” and has obtained the latest guidance on Hatch Act compliance from OSC. The White House fails to produce any of the requesteddocuments. [Letter attached] May 27, 2014: The Committee writes to the White House again requesting documents related to the reopening of OPA. [Letter attached] June 13, 2014: White House Counsel W. Neil Eggleston writes to the Committee, explaining the role of the new White House political office. The White House again fails to produce any documents. [Letter attached] Hearing Details: Wednesday, July 16, 2014 “White House Office of Political Affairs: Is Supporting Candidates and Campaign Fund-Raising an Appropriate Use of a Government Office?” Full Committee, Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) 10:00 a.m. in Rayburn 2154 and streaming at oversight.house.gov. Witnesses Mr. Scott Coffina Partner Drinker, Biddle & Reath, LLP The Honorable Carolyn Lerner U.S. Office of Special Counsel Mr. David Simas Director Office of Political Strategy and Outreach The White House
07.09.2014	‘I was cautioning folks about email and how we have several occasions where Congress has asked for emails … we need to be cautious about what we say in emails’ he House Oversight and Government Reform Committee today released new e-mails at a hearing with IRS Commissioner John Koskinen showing former Internal Revenue Service (IRS) official Lois Lerner leading an IRS effort to hide information from Congressional inquiries. From the April 9, 2013, email exchange among Lerner, an IRS technology employee (Maria Hooke), and the agency’s Director for Exempt Organizations Exam Unit Manager Nanette Downing who led audits: I had a question today about OCS [Microsoft Office Communications Server]. I was cautioning folks about email and how we have several occasions where Congress has asked for emails and there has been an electronic search for responsive emails – so we need to be cautious about what we say in emails. Someone asked if OCS conversations were also searchable – I don’t know, but told them I would get back to them. Do you know? Lerner’s April 2013 e-mail exchanges came just twelve days after the IRS Inspector General shared a draft copy of its targeting audit with the IRS that Lerner would leak at a bar association speech only weeks before the scandal became public. In e-mails withheld from the Committee until only last week, Lerner was apparently concerned that IRS conversations taking place within the agency’s instant messenger program could end up in the hands of Congress along with requested e-mails. An IRS technology employees responded that “OCS messages are not set to automatically save” but cautioned that “parties involved in an OCS conversation can copy and save the contents of the conversation to an email or file.” Lerner responded, “Perfect.” When Rep. Jim Jordan, R-Ohio, raised the e-mail to Commissioner Koskinen’s attention, Koskinen said he had never seen the e-mail and was unfamiliar with the OCS communication system. You can read the new Lerner e-mails here.
07.02.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) along with 34 other Members of Congress sent a letter to President Barack Obama on the current immigration crisis involving unaccompanied minors crossing our nation’s southern border. Currently, thousands of minor children are undertaking a perilous journey from their home countries to the United States. The letter calls on the President to end the unilateral executive action known as “Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA)” and to make an explicit public commitment that newly arrived illegal immigrants will not receive legal status. Below is an excerpt from the letter to President Obama: “As our country faces an unprecedented surge in the arrival of unaccompanied alien children (UACs) at our southwestern border, we call on you to immediately end the failed policies that encourage young individuals to put themselves in peril, leave their home countries, and make a long and dangerous journey to enter our country illegally.” “As Congress considers legislative proposals to ensure our system is reserved for deserving applicants, we urge you to cooperate with Congressional leaders to provide accurate data on the recent surge and work for legislative reforms that ensure the safe repatriation of these minor children to family members in their home countries and provide the commitment necessary to secure our border.” Note: The full text of the letter can be read here. Signatures include: Rep. Darrell Issa, Rep. Pete Sessions, Rep. Sam Graves, Rep. Lamar Smith, Rep. Blake Farenthold, Rep. Gus Bilirakis, Rep. Marsha Blackburn, Rep. T0m McClintock, Rep. John Duncan, Rep. Tom Cotton, Rep Jim Bridenstine, Rep. Alan Nunnelee, Rep. Gregg Harper, Rep. Doug LaMalfa, Rep. Paul Gosar, Rep. Lynn Jenkins, Rep. Vicky Hartzler, Rep. Tom Cole, Rep. Markwayne Mullin, Rep. Ken Calvert, Rep. Brad Wenstrup, Rep. Virginia Foxx, Rep. Ander Crenshaw, Rep. Phil Gingrey, Rep. Rob Wittman, Rep. Ralph Hall, Rep. Roger Williams, Rep John Campbell, Rep. Steve Stockman, Rep. Dan Benishek, Rep. David Jolly, Rep. Ted Yoho, Rep. Tim Griffin, Rep. Michael Burgess, and Rep. Rob Woodall.
06.26.2014	WASHINGTON – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., issued the following statement on today’s Supreme Court decision in NLRB v. Noel Canning, which struck down President Obama’s recess appointments to the National Labor Relations Board: “Today’s Supreme Court decision is encouraging for all who believe in the checks and balances enshrined in our nation’s constitution. The Court is right to reject the President’s political gamesmanship, which places the special interests of union bosses ahead of American workers and job creators. This unanimous decision makes it clear that President Obama acted without any legitimate authority and his power grab is outside any meaningful debate about the balance of power between the executive and legislative branches.” In February 2012, the Committee held a hearing on the consequences of the President’s unprecedented “recess” appointments to the NRLB. The Committee also issued a report on in December 2012 titled, “President Obama’s Pro-Union Board: The NLRB’s Metamorphosis from Independent Regulator to Dysfunctional Union Advocate.”
06.19.2014	WASHINGTON –House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, issued the following statement on news that the IRS destroyed Lois Lerner’s hard drive containing e-mails from the time period of IRS targeting: “If the IRS truly got rid of evidence in a way that violated the Federal Records Act and ensured the FBI never got a crack at recovering files from an official claiming a Fifth amendment protection against self-incrimination , this is proof their whole line about ‘losing’ e-mails in the targeting scandal was just one more attempted deception. Old and useless binders of information are still stored and maintained on federal agency shelves; official records, like the e-mails of a prominent official, don’t just disappear without a trace unless that was the intention.”
06.17.2014	WASHINGTON –House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., today made the following statement on the capture of Ahmad Abu Khatallah for the attacks on the US diplomatic facilities in Benghazi, Libya: “The arrest of Ahmed Abu Khatallah is long overdue and our military deserves credit for conducting a successful operation. There is evidence that he is one of dozens, if not hundreds of individuals, involved in the murder of four Americans in Benghazi. The Obama Administration has an obligation to share whatever information he offers with Chairman Gowdy and the Select Committee about events before and during the Benghazi attacks.”
06.16.2014	WASHINGTON –House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., today subpoenaed Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner John Koskinen to testify before the Oversight Committee on Monday, June 23, 2014, at 7:00 p.m. The subpoena comes as a result of the agency’s recent statement that the IRS lost an unknown number of emails pertaining to the activities of former IRS official Lois Lerner from January 2009 to April 2011. It also comes on the heels of the IRS’s repeated empty promises of compliance with oversight. In a letter that accompanied the subpoena, Issa stated: “Congress passed the Federal Records Act (FRA) to preserve key documents—such as those that were stored on Lerner’s hard drive—for production to congressional investigators and other stakeholders, including historians and FOIA requesters. The FRA requires agencies to make and preserve records of agency decisions, policies, and essential transactions, and to take steps to safeguard against the loss of agency records.” He continued, “I will not tolerate your continued obstruction and game-playing in response to the Committee’s investigation of the IRS targeting. For too long, the IRS has promised to produce requested – and, later, subpoenaed – documents, only to respond later with excuses and inaction. Despite your empty promises and broken commitments to cooperation, the IRS still insists on flouting Constitutional congressional oversight. “ Read the letter to the IRS here. The subpoena requires Koskinen’s appearance and testimony before the Committee on Monday, June 23, 2014, at 7:00 p.m. in room 2154 of the Rayburn House Office Building. Koskinen had testified earlier this year that he would comply with the Committee’s subpoena request for documents and did not mention at the time that any had been lost.
06.16.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement on the passing of longtime radio personality Casey Kasem: “I had the privilege of getting to know Casey when we traveled to Lebanon together many years ago and through his dedicated work on behalf of the Lebanese-American community. He was someone who worked tirelessly for the causes in which he believed, and who cared deeply about improving the lives of those around him. I am proud to have called him a friend and will miss him greatly.” Note: Case Kasem passed away at age 82 in Washington state Sunday.
06.05.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, House Oversight and Government Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., issued the following statement in response to the news that the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the Department of Justice will not be pursuing charges against Ernesto Pulido, a California tree-trimmer who unintentionally injured five baby birds while performing a job for which the U.S. Postal Service had hired him. “I’m glad to hear that in the case of Mr. Pulido, the bureaucratic bullies have backed down. The decision to press charges in the first place seems to have been based more on public outcry from outside groups and less on common sense. Mr. Pulido made a mistake, but took responsibility and made substantial efforts to make amends. The Committee still has unanswered questions about this entire head-scratching incident and looks forward to hearing directly from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, which must still comply with the Committee’s document request.” On May 28, 2014, Issa sent a letter to the FWS questioning the agency’s decision to pursue federal prosecution in the case. The letter requested FWS provide documents and communications about its decision by June 4, 2014.
05.30.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., released the following statement on the resignation of Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki: “Our veterans, who sacrificed their safety and risked their lives for their country, deserve the best care our nation can provide. It is our duty to ensure that no veteran is ever subjected to excessive wait times or substandard care. With Secretary Shinseki’s resignation today, we can begin to address the systemic dysfunction that has plagued the Department of Veterans Affairs for years. Only a thorough independent investigation, followed by real reform, can finally solve the deeply rooted problems at the VA and fulfill our commitment to our nation’s veterans.” In July 2012, the Oversight Committee held a hearing on the claims backlog at the VA. In October 2013, the Committee held a hearing on the culture of mismanagement and wasteful spending at the Department.
05.28.2014	WASHINGTON – House Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., today sent a letter to U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) Director Daniel Ashe questioning the agency’s decision to press charges against a California tree-trimmer who inadvertently violated the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (MBTA) while performing a job commissioned by the U.S. Postal Service. “The Committee is concerned that Mr. [Ernesto] Pulido is being subjected to an unfair and unnecessary prosecution because FWS is responding to public pressure to act but does not want to seek redress from a fellow federal agency, the U.S. Postal Service,” Issa writes. “During my time as Chairman of the House Oversight Committee, many agencies have failed to take action and the Justice Department has declined or failed to prosecute federal employees for offenses including: receiving thousands of dollars in impermissible gifts from lobbyists ; watching pornography on government computers while on the job ; operating private businesses from their offices ; lying on official timecards for years ; and spending outrageous sums of taxpayer dollars at Las Vegas conventions. “When so many government workers are offered a pass, referring and prioritizing charges against a private citizen for incidental and relatively minor injuries to a non-endangered species – commissioned by a federal agency no less – appears nothing short of bureaucratic bullying,” the letter states. On May 3rd, while trimming trees at the behest of the Postal Service, Mr. Pulido cut limbs containing Black-Crowned Night Herons, reportedly injuring five birds that were then taken to a nearby bird rescue for treatment. No birds were killed and, according to reports, Mr. Pulido is paying for the care of the injured birds. The FWS has publically stated that U.S. attorneys are expected to file formal charges within a week, which will carry a maximum fine of $15,000 and six months in jail. The letter requests FWS provide documents and communications about its decision by June 4, 2014. You can read the letter to Director Ashe here.
05.22.2014	WASHINGTON – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., released the following statement on Internal Revenue Service Commissioner John Koskinen’s decision to scrap a proposed rule to limit political speech by nonprofit and social welfare organizations: “I am pleased the Internal Revenue Service has at least temporarily heeded the serious concerns expressed by myself and countless others, and has decided to scrap its proposed rule change restricting the political speech of social welfare groups. Ultimately, the flawed IRS rule drew the ire of First Amendment advocates on both the left and right – these Americans, who broke records with critical comments about the proposed rule, deserve the most credit for blocking the implementation of the Administration’s wrong-headed and ill-advised proposal.” On February 4, 2014, Chairman Issa and Rep. Jim Jordan sent a letter to Commissioner Koskinen urging him to abandon the proposed rule.
05.22.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., released the following statement praising the House’s passage of the Federal Information and Technology Acquisition Reform Act as part of H.R. 4435, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015. “I applaud the House for acting today to dramatically improve the way government agencies buy and manage their information technology systems. We spend more than $80 billion a year on federal IT systems, yet the cost overruns and failure rate for these programs is as high as 80 percent. American taxpayers deserve a better return on their investment. By streamlining responsibility and centralizing budget authority, this bipartisan legislation will go a long way to increasing accountability and cutting waste. ” The House passed H.R. 4435 on a bipartisan vote of 325-98.
05.22.2014	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) submitted the following as part of a Congressional record statement on the House’s passage of H.R. 3361, The USA FREEDOM Act. Rep. Issa originally cosponsored the reform measure dealing with the NSA’s bulk collection of data and supported it in the Judiciary Committee, but ultimately opposed it today after critical changes weakened the legislation: “The original and Committee-passed versions of the USA FREEDOM Act struck a careful balance between our liberty and our security, providing the reforms necessary to restore trust. I was proud to be an original co-sponsor of this bill, and commend Representative Jim Sensenbrenner and Chairman Bob Goodlatte for their work to protect our civil liberties. “Unfortunately, the floor-version of the USA FREEDOM Act falls short of our goal. “Of the few transparency requirements left in the bill, significant construction of law made by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) would be reviewed for declassification to the American people. However, the floor version of the bill transfers the authority to conduct declassification to the Director of National Intelligence, James Clapper. Last year, Director Clapper lied under oath to Congress when asked about the existence of programs that collect data on millions of Americans. I cannot in good conscious support legislation that would place the responsibility of transparency with a government official who has already violated the trust of the American people. “For these reasons, I will not support the floor version of the USA FREEDOM Act. I hope that my colleagues and I will be able to come together to enact reforms the American people deserve.” The House approved the bill on a vote of 303 to 121, with Rep. Issa opposing passage. Note: Read Congressman Issa’s full Statement for the Record here.
05.21.2014	Today, the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee adopted bills to enhance postal delivery, improve the Government’s use of design-build contracts, and promote federal information transparency. H.R. 4670, Secure Delivery for America Act of 2014, was reported favorably to the House as amended on a vote of 18-13. Introduced by Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., the bill will require the Postal Service to convert 1.5 million addresses per year over the next 10 years from “to the door” delivery to more cost-effective modes of delivery, including secure centralized delivery. USPS estimates that converting 15 million addresses to secure centralized delivery or curbside delivery will save more than $2 billion a year. The Committee also reported H.R. 2750, the Design-Build Efficiency and Jobs Act of 2013, favorably to the House as amended by voice vote. The bill, introduced by Rep. Sam Graves (R-MO), modifies the procedure for awarding design and construction contracts for federal buildings and facilities. The bill, among other changes, requires the use of the two-phase selection process for contracts costing more than $1.5 million and requires relevant agencies to submit annual reports to the Government Accountability Office. H.R. 4671, Public Interest Declassification Board Reauthorization Act of 2014 was reported favorably to the House as amended by voice vote. Introduced by Chairman Issa, the bill extends the authorization of the Public Interest Declassification Board, which is set to expire on December 31, 2014, for an additional 3 years. The following postal namings were adopted by unanimous consent: · H.R. 43, to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 14 Red River Avenue North in Cold Spring, Minnesota, as the “Officer Tommy Decker Memorial Post Office;” · H.R. 451, to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 500 North Brevard Avenue in Cocoa Beach, Florida, as the “Richard K. Salick Post Office;” · H.R. 606, to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 815 County Road 23 in Tyrone, New York, as the “Specialist Christopher Scott Post Office Building;” · H.R. 1671, to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 6937 Village Parkway in Dublin, California, as the “James ‘Jim’ Kohnen Post Office;” · H.R. 1707, to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 302 East Green Street in Champaign, Illinois, as the “James R. Burgess Jr. Post Office Building;” · H.R. 1865, to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 35 Park Street in Danville, Vermont, as the “Thaddeus Stevens Post Office;” · H.R. 2112, to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 787 State Route 17M in Monroe, New York, as the “National Clandestine Service of the Central Intelligence Agency NCS Officer Gregg David Wenzel Memorial Post Office;” · H.R. 2223, to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 220 Elm Avenue in Munising, Michigan, as the “Elizabeth L. Kinnunen Post Office Building;” · H.R. 2291, to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 450 Lexington Avenue in New York, New York, as the “Vincent R. Sombrotto Post Office;” · H.R. 2678, to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 10360 Southwest 186th Street in Miami, Florida, as the “Larcenia J. Bullard Post Office Building;” · H.R. 2802, to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 418 Liberty Street in Covington, Indiana, as the “Fountain County Veterans Memorial Post Office;” · H.R. 3027, to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 442 Miller Valley Road in Prescott, Arizona, as the “Barry M. Goldwater Post Office;” · H.R. 3085, to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 3349 West 111th Street in Chicago, Illinois, as the “Captain Herbert Johnson Memorial Post Office Building;” · H.R. 3534, to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 113 West Michigan Avenue in Jackson, Michigan, as the “Officer James Bonneau Memorial Post Office;” · H.R. 4355, to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 201 B Street in Perryville, Arkansas, as the “Harold George Bennett Post Office.”
05.19.2014	WASHINGTON – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., today released the following statement on the President’s signing into law of H.R. 4192, to amend the 1910 Height of Buildings Act. The legislation, which passed the House on April 28 and the Senate on May 6, will allow the District of Columbia government to approve human occupancy of penthouses up to one-story tall above the top story of buildings in the city. The bill was introduced in March by Chairman Issa and co-sponsored by Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton, D-D.C. “This change to the 104-year-old D.C. Height Act gives the district additional options for selective growth and development in some city sectors without disrupting the iconic Washington skyline and public areas,” said Chairman Issa. “I’d like to thank Congresswoman Norton, Mayor Gray, the City Council Chairman Phil Mendelson and the National Capital Planning Commission for working together with me on this proposal.” Click here for the text of H.R. 4192, to amend the 1910 Height of Buildings Act.
05.09.2014	WASHINGTON – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA), issued the following statement today on the President’s signing into law of The Digital Accountability and Transparency Act (DATA Act). The federal spending transparency legislation was co-sponsored by Sen. Mark Warner (D-VA) and Sen. Rob Portman (R-OH) in the Senate, and Ranking Member Elijah Cummings (D-MD) in the House. “The enactment of the DATA Act marks a transformation in government transparency by shedding light on runaway federal spending,” said Chairman Issa. “The reforms of this bipartisan legislation not only move the federal bureaucracy into the digital era, but they improve accountability to taxpayers and provide tools to allow lawmakers and citizen watchdogs to root out waste and abuse. Government-wide structured data requirements may sound like technical jargon, but the real impact of this legislation on our lives will be more open, more effective government.” First introduced by Chairman Issa and Ranking Member Cummings in 2011, the DATA Act standardizes reporting requirements and publishes spending information online in a useable format for journalists, watchdogs, and the public. The DATA Act allows lawmakers and the public to track federal dollars by establishing government-wide structured data standards for contracts, loans, and grants. The legislation establishes a two-year pilot for consolidated recipient reporting for entities receiving federal taxpayer funds, including states, localities, and universities. The legislation authorizes the Treasury Department to create a data analytics center to enable law enforcement and federal agency inspectors general to prevent improper payments. The DATA Act will improve the quality of federal spending data by requiring information to be made publically available on a single website, USASpending.gov, in a standardized, downloadable, and machine-readable format. Click here for a summary and here for the text of the DATA Act.
05.08.2014	WASHINGTON – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) issued the following statement on the U.S. House of Representatives vote to establish the Select Committee on the Events Surrounding Benghazi headed by Oversight Committee member Trey Gowdy (R-SC). “Today’s vote to establish a Select Committee on Benghazi is an important step toward making the White House accountable to the American people. This administration has obscured facts around their response to the tragedy, withheld documents from Congress and the President himself called this tragic loss of life a ‘phony scandal’. Building on the efforts of the Oversight Committee, the newly formed Select Committee on Benghazi will work to pull the White House’s deception into the light.”
05.08.2014	WASHINGTON – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) issued the following statement on the U.S. House of Representatives bipartisan vote finding former Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Exempt Organizations Director Lois Lerner in contempt of Congress for refusing to testify about the IRS’s targeting of Tea Party and other conservative organizations applying for exempt status: “While I am disappointed that Ms. Lerner decided to face our criminal justice system instead of testifying fully and truthfully before Congress, this vote is a step toward a level of accountability that the Obama Administration has been unwilling to take. Read Congressman Issa’s Statement and the Committee’s Full Press Release “Lois Lerner presided over an effort to deprive Americans of their rights to participate in our political process and failed to meet her legal obligations to answer questions. E-mails and other documents obtained by the Committee have shown that IRS targeting of conservative groups occurred after she felt pressured to act following robust criticism by President Obama and other prominent members of his party about the Supreme Court’s 2010 ruling in the Citizens Unitedcase. “To preempt the release of an independent investigation, Ms. Lerner publicly admitted that the IRS division she led had targeted conservatives. After waiving her right to protection from self-incrimination, Lerner had a choice: testify fully and truthfully about what occurred or face criminal contempt. Ms. Lerner refused to testify even after her attorney told Congress she would do so. “Unless the President decides to assert executive privilege, there is no precedent for the U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia to do anything but pursue this criminal case. Absent political interference by the Administration, this legally binding action – as well as a separate resolution calling for a special prosecutor to take over the Main Justice Department’s tainted and dormant investigation – require the Justice Department to take action.” The House approved H.Res. 574, finding Director Lerner in contempt, on a vote of 231 to 187, with 6 Democrats voting yes. The House approved H.Res. 565, requesting the appointment of a special prosecutor to investigate the IRS targeting scandal on a vote of 250 to 168, with 26 Democrats voting yes. Click here for the Oversight Committee’s report on Lois Lerner’s role in the IRS targeting scandal.
05.05.2014	WASHINGTON – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., today released the following statement in response to Speaker Boehner’s announcement that Oversight Committee member Rep. Trey Gowdy, R-S.C., will chair the House select committee to investigate the attacks in Benghazi: “Speaker Boehner could not have chosen a Member more committed to getting the full truth about the before, during, and after of the Benghazi terrorist attacks than Congressman Trey Gowdy. Trey has been an integral contributor to the Oversight Committee investigation and takes the knowledge we have gained, through subpoenas and individual testimony, to his new role leading the new Select Committee. I look forward to continuing to work with him as he leads the effort, across committee jurisdictions, to find facts, accountability, and needed reforms.”
05.02.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., released the following statement on the announcement that Speaker Boehner intends to establish a House select committee to investigate the September 11, 2012 terrorist attack in Benghazi: “Ongoing White House obstruction has repeatedly delayed and impaired efforts to get to the bottom of what occurred before, during, and after the terrorist attack that killed four Americans in Benghazi. Access to the interagency decision making process, including the White House, is critical to understanding what occurred. Empowering a Select Committee that has subpoena power, full access to information about intelligence sources and methods, as well as classified details about why – as Brigadier General Robert Lovell testified yesterday – the military was constrained in its ability to come to the aid of Americans under attack will shed fuller light on the truth. “The Oversight Committee still expects Secretary Kerry to appear subject to subpoena on May 21. He is still legally responsible for producing material responsive to the three document subpoenas issued by the Oversight Committee. I support Speaker Boehner’s decision and will work to share the insight we have learned at the Oversight Committee and encourage sources who have been in contact with our Committee to also cooperate with the new Select Committee.” The Oversight Committee has held four public hearings on the Benghazi attacks on October 10, 2012, May 8, 2013, September 19, 2013, and May 1, 2014.
04.28.2014	WASHINGTON – The House today passed H.R. 4192, to amend the 1910 Height of Buildings Act, as amended, on a recorded vote of 367-16. The legislation will allow the District of Columbia government to approve human occupancy of penthouses up to one-story tall above the top story of buildings in the city. WATCH CHAIRMAN ISSA DISCUSS H.R. 4192 “The height of buildings in this city will not change by one foot under this Act, but the beauty of tops of buildings and their usability will. The revenue to the city can increase because of the value of these top floors and yet we will cover up mechanical penthouses that today are simply elevator shafts, rooftop air conditioners, water towers and the like,” Chairman Issa said on the House floor today. “Those [proposed developments] will continue to go through a rigorous process before they can be approved and they will continue to be consistent with the 1910 Height Act…. This bill simply gives the city a little more latitude in penthouses where ugly mechanical penthouses already exist and are allowed.” The change enacted by H.R. 4192 was one of the recommendations made by the National Capital Planning Commission report released on November 27, 2013.
04.28.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) praised unanimous House passage of the bipartisan Digital Accountability and Transparency Act (DATA Act) which was approved earlier this month in the Senate and now heads to President Obama’s desk for his signature. The DATA Act is sponsored by Chairman Issa and Ranking Member Cummings in the House and by Sens. Mark R. Warner (D-VA) and Rob Portman (R-OH) in the Senate. Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee Chairman Tom Carper (D-DE) and Ranking Member Tom Coburn (R-OK) helped craft the final legislation. First introduced by Chairman Issa and Ranking Member Cummings in 2011, the DATA Act originated from the success of the Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board, an entity of the “Stimulus” spending bill that standardized reporting requirements and published spending information online in a useable format for journalists, watchdogs, and the public. The DATA Act applies the same tools to revolutionize how lawmakers and the public can track federal dollars by establishing government-wide structured data standards for contracts, loans, and grants. The legislation establishes a two-year pilot for consolidated recipient reporting for entities receiving federal taxpayer funds, including states, localities, and universities. The legislation authorizes the Treasury Department to create a data analytics center based on the successful Recovery Operations Center to enable law enforcement and federal agency inspectors general to prevent improper payments. The DATA Act will improve the quality of federal spending data by requiring information to be made publically available on a single website, USASpending.gov, in a standardized, downloadable, and machine-readable format. “Today’s passage of the DATA Act is a victory for taxpayers,” said Chairman Issa. “Addressing rampant waste and fraud in government starts with making publicly accessible, structured information available online for everyone—taxpayers and watchdogs alike. I applaud my House colleagues’ bipartisan action today to reform and improve spending transparency. The DATA Act is a win for good government, moving the federal bureaucracy into the digital age and setting the stage for real accountability.” “I am pleased to support this landmark bill that will make fundamental changes to the way the government shares information about its spending,” said Ranking Member Cummings. “By making government spending more transparent, we will reduce wasteful spending and make the government more effective and efficient.” Click here for a summary and here for the text of the DATA Act. WATCH: Chairman Issa’s House Floor Speech on DATA
04.10.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee voted 21-12 to adopt a resolution recommending the House find former IRS official Lois Lerner in contempt of Congress for refusing to testify before the Committee. “Today, the Oversight Committee upheld its obligation to pursue the truth about the IRS targeting of Americans because of their political beliefs,” said Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif. “Our investigation has found that former IRS Exempt Organizations division Director Lois Lerner played a central role in the targeting scandal and then failed to meet her legal obligations to answer questions after she waived her right not to testify. In demanding answers and holding a powerful government official accountable for her failure to meet her legal obligations, this Committee did its job. If the House takes up and passes the resolution, the matter will be referred to the U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia, which statute requires he take to a grand jury.” Background: - On May 22, 2013, Ms. Lerner was subpoenaed to testify at a hearing on the IRS targeting scandal. Ms. Lerner made a wide-ranging voluntary statement asserting her innocence, then stated that she intended to invoke her Fifth Amendment right not to testify. The hearing was adjourned so members could consider whether or not Ms. Lerner had waived her rights by issuing a statement. - On June 28, 2013, the Committee voted that Ms. Lerner had waived her Fifth Amendment right by making an opening statement and could be called back to answer questions. - On March 5, 2014, the Chairman reconvened the May 22nd hearing. Ms. Lerner refused to answer Committee questions, again stating that she intended to invoke her Fifth Amendment right. - On March 11, 2014, the Committee released a staff report titled, “Lois Lerner’s Involvement in the IRS Targeting of Tax-Exempt Organizations.” - On April 8, 2014, the Committee released a report recommending that the House find Lois Lerner in contempt of Congress for refusal to comply with a duly issued subpoena.
04.10.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, the U.S. Senate passed the bipartisan Digital Accountability and Transparency Act (DATA Act) by unanimous consent. This landmark transparency legislation reflects a compromise drafted by the bill sponsors and bipartisan Committee leaders from both chambers. The DATA Act is sponsored by Sens. Mark R. Warner (D-VA) and Rob Portman (R-OH) in the Senate and by Reps. Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Elijah Cummings (D-MD) in the House. Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee Chairman Tom Carper (D-DE) and Ranking Member Tom Coburn also helped broker the bipartisan agreement. The DATA Act would allow taxpayers to track every dollar spent by federal agencies and help lawmakers more easily identify fraud, waste and abuse to create a more efficient government. It expands the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act (FFATA) to fully disclose all federal agency expenditures. It also takes steps to simplify financial reporting and improve the quality of spending data. “The American taxpayer deserves to know when, where and how his or her money is spent,” said Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif., Chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and lead sponsor of the DATA Act in the House of Representatives. “Without accurate, timely, program by program spending data, we will never be able to truly track federal spending, which is the only way we can address the massive amount of waste and fraud in government. I am proud of the bill we are advancing because it lays the foundation for a digital revolution in how we govern. I applaud the Senate’s action today, and I will work with my House colleagues to send this bipartisan, bicameral compromise to the President’s desk.” “Our taxpayers deserve to know how their federal funds are spent—dollar for dollar—and it is the government’s obligation to share that information in a clear and accessible way. Today, the Senate passed this important bipartisan legislation to make sure taxpayers get the transparency they deserve,” Sen. Mark Warner, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee’s Government Performance Task Force said. “The DATA Act will improve the way the federal government does business and it’s a true example of how Washington is supposed to work — across the aisle and on both sides of the Capitol.” “During a time of record $17 trillion debt, our bipartisan bill will help identify and eliminate wasteful spending by better tracking federal spending. I am pleased that our bill to improve federal financial transparency and empower taxpayers to see how their money is spent has passed the Senate, and I urge swift passage in the House of Representatives,” Sen. Portman said. “This legislation will make the government more effective and efficient through greater transparency and greater accountability in how agencies spend taxpayer dollars. The Comptroller General of the United States testified this week that the DATA Act is one of the best things Congress could do to increase transparency in federal spending, and I am pleased we are one step closer to getting this legislation enacted,” Ranking Member Cummings said. “Government works best when it’s transparent and accessible to everyone. That’s why the DATA Act is such a critical piece of legislation. By increasing the availability, accuracy, and usefulness of federal spending information, we enhance government transparency, improve accountability, and reduce wasteful government spending. This legislation also takes an important step towards the establishment of government-wide financial data standards, which will significantly improve the ability of policymakers and the public to analyze how federal tax dollars are being spent. I’d like to thank Dr. Coburn and Senators Warner and Portman for their tireless work and leadership on this effort,” Sen. Carper said. The DATA Act has strong bipartisan support from its cosponsors in the U.S. Senate, including Senators Ayotte (R-NH), Carper (D-DE), Coburn (R-OK), Coons (D-DE), Enzi (R-WY), Johnson (R- WI), McCain (R- AZ), Murray (D-WA) and Whitehouse (D-RI). S.994 is a Senate companion to legislation sponsored by U.S. House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Ranking Member Elijah Cummings (D-MD), and cosponsored by Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), Rep. Jared Polis (D-CO), Rep. Blake Farenthold (R-TX), Rep. Mike Quigley (D-IL), Rep. John Campbell (R-CA), Rep. Michael Honda (D-CA), Rep. Michael Conaway (R-TX), Rep. Patrick Murphy (D-FL), and Rep. James Renacci (R-OH). A summary of the DATA Act can be read here, and the legislation can be accessed here.
04.10.2014	House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., today released the following statement on the resignation of Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius: “Kathleen Sebelius had a supremely difficult job implementing a law as unpopular and unwieldy as ObamaCare. Her tenure as the head of the Department of Health and Human Services may be at an end, but Americans will be dealing with the repercussions of the president’s health law for a very long time.”
04.01.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., released the following statement on the Republican budget proposal released by House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan, R-Wisc.: “The budget proposal takes smart, sensible steps to restrain the growth of government, reduce rampant waste, and balance the budget over the next 10 years. I applaud Chairman Ryan for tackling some of the toughest spending problems in our federal government today, and for including many proposals championed by the Oversight Committee. For instance, the budget proposal would provide for appropriate cost-cutting reforms that will allow the U.S. Postal Service to save $19 billion over ten years. The budget modernizes the federal workforce by using attrition to reduce the number of hired new workers and bringing federal employee pensions closer in line to what private sector workers receive. “This is the right approach: prioritizing common sense measures to reign in the out of control spending that our country can no longer afford.”
03.26.2014	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, U.S. Representatives Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Mike Quigley (D-IL) hosted a Congressional Transparency Caucus briefing on the need to promote open government data to enhance government transparency and fuel economic growth and job creation. “It’s time to utilize today’s technology to pull our government out the past and modernize public access to information. Making government data available online and in a standard, easy to use format will promote much-needed government transparency, and will allow entrepreneurs to build innovative new products and services that create 21st century jobs,” said Rep. Quigley. Last year, the House of Representatives adopted H.R. 2061, the Digital Accountability and Transparency Act (DATA Act) on a vote of 388-1. Sponsored by Rep. Issa and co-sponsored by Rep. Quigley, the DATA Act will make federal spending data publically available and easily accessible and will create more useful government-wide financial data standards. “Only by opening up government spending data can we see exactly what our government is doing with our money. No other data set is as central to government management and transparency. At the same time, making all federal spending information useful by publishing it in a machine readable format can boost economic growth and create jobs. Companies will be able to analyze government data against other data sets, allowing them to add value and sell their services to a wide variety of businesses,” said Rep. Issa. Reps. Issa and Quigley are co-founders and co-chairs of the bipartisan Congressional Transparency Caucus, which seeks to enact legislation that will bring openness and accessibility to the federal government. Previously, the Transparency Caucus hosted a briefing on the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).
03.18.2014	WASHINGTON – House Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) today responded to the Department of Defense’s reports on the security clearance process. The DOD reports, ordered in the wake of the Navy Yard shooting, demonstrate that Aaron Alexis held a security clearance despite a background full of red flags that should have been spotted in the clearance process. “The Department of Defense reports released this morning concur with the findings of the Committee’s Staff Report released on February 11, 2014,” said Chairman Issa. “The Department and the Committee both concluded that Aaron Alexis could have been stopped and his clearance could have been pulled before the Navy Yard shooting if all information available was properly obtained and reported. Additionally, the Department recognizes that the federal security clearance process must be fixed and agrees with the Committee’s recommendations: continuous evaluation must be implemented; more data is needed for investigations to be complete, including utilizing social media and other Internet sources; and local law enforcement agencies must comply with existing federal law by providing relevant criminal history information to investigators. “It is imperative that we fix these glaring problems before another tragedy occurs. The Committee remains committed to addressing the flaws in the process promptly.” Read the report here. Watch the February 11th hearing here.
03.13.2014	Washington, D.C. – By a vote of 233-181, the House of Representatives today approved the Executive Needs to Faithfully Observe and Respect Congressional Enactments of the Law (ENFORCE the Law) Act (H.R. 4138), a carefully crafted bill to rein in the growing problem of executive overreach and restore balance to the separation of powers enshrined in our Constitution. The ENFORCE the Law Act, introduced by Representatives Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), and Representative Jim Gerlach (R-Pa.), puts a procedure in place to permit the House, or the Senate, to authorize a lawsuit against the Executive Branch for failure to faithfully execute the laws. Read Congressman Issa's Statement and the Committee's Full Press Release The legislation also provides for expedited consideration of any such lawsuit, first through a three-judge panel at the federal district court level and then by providing for direct appeal to the United States Supreme Court. The ENFORCE the Law Act is crucial to ensuring that when a lawsuit is brought against the Administration to enforce our laws, the courts not only grant Congress standing, but also hear the case on an expedited timeline to prevent the President from stalling the litigation until his or her term is up. In addition, to overcome past procedural hurdles, the bill statutorily prevents the courts from using court-created procedural principles as an excuse to avoid making decisions in these important separation of powers cases. A full summary of the bill can be found here. Congressman Gowdy – chief sponsor of the bill – Chairman Goodlatte, Congressman Issa, and Congressman Gerlach applauded House passage of the ENFORCE the Law Act in the statements below. Rep. Gowdy: “The Constitution gives Congress the responsibility to write the laws and the Executive to enforce them. We don’t pass suggestions. We don’t pass ideas. We pass laws. Regardless of our politics, I hope my colleagues have enough regard for our work to expect those laws would be faithfully executed. “The ENFORCE the Law Act is necessary. It gives Congress the ability to remedy executive overreach—not just react to it or punish it. Our Framers designed a system of three coequal branches. As Senator, President Obama repeatedly warned of the dangers of the executive branch. This bill would allow us to defend the legislative branch as the Framers and our fellow citizens expect.” Chairman Goodlatte: “The separation of powers is the most fundamental element in our system of government and is designed to protect individual liberty and the rule of law. The Constitution clearly states that it’s Congress’ role to write our laws and it’s the President’s duty to enforce them. However, President Obama has failed on multiple occasions to enforce laws that he disagrees with for policy reasons and has also stretched his regulatory authority to put in place policies Congress has refused to pass. President Obama routinely legislates through press releases and letters rather than work with Americans’ elected representatives in Congress. “With an unrestrained Executive Branch that knows no limits, it is ultimately up to the Congress and the courts to check the President’s overreach and restore balance to our system of government. Today’s passage of the ENFORCE the Law Act takes us one step closer to preventing the President from legislating through executive decrees by allowing Congress to challenge executive overreach in the courts and expediting judicial review of those challenges. Preventing executive overreach is not about partisan politics—it is about preserving our system of government and safeguarding our liberties for the generations to come. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to put aside politics and party and carefully consider the dangers of an unchecked Executive Branch.” Rep. Issa: “President Obama has established a disturbing pattern of cherry picking the laws he wishes to enforce. The House acted decisively today, to bring accountability back to the Oval Office by allowing Congress to authorize lawsuits against the Executive Branch when they fail to uphold our nation’s laws. The Constitution charges the President with the responsibility to faithfully execute all the laws and not just the ones he supports. The Executive Branch has grown so bloated and convoluted that it now comfortably abuses its power knowing that the complexity of its actions and judicial procedure will effectively allow it to circumvent the other two branches of our government. We must restore a working system of checks and balances that ensures the government’s actions are judged on constitutional merits rather than bypassed or delayed based on the political whims of the President and his appointees. This legislation provides the simple expedited procedure that lawmakers and the American people need to hold their federal government accountable.” Rep. Gerlach: “This legislation is necessary because of a series of unilateral actions the President has taken in recent years to selectively apply, enforce, and even ignore duly-enacted laws passed. Our system of checks and balances was designed to prevent a president – or any one branch of the federal government – from being able to unilaterally declare a law means whatever that individual wants it to mean. That’s why I'm pleased the House acted today to restore and preserve the delicate constitutional balance among the three branches of our federal system and take an important step in restoring the public's overall confidence in our system of governance.” ###
02.28.2014	WASHINGTON – Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement on House passage of H.R. 899, the Unfunded Mandates Information and Transparency Act and H.R. 2804, the Achieving Less Excess in Regulation and Requiring Transparency (ALERRT) Act of 2014: “Transparency and accountability will go a long way to addressing this Administration’s runaway expansion of the regulatory state,” Issa said. “These reforms bring job-killing federal mandates out of the dark by giving the public ample time to see and prepare for their real costs and economic impact. The reforms of Stop Government Abuse Week are a step in the right direction toward creating an open rulemaking process and undoing the economic damage of the federal government’s excessive bureaucratic regulation. The American people deserve no less.” The House today adopted H.R. 899, the Unfunded Mandates Information and Transparency Act on a vote of 234-176. Sponsored by Rep. Virginia Foxx (R-NC) and Rep James Lankford (R-OK) and reported out of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee last month, this bill will enhance transparency, accountability, and awareness of federal mandates placed on state and local governments, tribes and private sector entities. It will close loopholes in current law and requires better cost estimates of proposed mandates. H.R. 899 also allows for judicial review of an important part of agency analysis – whether or not the chosen regulation was the least costly, least burdensome regulatory alternative. Yesterday, the House passed H.R. 2804, the Achieving Less Excess in Regulation and Requiring Transparency (ALERRT) Act of 2014 on a vote of 236-179. The version passed by the House included legislation recently reported out of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. Sponsored by Rep. George Holding (R-NC), the bill requires each federal agency to submit monthly updates to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) on rules the agency plans to propose or finalize during the following year. For rules that have been noticed, the update must include information on cost and economic impact. H.R. 2804 also requires OIRA to publish two annual assessments of regulatory activity. During “Stop Government Abuse Week,” the House adopted six transparency-related bills reported out of the House Oversight Committee: H.R. 1211, the FOIA Oversight and Implementation Act of 2014 by a vote of 410-0. Introduced by Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-MD) and reported out of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee last year, H.R. 1211 will enhance the American people’s access to federal government information by improving the responsiveness of federal agencies to FOIA requests. H.R. 1232, the Federal Information Technology Acquisition Reform Act (FITARA) by a voice vote. Introduced by Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-VA), this bill, among other reforms, will improve transparency in federal information technology (IT) procurement by ensuring that a public website, operated by the Office of Management and Budget, will track and grade at least 80-percent of the $80 billion in annual federal IT contracting investments. H.R. 1423, the Taxpayers Right-to-Know Act by a voice vote. Sponsored by Rep. James Lankford (R-OK) and reported out of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, H.R. 1423 will strengthen government accountability by establishing effective reporting requirements for federal agencies on use of taxpayer funds. H.R. 3308, the Taxpayer Transparency Act by a voice vote. Sponsored by Rep. Billy Long (R-MO) and reported out of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, this bill would create truth in federal advertising by requiring federal agencies to include language for advertising materials indicating when they are produced and disseminated at taxpayer expense. H.R. 2804, the Achieving Less Excess in Regulation and Requiring Transparency (ALERRT) Act of 2014 on a vote of 236-179. The version passed by the House included legislation recently reported out of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. Sponsored by Rep. George Holding (R-NC), the bill requires each federal agency to submit monthly updates to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) on rules the agency plans to propose or finalize during the following year. For rules that have been noticed, the update must include information on cost and economic impact. H.R. 2804 also requires OIRA to publish two annual assessments of regulatory activity. H.R. 899, the Unfunded Mandates Information and Transparency Act on a vote of 234-176. Sponsored by Rep. Virginia Foxx (R-NC) and Rep James Lankford (R-OK), this bill will enhance transparency, accountability, and awareness of federal mandates placed on state and local governments, tribes and private sector entities. It will close loopholes in current law and requires better cost estimates of proposed mandates. H.R. 899 also allows for judicial review of an important part of agency analysis – whether or not the chosen regulation was the least costly, least burdensome regulatory alternative. ###
02.05.2014	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement on the House’s passage of H.R. 3964, The Sacramento–San Joaquin Valley Emergency Water Act, which will help alleviate drought conditions across California: “Today, the House of Representatives took measures to ensure that millions of Californians receive access to much needed water during the current drought crisis. By relaxing restrictive water regulations, this Act will increase access to vital water supplies which will save crops and jobs throughout California. I applaud the bill’s author, Rep. David Valadao (CA-21), Rep. Devin Nunes (CA-22), Rep. Kevin McCarthy (CA-23), and the entire California Republican delegation for their work on this crucial measure.” The House approved the bill on a vote of 229 to 191, with Rep. Issa supporting passage. Background: Legislative Text of H.R. 3964 Summary of the bill courtesy of the House Committee on Natural Resources. ###
01.29.2014	WASHINGTON – Today, House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., released the following video statement on President Obama’s State of the Union Address. WATCH CHAIRMAN ISSA’S STATEMENT “Tonight the President laid out his vision to once again bypass Congress to use executive orders to run the country and to legislate from the Oval Office,” Chairman Issa said. “This isn’t the American way, courts have not supported his past attempts, and he only does damage to the American people’s confidence in government when he doesn’t work with Congress to pass real reforms – especially on areas like the NSA and the abuses of the IRS and so on, where his administration has overseen abuses of personal liberties.” Issa continued, “Americans always excel when government respects their rights to liberty and their right to do what they believe is best, to strive to succeed, to fail at times, to get up and strive again. Because the American dream is not about a guarantee, it’s about the guaranteed rights to succeed or fail on our own merits. That’s where job creation comes from, that’s where Americans want to be, and that’s where the President failed to be tonight.” ###
01.27.2014	WASHINGTON. D.C. – A bipartisan group of six House Members today sent a letter to President Barack Obama urging the dismissal of Director of National Intelligence James Clapper and reforms to protect the Internet privacy rights of American citizens from intrusive government surveillance efforts. “Internet Freedom is indispensable, and reports regarding the government’s treatment of encryption protocols underscore the need to provide leadership and clarity beyond the collection of telephone records,” the six Members wrote in a joint letter to President Obama. “We must ensure that loopholes to unwarranted and wholly unjustified collection of data are closed and that our intelligence community has consistent standards to adhere to under the rule of law.” “The continued role of James Clapper as Director of National Intelligence is incompatible with the goal of restoring trust in our security programs and ensuring the highest level of transparency,” added the lawmakers. “Director Clapper continues to hold his position despite lying to Congress, under oath, about the existence of bulk data collection programs in March 2013.” The letter is cosigned by Reps. Darrell Issa, Alan Grayson, Ted Poe, Paul Broun, Doug Collins, and Walter Jones. To read the text of the letter, please click here. ###
01.13.2014	WASHINGTON – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) today made the following statement on the passing of former Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon: "I am saddened by the passing of Ariel Sharon. He was a tough military leader in times of conflict and as prime minister, he was determined and consistent. I first met Sharon in 2001 and I quickly understood the depth of his love for his country. He was instrumental in developing our relationship with Israel and fostered continued diplomatic ties with the US and other nations." ###
12.19.2013	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Today, Representatives Darrell Issa (CA-49), Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-5), Trent Franks (AZ-08), Blake Farenthold (TX-27), Trey Gowdy (SC-04), Raul Labrador (ID-01) and Ted Poe (TX-02) sent a letter to U.S. Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr. urging an investigation of the Director of National Intelligence, James Clapper, for lying to Congress while testifying before the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence in March of 2013. “Director Clapper’s willful lie under oath fuels the unhealthy cynicism and distrust that citizens feel toward their government and undermines Congress’s ability to perform its Constitutional function,” the Members write in their letter to Holder. “There are differences of opinion about the propriety of the NSA’s data collection programs. There can be no disagreement, however, on the basic premise that congressional witnesses must answer truthfully.” “Congressional oversight depends on truthful testimony—witnesses cannot be allowed to lie to Congress. Accordingly, we request you investigate Director of National Intelligence James Clapper’s ‘erroneous’ statements to the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence earlier this year.” At a March 12, 2013 Senate Select Committee on Intelligence hearing, Director Clapper was asked if, “the NSA collected any type of data at all on millions of hundreds of millions of Americans” to which he responded with, “No, Sir.” Four months later, in June 2013, after the Snowden leaks publicly exposed Clapper’s testimony as false, Clapper finally retracted his remarks and wrote, “My response was clearly erroneous, for which I apologize.” To read the text of the letter, please click here. ###
12.05.2013	WASHINGTON. D.C. – On a bipartisan vote of 325-91, today the House of Representatives passed the Innovation Act (H.R. 3309) – a bill originating from the House Judiciary Committee that combats abusive patent litigation. Currently, bad actors known as patent ‘trolls’ target American businesses and file frivolous lawsuits with the sole purpose of extorting settlements. “Abusive patent litigation is a drag on our economy,” said House Judiciary Committee Member Rep. Darrell Issa, who holds 37 patents. “Patent trolls manipulate the system, forcing businesses and entrepreneurs to spend millions of dollars on settlements and litigation expenses instead of using that capital to create new jobs, fund research and development, and create new technologies.” “Today’s passage of the Innovation Act takes a pivotal step towards eliminating abuses and protecting American innovators. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to take immediate action to prevent patent trolls from further targeting businesses and taking money directly out of the pockets of hard-working Americans.” For more information on H.R. 3309, please click here.
12.05.2013	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Today, Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif., issued the following statement on the passing of former South African President Nelson Mandela: “My thoughts and prayers go out to Graça Machel, the Mandela family, and the people of South Africa on the occasion of Nelson Mandela’s passing. Nelson Mandela’s legacy of peaceful reconciliation in the struggle against apartheid lives on to inspire people around the world. We will never forget his incredible capacity to forgive or his advocacy for the cause of freedom and democracy.” ###
12.03.2013	WASHINGTON – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., today made the following statement on the Administration’s announcement of a yearlong delay of online enrollment for small businesses looking to purchase health coverage through federally-run Small Business Health Option Program (SHOP) exchanges: "The White House has issued delay after delay for parts of the law they find inconvenient but the American families and individuals who will bear the brunt of the law have received no such relief. “President Obama needs to get over his bruised ego and join with the bipartisan coalition of House and Senate members who recognize that Americans need protection from the negative effects of ObamaCare. The President should support a suspension in the implementation of the law.” ###
11.15.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., voted in favor of H.R.3350, the Keep Your Health Plan Act. Chairman Issa issued the following statement: “The President has admitted to breaking his repeated promise that ‘if you like your health plan, you can keep it’ and admitted to ‘fumbling’ the ObamaCare rollout. He knows that millions of Americans have been told their health coverage is being cancelled, and he knows that that they cannot log on to the broken exchange website. Yet when faced with mounting bipartisan pressure to protect those losing their health coverage, the President offers nothing more than an administrative gimmick. Today, by passing the Keep Your Health Plan Act, the House has acted to change the law to reduce uncertainty and offer real solutions for individuals and families.” The bill, sponsored by Rep. Fred Upton, R-Mich., passed on a vote of 261-157. This week, Chairman Issa convened the Committee’s first hearing on the technical and security problems with Healthcare.gov and what is being done to fix the troubled website, which featured the Administration’s top IT experts. ###
11.13.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Oversight Committee member Rep. Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) introduced the Support Earned Recognition for Veterans (SERV) Act, H.R. 3469, a bipartisan bill to eliminate abuses in the veterans benefit system and ensure that only individuals who have actually served in the military can qualify to receive government contracting preferences and similar benefits. “Each year, the federal government offers hundreds of millions of dollars of small-businesses contracts to service-disabled veterans so that they can grow their small businesses while providing the government with needed services and goods,” said Rep. Issa. “Those who never actually served our country are not – and should not – be entitled to receive this special status. This loophole must be closed to reduce these egregious abuses and prevent taxpayer dollars from being inappropriately awarded to non-veterans.” “My neighbors sent me to Washington to reach across the aisle and get results,” said Rep. Duckworth. “This is a common-sense solution to a small problem, but a good start so that we can spend taxpayer dollars more effectively and honor our veterans properly.” As the law stands, individuals who attend a military preparatory school but never joined the Armed Forces may claim veteran status. The SERV Act would clarify the definition of “veteran” to exclude such individuals and prevent them from exploiting the system to secure “service-disabled veteran-owned small business” contracting preferences. The SERV Act follows a recent Oversight and Government Reform hearing that examined a flaw in the current veterans benefit system that allowed an IT contractor to secure a “service-disabled veteran” designation and, as a result, receive $500 million in government contracts, despite never having served a day in the military. The SERV Act has 57 original cosponsors. To read the full text of H.R. 3469, please click here. To read a joint article by Reps. Issa and Duckworth, please click here. ###
11.13.2013	WASHINGTON – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., released the following statement on the low ObamaCare enrollment numbers released today. “The 27,000 enrollments through federally facilitated exchange pale in comparison to the millions of Americans who have lost their health insurance under ObamaCare,” Issa stated. “The president promised that if you like your health insurance, you can keep it – period. Not only is that untrue, but this Administration cannot even offer a workable alternative to people once they have lost the insurance they liked. At today’s House Oversight Committee hearing, White House officials could not say whether HealthCare.gov will be operational by the end of the month, nor could they say who was ultimately responsible for the website’s failure. It is time for the president to finally acknowledge ObamaCare isn’t working and to delay the law, in fairness to families and individuals.” Today, Chairman Issa also convened the Committee’s first hearing on the technical problems with HealthCare.gov and what is being done to fix them. At the hearing, White House official Todd Park could not confirm whether the website would be ready by the end of November, as promised. The panel of Administration technology experts, including Chief Information Officer Steven VanRoekel and Henry Chao, one of the top CMS officials tasked with implementing ObamaCare, could not state who was responsible for HealthCare.gov’s rollout. ###
11.01.2013	WASHINGTON – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., today released new HealthCare.gov meeting notes stating that as of 10/2/2013, there were “248 enrollments.” According to meeting notes from the day before, “6 enrollments have occurred so far with 5 different issuers.” The numbers come from notes taken during “War Room” meetings at the Center for Consumer Information and Insurance (CCIIO), part of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) tasked with implementing ObamaCare. The meetings were comprised of Administration officials and contractors discussing the standing issues and problems with the disastrous launch of HealthCare.gov. The first set of notes, taken the morning of October 2nd, states, “6 enrollments have occurred so far with 5 different issuers… Issuers include BCBS NC, BCBS Kansas City, and CareSource. Healthcare Service Corporation had the 2 enrollments.” At the next meeting held the afternoon of October 2nd, the notes add that “[a]pproximately 100 enrollments have happened as of this meeting.” At the morning meeting held October 3rd, the notes say that “[as] of yesterday, there were 248 enrollments.” The Administration so far has not provided any official number of individuals who successfully enrolled in insurance plans through HealthCare.gov. The documents released today were produced in response to a Committee request sent to 11 of the top contractors involved in the HealthCare.gov roll out. Chairman Issa also today subpoenaed HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius for documents related to HealthCare.gov, including the number of attempted and completed enrollments. You can see the documents released today here: CCIIO-Wide War Room Meeting cite for 10.2.13 AM CCIIO-Wide War Room Meeting cite for 10.2.13 PM CCIIO-Wide War Room Meeting cite for 10.3.13 AM
10.30.2013	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Representative Darrell Issa (CA-49) continued his efforts to protect Americans’ privacy rights by becoming a leading cosponsor of H.R. 3361, the USA FREEDOM (Uniting and Strengthening America by Fulfilling Rights and Ending Eavesdropping, Dragnet Collection, and Online Monitoring) Act - a bipartisan, bicameral bill to end the bulk collection of Americans’ communications records under the USA PATRIOT Act and reform the process through which the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court issues warrants. “We now know that the NSA and other intelligence agency officials have misled the Congress and the American people and that their actions are far more invasive with respect to communications of Americans than were previously known,” said Rep. Issa. “Congress has a duty to conduct vigorous oversight – especially when the civil liberties of American citizens are in jeopardy. This legislation builds on my past efforts to hold the Administration accountable for outright violations of individual privacy rights and to increase transparency of the NSA’s surveillance programs.” Key Components of the USA FREEDOM Act: Ends the bulk metadata collection: Intelligence agencies will now be required to show a Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) judge that they are seeking communications records relevant to either an agent of a foreign power who is the subject of a terrorism investigation or someone with a link to that agent. The bill will also require the government to more aggressively filter and discard information about Americans accidentally collected through surveillance programs. Reforms the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC): The bill creates new and more robust reporting requirements to ensure that Congress and the American people are aware of actions by the FISC and intelligence community as a whole. Increases transparency: The FISC will be required to publically explain and disclose all FISC decisions issued after July 10, 2003 that contain a significant construction or interpretation of the law. Public companies will now be permitted to report an estimate of the number of FISA orders and national security letters received and complied with – and the number of users or accounts that were subject to FISA orders. To read the text of the bill, please click here. ###
10.24.2013	WASHINGTON- House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., today announced legislation, H.R. 3319, the Equal Healthcare Access Act, that would allow all Americans to enroll in the Federal Employees Health Benefit Program (FEHBP). Rep. Mick Mulvaney, R-SC, and Rep. Wm. Lacy Clay, D-Mo., are original cosponsors. “The Equal Healthcare Access Act offers Americans access to the same health insurance plans long enjoyed by Members of Congress and their families,” said Chairman Issa. “This is a free market approach to healthcare with government playing the very limited role of helping small businesses and individuals come together to get a better price for healthcare – much like larger businesses can already negotiate on their own.” Information about what plans are available under FEHBP can be found at the Office of Personnel Management’s website: https://www.opm.gov/healthcare-insurance/healthcare/plan-information/compare-plans/ “The American people should have as easy a consumer experience as federal employees do,” Issa continued. “People can visit the OPM’s website to see how easy it would be for Americans to compare health insurance prices under this system.” This practical plan addresses key healthcare challenges by: Nationwide Coverage. Americans would have the ability to purchase coverage as a member of this group plan. Individuals could choose from among the more than 230 plan choices participating in the FEHBP. Improving Access & Choice. Nearly 99 percent of physicians already accept FEHBP plans, allowing all Americans to find a doctor that is convenient for them and almost all Americans to keep seeing the doctors they see now. Providing Affordable Options. The FEHBP uses market competition and consumer choice to provide $45 billion annually in health care benefits at an affordable cost. Individuals pay the same rate, regardless of pre-existing conditions, age or health status. Expanding access to the benefit will foster greater competition among insurance providers for price and quality. Expanding Consumer Choice. In 2014, federal workers will have access to 256 plans through FEHBP nationwide, up 10 percent in 2013. The plans include HMOs, PPOs, consumer driven healthcare plans and more. They range in cost and coverage, allowing consumers to select a plan which is right for them. Most major insurance providers currently participate in FEHBP. Enhancing Quality-of-Care. The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) would continue to ensure the solvency of the plans, enforce reasonable standards for care, and protect enrollees. Making Prices Easier to Compare. Participants will have a clear picture of their out of pocket costs, and their exposure will be capped at reasonable rates. Helping Job Creators. Private sector employers could subsidize premium costs for their employees allowing them to buy plans, unlike the state-based exchanges established under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Keeping Administrative Costs Low. To fund the administration of FEHBP, OPM adds a charge to each premium not to exceed 1 percent to cover administrative costs. The system currently uses 200 employees to facilitate a private market that today serves 8 million civil servants, retired employees and family members. You can view a copy of the H.R. 3319 here. Chairman Issa has also posted an editable version of the legislation here to solicit public input. ###
10.21.2013	WASHINGTON: Representative Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement today on the passing of Florida Representative C.W. “Bill” Young: “I am saddened to learn of the passing of my colleague, Bill Young. While many will rightly recognize his extraordinary 43 year tenure in the House of Representatives, it was Bill’s passion and work on behalf of our veterans that are his hallmark. He and Beverly often traveled from Capitol Hill to Walter Reed and Bethesda to visit with Service members recovering from injuries. He wanted to let them know how much their service meant to our nation and to make sure we were living up to our commitments. Bill also championed the work of the Armed Forces Foundation, which through the C.W. “Bill” and Beverly Young Financial Assistance Fund, provides assistance to Service members suffering a financial hardship through injury or other service related situation. “Bill set a fine example for all of us over his four decades in Congress. He will be missed. Our thoughts and prayers are with Beverly and the Young Family as they mourn his passing.” ###
10.10.2013	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista) today recognized Chris Cox in the Congressional Record for his selfless act of national service amidst the ongoing budget impasse. Cox, a resident of South Carolina, traveled to Washington, D.C. on a one-man mission to maintain the grounds for visitors to the National Mall as our national monuments and museums remain closed and National Park Service employees normally tasked with keeping the Mall clean remained furloughed. “As some of our leaders in Washington, D.C. are unwilling to negotiate with members of the opposite political party to devise a solution to re-open the federal government – something the American people want and deserve – Cox took it upon himself to ensure the lawn of the iconic Lincoln Memorial was mowed and kept tidy for the thousands of veterans who will descend on our nation’s capital this weekend for the Million Vet March,” said Rep. Issa in the Congressional Record. “I had the pleasure of meeting Mr. Cox just this weekend when riding my bike around the monuments – surveying how the shutdown has impacted our National Mall. Cox expressed his sincerest hope that he would be able to clean the area around the Lincoln Memorial to the World War II Memorial because our veterans dedicated their lives and fought for us so we should fight and honor them, even if the government is shutdown.” “This is the American spirit. This is the attitude and perseverance our Founding Fathers demonstrated in the face of adversity. Patriotic acts, like the ones recently displayed by Cox, serve as a great reminder of how Washington should conduct itself in this frustrating time.” To read Rep. Issa’s full statement for the Congressional Record, please click here. To view the interview Rep. Issa conducted himself with Chris Cox, please click here. ###
10.01.2013	WASHINGTON- House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., issued the following statement on the problems surrounding today’s launch of Obamacare’s health exchanges: “Today, across the country, Americans are attempting to purchase health insurance on Obamacare exchanges and are being met with crashing websites, missing price information, confusing forms and in some cases, exchanges that had to delay their start date because they aren’t ready yet. These ‘glitches,’ which the President is trying to brush off, reveal how totally unprepared the government is for this launch even with three and a half years to prepare. This is nothing, however, compared to the potentially irreversible damage the law threatens in the long term: skyrocketing premiums for families, more out-of-pocket costs, less choice and fewer plans and an unprecedented burden placed on small businesses and job creators. The American people deserve better than this trainwreck of a law, whose own champions have resorted to tamping down expectations while refusing to consider alternatives. “Now that Obamacare’s implementation has begun, more and more of the American people will turn to Congress looking for practical health solutions the bill does not deliver. The President and his allies in Congress owe it to the American people to stop blaming ‘glitches’ for the real problems with the current law, and join us to provide alternatives that work.” Last month, the Committee released a staff report which found the Navigators and Assisters programs designed to enroll Americans in Obamacare pose huge risks for fraud, identity theft and lack proper safeguard to protect sensitive, personal information. You can read the full report here. ###
09.26.2013	WASHINGTON- House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., issued the following statement in response to reports that the Administration will delay online enrollment for small-business exchanges. “While President Obama was busy telling Americans that an increasingly unpopular law is ‘here to stay,’ ‘sources’ from his Administration were telling reporters that there would be yet another delay, this one denying small businesses the ability to enroll online through insurance exchanges. We already know that Obamacare is expensive, confusing, and raising health insurance costs for ordinary Americans. It is obvious that the Administration is just as unprepared for Obamacare’s October 1st start date as the rest of the country. So far the White House has issued delay after delay for parts of the law they find inconvenient, however, American families and individuals who will bear the brunt of the law have gotten no such relief.” The Oversight Committee issued a staff report which found the Navigators and Assisters programs designed to enroll Americans in Obamacare pose huge risks for fraud, identity theft and lack proper safeguard to protect sensitive, personal information. You can read the full report here. ###
09.23.2013	WASHINGTON- House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) issued the following statement on Lois Lerner’s departure from the IRS: “Lois Lerner’s exit from the IRS does not alter the Oversight Committee’s interest in understanding why applicants for tax exempt status were targeted and inappropriately treated because of their political beliefs. We still don’t know why Lois Lerner, as a senior IRS official, had such a personal interest in directing scrutiny and why she denied improper conduct to Congress. Her departure does not answer these questions or diminish the Committee’s interest in hearing her testimony.�? In June, the Committee adopted a resolution determining that Lerner waived her 5th amendment rights when at a May 22, 2013 hearing she offered testimony and answered questions. Last week, the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee circulated a memo to Members offering an interim update on the status of its investigation. ###
09.16.2013	WASHINGTON – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) today, as part of the ongoing investigation into the Benghazi terrorist attacks, released an interim report focused on the conclusions of the State Department Accountability Review Board (ARB). The ARB had placed blame on mid-level officials but did not examine the role of more senior officials involved in security decisions. Relying on documents and testimony of State Department officials, the report describes the concerns and shortcomings of an investigation that Administration officials have incorrectly described as independent and exhaustive. “The ARB was not fully independent,” said Chairman Issa on releasing the report. “The panel did not exhaustively examine failures and it has led to an unacceptable lack of accountability. While Ambassador Pickering and Admiral Mullen have honorably served their country, the families of victims and the American people continue to wait for more conclusive answers about how our government left our own personnel so vulnerable and alone the night of the attack.” Key Findings: The ARB was not comprehensive: Obama Administration officials held out the ARB Report as the product of a full and complete investigation. Even the ARB co-chairs, however, acknowledged that the report was limited by the Board’s statutory mandate. [16-18] The ARB did not conduct thorough interviews: One of the two bureaus the ARB criticized was the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs (NEA). Elizabeth Dibble, NEA’s second-in-command, appeared before the ARB only once – in a 90-minute group interview. The Committee obtained documents that showed Dibble was involved in numerous discussions about the U.S. presence in Benghazi and security resources deployed in Libya. It is unclear that a 90-minute group interview was sufficient for the ARB to determine the extent of her role. [20] The State Department obstructed the congressional investigation: The State Department’s refusal to turn over ARB documents has made an independent evaluation of the ARB’s review difficult. The ARB did not record or transcribe the interviews it conducted. The State Department is withholding interview summaries created by ARB staff. [21-22] The ARB may have been affected by conflicts of interest: The independence of the ARB is tainted by actual and perceived conflicts of interest. Witnesses testified that Senior State Department officials who were involved in discussions about Benghazi security were responsible for the process of selecting Board members and staff. The ARB staff consisted of State Department employees who subsequently returned to their posts. Witnesses also testified that in many instances, Board members and staff had prior connections to the officials they evaluated. [23-29] The ARB downplayed the decision to run the Benghazi facility as a temporary mission: The ARB failed to adequately examine or explain the State Department's decision to run the Benghazi mission on a temporary basis. None of the four individuals the ARB singled out for “accountability” made this decision. [30-44] Witnesses testified that this decision was largely responsible for the inadequate security posture at the Benghazi mission. Decisions at more senior State Department levels influenced diplomatic security actions: Diplomatic Security Bureau officials testified that the decision by Undersecretary for Management Patrick Kennedy to approve a continued U.S. presence that exempted the mission site from security requirements restricted their ability to assign security agents. Officials testified that because Benghazi was not designated as a permanent mission, they had to rely mainly on temporary assignments to address security needs instead of assigning dedicated agents through the normal process. [34] Diplomatic Security officials testified that they did raise concerns about the problems this process created to more senior State Department officials in the months prior to the attack. [35] Secretary Clinton also wanted to extend the mission in Benghazi. Several NEA officials recalled the Secretary’s desire to continue operating the Benghazi mission in September 2011, when the Department was discussing what to do with the Benghazi special mission compound in the wake of the reopening of the U.S. Embassy in Tripoli. [66-67] Chairman Issa also announced that today, consistent with committee rules, the Committee will post the full transcripts of the interviews with ARB co-chairs Ambassador Thomas Pickering and Admiral Michael Mullen. Read the full report here. ###
09.11.2013	WASHINGTON – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., today released the following statement commemorating the one year anniversary of the September 11, 2012 terror attacks in Benghazi and announcing a hearing with the Accountability Review Board co-chairs next Thursday, September 19th at 9:30 a.m. “One year ago, four Americans were killed in a vicious and planned attack on the U.S. diplomatic compound in Benghazi. Today, we remember Ambassador Christopher Stevens, Sean Smith, Glen Doherty, and Tyrone S. Woods, who served their country honorably and died protecting it. We also remember their families and colleagues, who will always keenly feel their loss,” Chairman Issa stated. “The attack in Benghazi was a painful reminder that even a decade after September 11th there are still those who wish us harm, who would destroy our way of life and who are actively planning the next assault. The only way we can truly protect the lives of Americans at home and abroad is to be honest about the ongoing threats we face and tireless in our response to them. Yet in the year since Benghazi, we have seen a total lack of accountability from this Administration and many important questions have still not been answered. We still do not know who was in charge and making decisions the night of the attack nor do we know who was responsible for policy decisions that set a course seeking a smaller U.S. security presence in a dangerous environment. “From denying the Committee access to survivors of the attack to refusing to turn over key documents, the Administration’s continual reluctance to cooperate with our investigation is flatly unacceptable. Next week I will convene a hearing to receive testimony from the State Department’s Accountability Review Board co-chairs, members of the Department’s security panel that conducted a review, and family members who lost loved-ones in the attacks. Considering that the State Department’s ‘accountability’ review board has yielded no disciplinary action, none of the terrorists have been brought to justice, and we still don’t have key answers about what happened before, during and after the attack, Benghazi remains an important and unresolved matter.” Hearing Details: “Reviews of the Benghazi Attacks and Unanswered Questions” Full Committee, Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) 9:30 am. In 2154 Rayburn House Office Building Witnesses: Ambassador Thomas R. Pickering Chairman, Benghazi Accountability Review Board Admiral Michael G. Mullen, USN (Ret.) Vice-Chairman, Benghazi Accountability Review Board Mark J. Sullivan Chairman, Independent Panel on Best Practices Former Director, United States Secret Service Todd Keil Member, Independent Panel on Best Practices Former Asst. Secretary for Infrastructure Protection U.S. Department of Homeland Security Family members of Americans lost in the Benghazi attack ###
08.30.2013	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (CA-49) will be holding a ribbon cutting ceremony Tuesday, September 3rd at 3:30 p.m. for the opening of a new district office in Dana Point. The Dana Point office will serve as a convenient option for Orange County residents in the 49th District to receive the assistance of Rep. Issa and his staff. The office will be open on Tuesdays and Fridays from 9:00 – 5:00 p.m. PST and by appointment for other days. Constituents will be able to receive all services provided in Rep. Issa’s Vista office including meetings and casework services with federal agencies, such as Veterans Affairs claims. The City of Dana Point made one of their city office suites available for Rep. Issa and the constituents of the 49th District. The office will be decorated with photos of the district submitted by constituents through a Facebook photo contest and photos of Wounded Warriors from the F-Stop Warrior Project. WHO: Rep. Darrell Issa (CA-49) WHAT: Ribbon cutting ceremony for the opening of new Dana Point office WHEN: Tuesday, September 3rd at 3:30 PST WHERE: 33282 Golden Lantern, Suite 102, Dana Point 92629 Please contact Danielle Adams at 202.225.3906 for further information.
08.20.2013	WASHINGTON –House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) issued the following statement on Secretary of State John Kerry’s decision to take four State Department officials, faulted in connection with the Benghazi terrorist attack, off paid administrative leave and not to pursue any disciplinary action, for any officials, in connection with security failures surround the Benghazi attacks. “Obama administration officials repeatedly promised the families of victims and the American people that officials responsible for security failures would be held accountable. Instead of accountability, the State Department offered a charade that included false reports of firings and resignations and now ends in a game of musical chairs where no one misses a single day on the State Department payroll. It is now clear that the personnel actions taken by the Department in response to the Benghazi terrorist attacks was more of a public relations strategy than a measured response to a failure in leadership. “In the course of our investigation, the Oversight Committee learned that the State Department’s review of these four individuals did not include interviews with them or their supervisors to either substantiate or challenge allegations. The Oversight Committee will expand its investigation of the Benghazi terrorist attack to include how a supposed ‘Accountability Review Board’ investigation resulted in a decision by Secretary Kerry not to pursue any accountability from anyone.” On July 31, Chairman Issa wrote to the State Department asking why Secretary Kerry had still not made determinations for the four State Department officials placed on paid leave. In its August 8 response, the State Department confirmed that administrative leave was not a punishment and that Secretary Kerry would be personally briefed before making any decisions on the status of the four employees. ###
07.30.2013	WASHINGTON D.C. - In response to today’s announcement from House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) and Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-VA) that the U.S. House of Representatives would make the entire United States Code available for download in extensible markup language or (XML), House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) issued the following statement: “Opening the entire US Code in bulk XML format is a critical advancement in open government. By broadening access to public, government data we give civic engineers and developers the ability to create new, innovative ways of sharing this information with the American people. “The Republican-led House has set a new standard in open government. From live streaming hearings and making all legislation available for download in XML format, to coming up with innovative new ideas for engaging constituents online, Republicans have worked hard to secure a more open, transparent and engaged Congress. According to a release from Speaker Boehner and Leader Cantor: “The data is compiled, updated, and published by the Office of Law Revision Counsel (OLRC)… The XML version of the U.S. Code will be updated quickly, on an ongoing basis, as new laws are enacted.” You can download individual titles – or the full code in bulk – and read supporting documentation here. On May 22, 2013, the Oversight Committee approved the bipartisan DATA Act, a bill which would make federal spending data publicly available and easily accessible. Click here to learn more about open government projects currently underway in the House.
07.22.2013	Washington, D.C. – Reps. Darrell Issa (CA-49) and Judy Chu (CA-27) today introduced bipartisan legislation which provides patent holders tools to fight against patent assertion entities (PAE) and patent trolls in order to encourage American innovation and growth. The STOP Act (H.R. 2766) makes improvements to the Transitional Business Method Program by broadening the definition beyond “a financial product” to include “an enterprise” or “a product.” This change will allow the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the extent of the validity of a number of patents, particularly those related to software and computers, where litigation abuse has run rampant. “Right now, patent trolls are manipulating the overly broad and poorly determined patent definition to win settlements and damages from tens of thousands of real American innovators,” said Rep. Issa. “As a patent holder, I know how harmful and expensive these aggressive litigation tactics are for American entrepreneurs. Instead of spending money on new hires or technology, innovators are faced with millions of dollars in legal fees to resolve these baseless lawsuits. The STOP Act provides tools for legitimate patent holders to put an end to the abuse.” “Patent trolls are a drain on our national productivity and economic output. Their manipulation of our patent system threatens the ability for businesses to create jobs, and encroaches on the right of the public to consume legally purchased goods and services,” said Rep. Chu. “The STOP Act will deter abuse and arm smaller entities with the support they need to fight back.” The STOP Act tracks closely with Senate legislation introduced by Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-NY). ###
07.22.2013	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement on the passing of longtime White House reporter Helen Thomas: “I am deeply saddened by the passing of Helen Thomas. She pursued her craft, and the many Presidents she covered as a journalist, with tenacity and humor. “Helen was never afraid to ask a pointed question, and the American people appreciated her direct and persistent inquiries, even when her subjects did not. She held our leaders accountable at some of our nation’s most challenging times, and we are better off for it. The daughter of Lebanese immigrants, Helen’s many achievements were a source of pride for the Lebanese American community. She will be dearly missed.” ###
07.18.2013	WASHINGTON – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) today released the following statement on the House’s passage of two bills that will delay Obamacare’s individual mandate for American individuals and families for one year. “If President Obama wants to delay the employer mandate, it is only right that the change be codified by Congress and the same relief be extended to American families and individuals who are going to bear the brunt of the burden under the individual mandate,” Issa said. “If the president really wanted to mitigate the negative impact the law will have on job creation and employers, he would stop resorting to extralegal maneuvering and unilateral decision making and instead work with the House to find a solution for all Americans.” Today, the Committee held a joint subcommittee hearing on Obamacare’s centralized data hub, through which federal agencies will share individuals’ personally identifiable information to verify their eligibility for premium tax credits and health insurance. Alan Duncan, an auditor with the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, told the Committee that a lack of adequate testing of the unprecedented program “could result in significant delays and errors.” ###
07.03.2013	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement in response to the removal of the President of Egypt from office: “While popularly elected, President Morsi’s government curtailed freedom of religion and equal rights for the Egyptian people as the country’s economy fell into a drawn out period of stagnation. Real democracy is about more than just one election – it requires a framework of justice and respect for the rights of all. Unfortunately, U.S. policy toward Egypt did too little to promote true democracy and avoid the necessity of the events that have taken place. The people of Egypt and institutions, including the Egyptian military, historically have been friends and allies to the United States. Our country must support the aspirations of the Egyptian people for a democratic government that respects the rights of all citizens.” ###
07.03.2013	WASHINGTON – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., offered the following statement in response to the Obama Administration’s announcement that it would postpone for one year the requirement that businesses cover their workers under Obamacare: “The House has repeatedly voted to repeal Obamacare because it will not work and is bad public policy. The President has delayed a critical component of the Affordable Care Act because it is absolutely unaffordable for American job creators and workers. It is unclear that he has the authority to do this without Congress. This is another in a string of extra legal actions taken by his Administration to mask the horrible impact his law will have on the economy and health care in the United States.” The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee has held several hearings and last Congress issued a report outlining the harmful effects Obamacare will have on job creation and employment.
06.28.2013	WASHINGTON. D.C. – The House Judiciary Committee last night approved the Supplying Knowledge Based Immigrants and Lifting Levels of STEM Visa Act (H.R. 2131), also known as the SKILLS Visa Act in a vote of 20-14. This bill provides American employers with access to the world’s best talent by allocating green cards to foreign graduates of U.S. universities with advanced degrees in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) fields, increasing H-1B visas and repealing the employment-based per-country cap. “The Committee’s approval of the SKILLS Visa Act furthers an effort to ensure that immigration reform benefits our economy and the creation of American jobs,” said Rep. Darrell Issa (CA-49), chief sponsor of the SKILLS Visa Act. “America is already home to many of the world’s best and brightest individuals. The SKILLS Visa Act is a win-win for the United States. It allows immigrants who graduate from American universities with advanced degrees in STEM fields to remain here and use their talents to make this country a better place. It also helps to provide workers in many highly-skilled technical areas where our nation is currently experiencing shortages. This bill will help to grow our economy and help us to retain the best and brightest individuals.” The bill is supported by the Consumer Electronics Association (CEA), Compete America, inSPIRE STEM USA, the Internet Association, and the Information Technology Industry Council. Key Components of the SKILLS Visa Act: Increases Green Cards for STEM Grads: The SKILLS Visa Act allocates up to 55,000 green cards a year for employers to petition for foreign graduates of U.S. universities with advanced degrees in STEM fields. Increases and Strengthens H-1B Visa Program: The SKILLS Visa Act increases the H-1B visa cap for high-skilled workers to 155,000 and increases the special pool of visas for foreign graduates of U.S. universities to 40,000. The bill contains enhanced anti-fraud provisions and allows H-1B spouses to work. Market-Based Approach to Protect American Workers: The bill improves the prevailing wage calculation to better protect American workers and extends the prevailing wage protection to similar visa programs. Provides Entrepreneur Visas: The bill allocates up to 10,000 green cards a year for alien entrepreneurs who can attract investment from venture-capital firms to establish businesses that will create at least five jobs or have already created five jobs over 10 years through the E-2 treaty investor program. Strengthens Investor Visa Program: The bill strengthens the investor visa green card program by making the regional center pilot project permanent, indexing investment requirements for inflation, and adding anti-fraud protections. Eliminates Arbitrary Caps: The bill eliminates the employment-based green card per-country cap, allowing American employers to have access to the best talent. Keeps Families Together: The bill allocates an additional 25,000 green cards a year to the spouses and minor children of permanent residents. It also raises the family-sponsored per-country cap. Makes Immigration System Smarter: The bill repeals the diversity lottery green card program, which is a magnet for fraud and poses a national security threat. More information about the bill can be found by visiting http://issa.house.gov/skills/ ###
06.07.2013	WASHINGTON – Today Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement in response to the announced closing of the San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station, located in California’s 49th District. “The permanent closing of the San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station is a loss for our community. SONGS provided 1.4 million southern Californians with safe, reliable and clean energy. Because efforts to restore operation of the plant were not successful, our communities now face the loss of employment for more than a thousand highly skilled workers and an essential local source of low-cost, clean energy. “Southern Californians are especially vulnerable to failure of our power grid, risking the health and safety of our communities. As we face a future without SONGS, I am committed to working with government and industry leaders to build long-term plans to preserve and strengthen grid reliability. “Moving forward, my office will be ready to provide the assistance to SONGS employees and remain engaged with community leaders and regulatory officials throughout the decommissioning process. I am also committed to working with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to determine ways we can make our regulatory procedures more efficient, so that nuclear power can continue to be a valuable source of clean, affordable energy across the country.” ###
05.31.2013	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Today, Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) announced Sarah Nicita, a sophomore at Francis Parker School, as the winner of the 2013 Congressional Art Competition. The 49th Congressional District winning piece of art entitled, “Double-Take,” is an acrylic diptych consisting of two portraits of a young girl. “Double-Take” by 49th Congressional Art Competition Winner Sarah Nicita, a sophomore at Francis Parker School in San Diego. “Since my first term in Congress, my office has participated in the Congressional Art Competition to foster talent and creativity in high schools throughout the community,” said Rep. Issa. “The winning artists from each Congressional District will have their artwork on display in the U.S. Capitol to be seen by thousands of visitors each day. The year-long display is a reminder of the enthusiasm and creative ability of high school students across the country.” “I have always loved to express myself through art,” Sarah Nicita said after being named the winner of the 2013 Art Competition. “I feel honored and privileged to be named Congressman Issa’s 2013 Congressional Art Competition winner. I am very grateful for the amazing opportunity of having my art displayed in the nation’s Capitol.” An independent panel of 49th District residents judged the student submissions. The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students in the 49th District. Winners are presented with two round trip tickets to Washington, D.C. to visit the nation’s capital and attend an exclusive reception inside the U.S. Capitol honoring the country’s winners. For more information about the Congressional Art Competition and other opportunities for students through Congressman Issa’s Office, visit www.issa.house.gov. ###
05.23.2013	Washington, D.C. – House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today joined Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) in introducing a bill to spur job creation, economic growth, and American competitiveness by increasing and improving high-skilled immigration programs. The Supplying Knowledge Based Immigrants and Lifting Levels of STEM Visas Act (H.R. 2131), also known as the SKILLS Visa Act, provides American employers with access to the world’s best talent by allocating green cards to foreign graduates of U.S. universities with advanced degrees in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) fields, increasing H-1B visas, and repealing the employment-based per-country cap. The bill facilitates job creation by establishing a new entrepreneur visa program and strengthening the investor visa program. It also eliminates nonsensical immigration programs, such as the diversity visa lottery, and contains a market-based approach to protect American workers. The SKILLS Visa Act is one of several bills the House Judiciary Committee has introduced to help address various issues within our immigration system. Chairmen Goodlatte and Issa released the statements below on the bill’s introduction. Chairman Goodlatte: “In today’s global economy, our nation needs access to the world’s best talent to maintain our competitive edge. Although high-skilled immigrants are often in demand by American employers, many of them end up on the green card waiting list for years. Consequently, many of these foreign workers and students go back to their home countries and work for one of our global competitors. “The SKILLS Visa Act provides a solution to this problem by eliminating immigration programs that do not meet the needs of our nation and reallocating those visas to high-skilled immigrants who will help make us more competitive in the today’s economy. By increasing high-skilled immigration and creating a new entrepreneur visa program, the SKILLS Visa Act will boost economic growth and create new jobs here at home.” Chairman Issa: “This bill is an investment in our Nation’s future. The SKILLS Visa Act will allow the best and brightest foreign graduates of American universities to stay in the U.S., encourage entrepreneurs and investors to grow our economy, and create American jobs. The United States is a country of innovation and opportunity that has long been a bastion for the world’s best and brightest. “In addition to keeping the world’s best and brightest here in the U.S., the SKILLS Visas Act will modernize immigration laws to help our growing technology sector. By bringing highly skilled workers into our economy, we will help ensure our Nation’s future as a leader of growth and innovation.” The bill is supported by the Consumer Electronics Association (CEA), Compete America, inSPIRE STEM USA, the Internet Association, and the Information Technology Industry Council. Original cosponsors of the bill include Reps. Spencer Bachus (R-Ala.), Ken Calvert (R-Calif.), John Campbell (R-Calif.), Steve Chabot (R-Ohio) Howard Coble (R-N.C.), Blake Farenthold (R-Texas), Trent Franks (R-Ariz.), Richard Hanna (R-N.Y.), George Holding (R-N.C.), Ted Poe (R-Texas), Todd Rokita (R-Ind.), Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisc.), Lamar Smith (R-Texas), Lee Terry (R-Neb.), and Glenn Thompson (R-Pa.). Key Components of the SKILLS Visa Act: Increases Green Cards for STEM Grads: The SKILLS Visa Act allocates up to 55,000 green cards a year for employers to petition for foreign graduates of U.S. universities with advanced degrees in STEM fields. Supports STEM Education in U.S.: The bill raises the current fee on H-1B visas and institutes a fee on employers petitioning for green cards for workers that will go towards strengthening STEM education in the U.S. Increases and Strengthens H-1B Visa Program: The SKILLS Visa Act increases the H-1B visa cap for high-skilled workers to 155,000 and increases the special pool of visas for foreign graduates of U.S. universities to 40,000. The bill contains enhanced anti-fraud provisions and allows H-1B spouses to work. Market-Based Approach to Protect American Workers: The bill improves the prevailing wage calculation to better protect American workers and extends the prevailing wage protection to similar visa programs. Provides Entrepreneur Visas: The bill allocates up to 10,000 green cards a year for alien entrepreneurs who can attract investment from venture-capital firms to establish businesses that will create five jobs or have already created five jobs over 10 years through the E-2 treaty investor program. Strengthens Investor Visa Program: The bill strengthens the investor visa green card program by making the regional center pilot project permanent, indexing investment requirements for inflation, and adding anti-fraud protections. Eliminates Arbitrary Caps: The bill eliminates the employment-based green card per-country cap, allowing American employers to have access to the best talent. Keeps Families Together: The bill allocates an additional 25,000 green cards a year to the spouses and minor children of permanent residents. It also raises the family-sponsored per-country cap. Makes Immigration System Smarter: The bill repeals the diversity lottery green card program and the siblings of U.S. citizens green card program. A copy of the legislation can be found here. More information about the bill can be found by visiting http://issa.house.gov/skills/
05.21.2013	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista) today voted in support of legislation that successfully passed the U.S. House of Representatives that will expand job training programs available to military veterans. H.R. 1412, the Improving Job Opportunities for Veterans Act of 2013, expands and improves an existing on-the-job training program that allows veterans to use educational benefits earned through their military service to learn a trade or skill by participation in an apprenticeship or on-the-job training program that leads to ready employment in high-demand fields. “As our veterans come back home, they face a challenging transition into the civilian workforce,” said Issa, whose congressional district includes Camp Pendleton. “We have a moral obligation to provide them every opportunity to gain the necessary skills and training to become top-tier job candidates.” The Improving Job Opportunities for Veterans Act of 2013 directs the Department of Veteran Affairs to work with other federal departments and agencies to develop on-the-job training programs for veterans and improves incentives for private employers to operate similar programs. “Veterans’ unemployment is a serious and persistent issue that must be addressed with the help of both the private and public sector,” said Issa. “This Act is a public-private partnership that will not only give our veterans the training they need to get a good job and take care of their families but will also provide employers with some of the nation’s hardest working employees.” For veterans wishing to learn more on employment assistance, please click here. To read the text of the Improving Job Opportunities for Veterans Act of 2013, please click here. ###
05.06.2013	As Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, I will convene a full committee hearing, “Benghazi: Exposing Failure and Recognizing Courage,” on Wednesday, May 8, 2013 at 11:30 AM. The Oversight and Government Reform Committee will hear testimony from three witnesses to expose the full truth of what happened both before and after the attacks in Benghazi which resulted in the death of four Americans, including U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens. Hearing Details: Wednesday, May 8th, 2013 “Benghazi: Exposing Failure and Recognizing Courage” Full Committee, Chairman Darrell Issa, (R-CA) 11:30 a.m. in 2154 Rayburn House Office Building and streaming live at oversight.house.gov. Witnesses: Mr. Mark Thompson Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary for Counterterrorism US Department of State Mr. Gregory Hicks Foreign Service Officer and former Deputy Chief of Mission/Chargé d’Affairs in Libya US Department of State Mr. Eric Nordstrom Diplomatic Security Officer and former Regional Security Officer in Libya US Department of State In October 2012, the Oversight Committee held the first hearing on the Benghazi attacks, which exposed denials of security requests and forced the Administration to acknowledge that the attacks were not sparked by a protest of a YouTube video, contrary to claims made by Obama Administration officials. For more information on House Oversight and Government Reform, “Benghazi: Exposing Failure and Recognizing Courage” hearing, please click here. To watch Congressman Issa discuss new testimony from Benghazi witnesses on CBS’ Face the Nation, please click here.
04.26.2013	WASHINGTON - Today, on a vote of 361-41, the House of Representatives passed the Reducing Flight Delays Act of 2013 (H.R. 1765), a bill to ensure the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) can end furloughs of air traffic controllers by making more responsible spending cuts elsewhere. The legislation, which the Senate approved yesterday, now heads to the President’s desk for his signature. “This legislation underscores that the delays airline passengers have faced were entirely avoidable,�? said House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif. “Had the Administration come to Congress in a timely fashion and requested authority to transfer funds, there would have been broad bipartisan support for avoiding delays altogether. Instead, the administration opted to create a sequestration spectacle inconveniencing millions of airline passengers.�? In February, Issa asked 17 federal agencies to identify alternative spending cuts to sequestration. The Department of Transportation is among the 16 agencies that have not responded. Yesterday, in a joint letter with House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster, R-Pa., Issa requested internal Department of Transportation documents related to the political nature of the FAA furloughs. ###
04.25.2013	WASHINGTON- House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) and House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) today, in a letter to Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood, requested documents related to Department discussions about budget flexibilities and alternative sequestration cuts that would have avoided widespread flight delays. “Many believe the FAA has sufficient budgeting flexibility to avoid many of these furloughs and thereby avoid disruption to the safety and efficiency of the nation’s aviation system,” the two Chairmen write. “In fact, it appears that under current law the FAA has flexibility to implement the cuts to minimize the impact.” The joint letter requests the Department of Transportation produce the following information by May 9, 2013: All documents and communications referring or relating to the implementation of sequestration at the FAA, including but not limited to all instructions and guidance given to FAA officials regarding how to apply budget adjustments under sequestration. All documents and communications between or among employees, agents, or contractors of DOT or FAA and employees, agents, or contractors of the Executive Office of the President referring or relating to the implementation of sequestration at the FAA. The Members also express disappointment that the Department of Transportation has implemented sequestration cuts through a non-transparent process and failed to respond to previous Committee requests related to sequestration. Click here for a full copy of the Issa/Shuster letter to Secretary LaHood. ###
04.24.2013	WASHINGTON- House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa today announced that the committee will resume hearings in May focusing on information turned over to the committee by administration whistleblowers on the Benghazi terrorist attacks. “Next month, the Oversight Committee will convene a hearing on the Benghazi terrorist attacks to examine evidence that Obama Administration officials have attempted to suppress information about errors and reckless misjudgments,” said Chairman Issa. “The American people still don’t have the full truth about what happened both before and after the murders of four brave Americans. “Our hearing will examine new facts about what happened and significant problems with the administration’s own review of Benghazi failures. While President Obama and his administration may be inclined to give free passes to senior officials who bungled their responsibilities, this committee will expose what they did and hold them accountable to the public. Getting the full story is critical to ensuring that this does not happen again.” A date for the next hearing will be announced soon. Citing concerns about possible retaliation whistleblowers could face at the hands of administration officials, Chairman Issa has declined to publicly name those who have been in contact with the committee. On October 10, 2012, the Oversight Committee held the first hearing into the Benghazi terrorist attacks that exposed administration officials denying security requests from diplomats serving in Libya as well as pre-attack State Department knowledge of terrorist operations in Benghazi. The hearing was credited with forcing the State Department to acknowledge that there was never a protest as U.N. Ambassador Susan Rice had asserted. Issa’s announcement follows yesterday’s release of an interim joint committee report released by five investigating House committees. ###
04.23.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, House Judiciary Committee members Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), and Senate Judiciary Committee members Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) and Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT) introduced H.R. 1663, Promoting Automotive Repair, Trade and Sales Act of 2013 (PARTS), a bipartisan bill which would expand consumer choice for automobile collision repair parts, cut costs paid by insurers and drivers, and ensure competition in the automobile repair parts market. The PARTS Act amends U.S. design patent law to reduce the exclusivity period car companies hold on design patents for collision repair parts from 14 years to 30 months (or two-and-a-half years) during which time other suppliers could test, research and develop parts on a not-for-sale basis. The current 14-year design patent monopoly prevents aftermarket manufacturers from making or selling external collision repair parts, driving up costs by limiting consumer choice, crowding out competition leading to higher insurance rates and fees. “The decision to purchase an automobile is one of the biggest investments a family makes,” Rep. Issa said. “With the average sticker price of a new car now exceeding $30,000 and repair costs continuing to rise, hardworking American families deserve access to as many repair part options as possible. The PARTS Act will not only increase consumer choice therefore reducing aftermarket costs but encourage innovation and competition among other aftermarket parts manufacturers.” "This bipartisan bill is aimed at helping Americans who depend on their cars to be safe, reliable and on the road so they can get their kids to school and drive to work every day,” Rep. Lofgren said. "By increasing fair competition in the auto parts market, consumers will ultimately benefit by getting the best value for their dollar when they need to shop for safe, high quality replacement car parts to keep their cars running." “Having to replace a car part is frustrating enough; drivers shouldn’t have to pay artificially high prices set by car manufacturers,” Sen. Whitehouse said. “This bill will preserve competition in the car-parts market and ultimately allow consumers to get safe replacement parts at lower prices.” “The PARTS Act keeps competition in the marketplace, ensuring that consumers have access to affordable parts they need for their vehicles,” Sen. Hatch said. “I’m hopeful we can get this legislation passed by the House and Senate and signed into law soon.” The PARTS Act, introduced today, mirrors legislation introduced by Reps. Darrell Issa and Zoe Lofgren in the 112th Congress. It would take effect 90 days after enactment and apply to design patents issued prior to, on, and after the date of enactment. Click here to read the full bill text of PARTS Act. ###
04.10.2013	WASHINGTON- House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., issued the following statement in response to the United States Postal Service announcement that it has reversed its decision to pursue modified Saturday delivery: "I am disappointed that the Postal Service has backed away from plans to implement a modified Saturday delivery schedule that polling indicates the American people understand and support. This reversal significantly undercuts the credibility of Postal officials who have told Congress that they were prepared defy political pressure and make difficult but necessary cuts. “Just a few months ago, when USPS announced that it would alter Saturday delivery service, it made no mention that this change could only occur if Congress eliminated an old and well-known provision of law. Despite some assertions, it’s quite clear that special interest lobbying and intense political pressure played a much greater role in the Postal Service’s change of heart than any real or perceived barrier to implementing what had been announced. “While I will continue to work on comprehensive postal reform legislation that can pass both the House and Senate, this reversal will clearly be a setback to such efforts.” ###
04.09.2013	WASHINGTON – Rep. Darrell Issa (CA-49), Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released the following statement on the passing of Baroness Margaret Thatcher. “Today, the world says goodbye to a great leader -- Baroness Margaret Thatcher. As Prime Minister, her belief in conservativism and the free market ushered in an era of prosperity for the United Kingdom. Even after her time in office ended, her commitment to these principles did not. Many years ago, I had the good fortune to meet Lady Thatcher at a San Diego event. “I look back at our own brief meeting several years ago and am struck by the impression her strength of character left on me. A passionate champion for individual liberty and a true friend to the people of the United States, Lady Thatcher inspired a generation to fight on. Her wisdom will be missed but her legacy lives.” ###
03.21.2013	WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Darrell Issa (CA-49) today released the following statement on House passage of H. Con. Res. 25, the GOP budget resolution for fiscal year 2014. “The House GOP plan passed today not only balances the budget in ten years but expands opportunity, creates jobs and removes the economic threat that rising debt and higher taxes poses to the economy. Time and time again, the Oversight Committee has seen government programs enmeshed in waste and abuse left unaddressed, costing taxpayers millions. The American people deserve a government that prioritizes the spending of its scarce resources, simultaneously eliminating wasteful programs and unnecessary spending on agency conferences. For the last four years, American families and businesses have made tough choices when it comes to their expenditures; it’s about time the government did the same. I applaud Chairman Paul Ryan and the House Budget Committee for their leadership and putting together this plan which will spur economic growth and get our fiscal house in order.” ###
03.20.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform today released “No Leadership, No Responsibility, No Tours,” a new video highlighting the White House’s political gamesmanship, choosing to close the White House to school groups and visitors while responsible spending reforms, like those from non-partisan Inspectors General outlined in Oversight’s March 5 Committee report, have not been implemented. “It’s telling that the President would rather cancel White House tours during the most popular tourist season than roll up his sleeves and get to work fixing our nation’s spending crisis.” Chairman Darrell Issa said. “Just two weeks ago, my committee released a report chronicling $67 billion in unimplemented reforms recommended by the President’s own non-partisan Inspectors General.” As outlined in the video, the Administration has offered differing accounts of who decided to cancel tours. On March 13, 2013, President Obama said: “this was not a decision that went up to the White House.” Then later that day, White House Press Secretary Jay Carney contradicted the President admitting, “We had to cancel the tours.”
03.15.2013	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) is now accepting submissions for the 2013 Congressional Art Competition. All high school students who are residents of the 49th District of California are encouraged to submit their creative artwork where the winning entry will be displayed in the United States Capitol building in Washington, D.C. “Since my first term in Congress, my office has received many creative pieces from students across California’s 49th District,” said Rep. Issa. “The winning artists from each Congressional District will have their artwork on display for eleven months in the U.S. Capitol to be seen by thousands of visitors each day. The display is a constant reminder of the impressive talent and creativity fostered in high schools throughout our community and across the country.” The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students in the 49th District. Students are encouraged to submit their artwork for the competition. Winners are presented with two round trip tickets to Washington, D.C. to visit the nation’s capital and attend an exclusive reception inside the U.S. Capitol honoring the country’s winners. Guidelines for the 2013 Artwork: Artwork must be two-dimensional; Each piece must be no larger than 28”x28”x4” – including the frame; Artwork cannot weigh more than 15 lbs; Work entered must be the original; and, All work submitted must be framed or have reinforced backing and be ready to hang on the exhibition wall. Acceptable mediums for submissions: Paintings: oil, acrylics, watercolor etc.; Drawings: pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, markers; Collage; Prints: lithographs, silkscreen, block prints; Mixed Media: use of more than two mediums such as pencil, ink, watercolor, etc.; Computer generated art; and, Photography. The deadline for submission is Friday, April 26. Students interested in participating in the competition are encouraged to contact my California offices at (760) 599-5000 or (949) 281-2449 if you are calling from Orange County or visit my webpage at https://www.issa.house.gov/student-center/congressional-art-competition. ###
03.14.2013	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Today, Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) invited local businesses, organizations and all interested parties to review and comment on pending tax reform legislation that will strengthen the economy and foster economic certainty for American businesses and families through a simpler, fairer tax code. “America’s tax code is broken,” said Rep. Issa. “The federal tax system is too intrusive, complicated and sometimes counterproductive. We must work to simplify it to reduce the tax burden, ease the cost of compliance, and create a more competitive tax structure so that our small businesses can invest and hire again.” The Ways and Means Committee recently released a series of draft tax reform proposals - addressing issues including “S” corporations, business partnerships and expensing rules for small businesses. Taxpayers can view the tax proposed reforms at http://waysandmeans.house.gov/taxreform/ “House Republicans want the input of the American people on tax reform as part of an open and transparent process,” said Rep. Issa. “I commend House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp for his efforts to engage the American public in the ongoing discussion about comprehensive tax reform.” Draft legislation is already available. The Congressional Committee is collecting public comments and suggestions on tax reform proposals through April 15, 2013. To submit comments and suggestions on our tax code, please visit the Committee’s website at http://waysandmeans.house.gov/ or follow the guidelines below: Any person(s) and/or organization(s) wishing to submit comments can email tax.reform@mail.house.gov. In the subject line of the email, please indicate “Comments: (name of) Tax Reform Working Group” (note: be sure to specify the name of the working group in the subject line - e.g., Energy Tax Reform Working Group). Attach your submission as a Word document. In addition to the Word document attachment, please include in the body of the email a contact name, physical address, phone number and email address. For questions, or if you encounter technical problems, please call (202) 225-3625 or (202) 225-1721. ###
03.12.2013	WASHINGTON- House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa today offered the following statement on the unveiling of a budget plan by House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) that would balance the budget in 10 years: “I applaud Chairman Ryan for his strong and consistent leadership in reminding all of us that, just as American families have to budget their spending, the federal government should too. Much of the spending reduction targets included in this plan to balance the budget in ten years can be achieved through the elimination of waste and more efficient uses of scarce resources. At the Oversight Committee, we have seen example after example where the federal government has recklessly spent taxpayer dollars. Tightening the belt will force government to live within its means through savings from things like unnecessary conference spending, the adoption of billions in unimplemented recommendations from non-partisan government watchdogs, wasteful Obamacare initiatives, and reforms to entitlement spending programs that are pillaged by waste and fraud. “Before I came to Congress, as an entrepreneur, I learned that smaller and more efficient government created the best atmosphere for job creation. Now, the best thing government can do to spur economic growth is get its own fiscal house in order. This plan to balance the budget is a responsible effort that puts us on that course.” Click here for more information on the budget plan unveiled today. ###
03.04.2013	WASHINGTON. D.C. – This week, Congressman Darrell (CA-49) Issa applauded the passage of the Academic Competition Resolution of 2013 which establishes an academic competition in the fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) among high school students in Congressional districts across the country. “We must all recognize the role that science, technology, engineering and mathematics plays in the development of a successful 21st century – generating high-paying jobs and economic growth,” said Issa. “Employment in STEM occupations has outpaced job growth across all occupations by a ratio of 27 to 1 between 2002 and 2011. This competition will foster youth innovation and talent in high-tech industries. It is in our national interests to have as many young people as possible interested in and enthusiastic about pursuing an education in science, mathematics, engineering and other technology-centered areas.” Congressman Issa has been a strong advocate for encouraging greater support for STEM education and STEM jobs – both by domestic academic programs and by increasing STEM visas to allow foreign students graduating from American universities with high-education STEM degrees to stay in the country. Modeled after the Congressional Art Competition, the Academic Competition will allow Members of Congress to host an annual STEM contest in their Congressional district. Winning entries will be recognized by the House of Representatives. Congressman Issa is an original co-sponsor of the Academic Competition Resolution of 2013. To watch Congressman Issa’s floor speech supporting the House-wide STEM student competition, please click here. ###
03.01.2013	WASHINGTON – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) has asked federal agencies to identify unnecessary or wasteful programs within their agency that could be eliminated as an alternative to the spending cuts mandated by sequestration. “We cannot avert sequestration without a plan to end the undisciplined and unsustainable federal spending that resulted in the sequester in the first place,” Issa said a letter sent to the acting heads of 17 federal agencies. “Raising taxes on the American people for a second time this year is not the solution to sequestration,” the letter states. “It is time for the federal government to eliminate wasteful and duplicative programs, in addition to making reductions in non-essential agency programs,” Issa continued. “The President agrees. He cited cutting government spending on ‘wasteful programs that don’t work’ as part of his preferred alternative to the sequester. I am writing to request your assistance in identifying such programs. The letter cites the hundreds of recommendations of wasteful or duplicative spending that the Committee has received from inspectors general as examples of cuts that could be implemented in the short term to meet the required $85 billion in spending reductions. The Committee is holding the first in a series of hearings on implementing more recommendations made by inspectors general on Tuesday, March 5th at 10:00 a.m. The hearing will focus on reducing waste and improving efficiency at the Department of Education and the Department of Transportation and will be streaming online at oversight.house.gov. A sample of the letters sent to the agencies can be found here. The letters were sent to the following agencies: U.S. Department of Agriculture U.S. Department of Commerce Department of Defense U.S. Department of Education U.S. Department of Energy U.S. Environmental Protection Agency U.S. Department of Health & Human Services Department of Homeland Security U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Department of the Interior U.S. Department of Justice U.S. Department of Labor U.S. Small Business Administration U.S. Department of State U.S. Department of Transportation Department of the Treasury U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs ###
02.28.2013	WASHINGTON – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) today issued the following statement on the passage of S. 47, the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). The bill was approved by the House by a vote of 286-138. “Passage of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) provides essential protections to women and victims of domestic abuse. The addition of specific language to help Native American tribes address domestic violence on tribal lands is a victory for those who insisted on their inclusion and the many Americans this new authority will help. For too long, tribes have been hamstrung in efforts to aid Native American women when they need it the most. By allowing Indian tribal courts jurisdiction over domestic violence occurring on their lands, this bill ensures Native American women will receive the legal protection and assistance they deserve. This legislation also renews programs that assist victims of sex crimes and domestic abuse as well as funding for educational initiatives designed to prevent violence and recognize signs of abused women and children. Preventing violence and making resources available to help victims to escape ultimately saves lives and the more substantial expenditures communities face from failure to confront abuse.” Earlier this month, Congressman Issa reintroduced the Violence Against Indian Women Act (VAIWA) as H.R. 780. VAIWA sought to strengthen protection for domestic violence victims on Indian tribal lands. San Diego County is home to 17 federally recognized Indian tribes. ###
02.20.2013	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Representative Darrell Issa (R-CA) reintroduced the Violence Against Indian Women Act (VAIWA) as H.R. 780 on Friday. The bill authorizes Indian tribes to exercise jurisdiction over crimes of domestic violence that occur in the Indian country of that tribe. “The current law enforcement system for Native American women is broken,” said Rep. Issa. “Too many victims of domestic violence cannot get access to law enforcement during times of emergency and more will continue to suffer unless Congress acts. VAIWA fills this jurisdictional black hole so that appropriate police and courts can prevent and solve domestic abuse crimes in Indian tribal lands while still ensuring that the accused’s constitutional rights are protected.” Cosponsors include Reps. Mark Amodei (NV-2), Tom Cole (OK-4), Jeff Denham (CA-10), John Kline (MN-2), Patrick McHenry (NC-10), David Schweikert (AZ-6) and Michael Simpson (ID-2). ###
02.13.2013	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Representative Darrell Issa (R-CA) tonight released a video statement on President Barack Obama’s State of the Union Address: CLICK HERE TO WATCH REP. ISSA’S RESPONSE Rep. Issa's response: “Tonight, I’d hoped to hear from the President his vision for us working together to create a better America. Instead, I heard those same old lines and repackaged ideas of spending our way into prosperity. “Investing in America isn’t about the government taking your money and investing it. It’s about you taking your money and investing it in those things that create high paying American jobs. I believe we can get there. I believe we have to get there. “To get there, we need the President working with us and the private sector, in a way that wasn’t presented tonight.” # # #
02.13.2013	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) sent a letter yesterday to the Commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps, General James Amos, seeking a response from the Marine Corps on recent reports that Marine suicides have risen at an alarming rate. Issa’s letter asked for more information on the Marine Corps’ efforts to prevent suicide and asked how Congress can improve support for successful prevention efforts. “After a downward trend in suicide, the Marine Corps suffered a 50% increase in suicides in 2012 – the highest increase in the Department of Defense,” wrote Issa in the letter to Amos. “This is a complicated issue that needs the support of the entire community to address. We owe those servicemembers and their families affected by this tragic issue all the help we can provide. I am committed to work with the Commandant, our Marine support community at Camp Pendleton, and the 49th Congressional District to educate and prevent these tragedies.” The Marine Corps has taken important steps to address this issue, such as Never Leave a Marine Behind training and Force Preservation Councils; however, the recent spike in Marine Corps suicides suggests there is still much work to be done. Congressman Issa represents the 49th District of California which includes Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton. He is a member of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus and the House Navy and Marine Corps Caucus. To view a copy of the letter, please click here. ###
02.06.2013	WASHINGTON- House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., and Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Ranking Member Tom Coburn M.D., R-Okla., sent a letter to leaders of both chambers of Congress supporting today’s announcement by the United States Postal Service that in August it would shift from its current delivery schedule to a six-day package, five-day mail delivery schedule. Issa and Coburn are the top Republicans on the respective House and Senate Committees with jurisdiction over USPS. “This common-sense reform would save the Postal Service more than two billion annually,” wrote Coburn and Issa. “In his recent inaugural address, President Obama spoke about the need to find real solutions to our nation’s problems. Supporting the US Postal Service’s plan to move forward with 5-day mail delivery is one such solution worthy of bipartisan support.” Since 1984, Congress has annually imposed an over $2 billion unfunded mandate on USPS to deliver six days a week. Coburn and Issa ask House and Senate leaders of both parties to work with them to ensure no such restriction is reintroduced when the FY2013 government funding resolution expires at the end of March. The letter also notes that “President Obama has repeatedly called for moving to 5-day delivery of mail, most recently in his FY 2013 budget.” You can read a copy of the letter here. ###
02.04.2013	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Representative Darrell Issa (CA-49), a member of the House Judiciary Committee, today announced the reintroduction of three immigration reform bills to improve American competitiveness, encourage those who enter our country legally to stay, and impose criminal sentencing for those who enter our country after having been removed. “We must take a balanced and practical approach to immigration,” said Rep. Issa on the introduction of the three bills. “This includes making our country more accessible to those who can fill critical needs and also stiffening penalties for those who continue to violate our laws. From high-tech entrepreneurs to those who fight in our armed services, these reforms offer new benefits and securities that must go hand in hand with tougher enforcement.” Summary of bills reintroduced by Rep. Issa: STEM Jobs Act (H.R. 459): Allocates 55,000 visas per year for foreign students receiving advanced degrees in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). The STEM Jobs Act builds off visa reform legislation Issa first introduced in 2007 and reintroduced in January 2011. Similar legislation passed the House of Representatives in November 2012. Fallen Heroes Family Act (H.R. 458): Grants temporary nonimmigrant status to a surviving, foreign national parent or permanent guardian of a U.S. citizen child born outside of the United States when the deceased parent was an active-duty service member of the U.S. military. Issa introduced the Fallen Heroes Family Act in 2009 with bipartisan support. Criminal Alien Accountability Act (H.R. 457): Imposes mandatory sentencing for aliens who reenter the United States after having been deported for previous crimes committed in the United States. Tomorrow at 10:15 AM, the House Judiciary Committee will hold the first congressional hearing on immigration reform, "America's Immigration System: Opportunities for Legal Immigration and Enforcement of Laws Against Illegal Immigration." ###
01.31.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Representative Darrell Issa, Chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, issued the following statement in response to Israel’s launch of an airstrike inside of Syria against a convoy allegedly delivering weapons to Hezbollah militants inside of Lebanon: “It is long overdue for the Israeli government to go after the source of the weapons stockpiles that have aided the terrorist group Hezbollah,” Issa said. “The Syrian government continues to take provocative actions against its own people and neighbors, flying in the face of the will of the international community. The actions taken by the Israeli government to prevent Syria from transferring weaponry to Hezbollah were both measured and appropriate.” “As Syria teeters on the precipice of becoming a failed state, it is crucial that regional actors and the international community at-large not allow the conflict there to spill over into Lebanon or other neighboring states.” # # #
01.16.2013	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Representative Darrell Issa (CA-49) today voted against a $33 billion amendment containing spending unrelated to emergency assistance and areas hit by Hurricane Sandy. Issa had earlier voted to support $17 billion in needed and targeted emergency assistance. “I’m disappointed that needed emergency assistance legislation was hijacked and loaded up with spending that is unrelated to Hurricane Sandy’s devastation and the immediate needs of victims and communities,” said Issa. “Despite efforts to trim unrelated expenditures that should have faced greater scrutiny, the House of Representatives did not give the American people a substantially better and cleaner bill.” Rep. Issa, on January 6, 2013, voted in favor of H.R. 41, which contained $9.7 billion in emergency assistance to help the National Flood Insurance Program pay claims to victims of Hurricane Sandy. In debate, he noted that emergency supplementals should, “only be about the emergency.” Today, Rep. Issa voted in favor of the Rogers Amendment that provides $17 billion in additional emergency funding to address the immediate needs of victims and communities affected by Hurricane Sandy. He opposed another amendment adding $33 billion of additional funding that included: Transportation funding included in the bill (highway, train, etc) is not limited to areas affected by Sandy Provisions make Guam eligible for funding (it is closer to Tokyo than anywhere affected by Hurricane Sandy) NOAA gets funding for improvements to weather forecasting equipment, satellite systems, and other projects that were not damaged by Sandy but would nonetheless receive “upgrades” $16 billion of Community Development Funds that would be available to any community or state that was declared a federal disaster area in 2011, 2012 and 2013. (Hurricane Sandy occurred AFTER 2011 and more states than those affected would be eligible) $2 million for Smithsonian roof repairs Includes $3.46 billion in Army Corps of Engineers spending designated by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) as non-emergency According to CBO, 80 percent of spending outlays occur in FY15 and beyond – this means only 20% of “emergency” funding would be spent in the next 2 years. The House of Representatives voted 241 to 180 to approve H.R. 152. Citing the $33 billion added to the bill, Rep. Issa voted against final passage. # # #
01.03.2013	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista) today was sworn into the 113th Congress beginning his 7th term in the U.S House of Representatives. “I am truly honored and grateful that the people of the 49th Congressional district have given me the opportunity to represent them and to build upon my work holding government accountable and to make it work better and more efficiently,” said Issa. “I will continue to focus my efforts on policies that spur economic growth, create jobs and prosperity.” Issa will continue to lead the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, where his investigations have exposed the Justice Department’s botched-gun operation known as “Fast and Furious” which allowed automatic weapons to leave the United States and be put into the hands of Mexican drug-cartels, the Department of Energy’s loan guarantee program that “invested” hundreds-of-billions of taxpayer dollars in companies like Solyndra that went bankrupt, and uncovered staggering vulnerabilities in security protocol for U.S. diplomats in the wake of the tragedy in Benghazi. “San Diego and Orange County residents see every day how Washington is failing them,” said Issa. “My position as Chairman of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee has given me a tremendous platform to work on behalf of the taxpayers to expose government’s failures and to fight for an aggressive reform agenda that will reign in waste, fraud and abuse.” Issa called a return to fiscal sanity the most pressing challenge confronting the 113th Congress, “Make no mistake about it, this is a crisis situation that requires bold leadership and tough decisions. Washington cannot continue to spend more than it takes in and it cannot tax its way into fiscal balance,” he continued. Issa has been representing the 49th Congressional district since 2000. The newly drawn 49th Congressional District includes the San Diego and Orange County communities of: Carlsbad, Encinitas, Vista, Oceanside, Del Mar, Camp Pendleton, Solana Beach, Rancho Santa Fe, San Clemente, Dana Point, San Juan Capistrano, Coto de Caza and Ladera Ranch. # # #
12.19.2012	WASHINGTON – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa issued the following statement on the Accountability Review Board’s (ARB) report on the September 11, 2012, diplomatic compound attack in Benghazi. “I appreciate the Accountability Review Board’s work reviewing the facts about the September 11th attacks and the security failures that preceded it. The board’s conclusions follow and confirm the accounts of U.S. security officials based in Libya who testified before the Oversight Committee in October and contradicts senior officials in Washington who testified that the security posture was adequate. In light of the report, I am concerned that the carefully vetted testimony of senior State Department officials at the October hearing was part of an intentional effort to mislead the American people. “While I appreciate the board’s hard work, I am deeply concerned that the unclassified report omits important information the public has a right to know. This includes details about the perpetrators of the attack in Libya as well as the less-than-noble reasons contributing to State Department decisions to deny security resources. Relevant details that would not harm national security have been withheld and the classified report suffers from an enormous over-classification problem. I intend to work closely with my colleagues at committees with relevant jurisdiction to address information that has been withheld. At some point Secretary Clinton will need to personally address the remaining issues.” ###
11.29.2012	WASHINGTON. D.C.– On a bipartisan vote of 245-139, today the House of Representatives passed substantial immigration reform that will improve American competitiveness. H.R. 6429, the STEM Jobs Act, increases the number of visas to foreign students receiving advanced degrees in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), an original cosponsor of the legislation, offered the following statement: “We must all recognize the role that science, technology, engineering and mathematics plays in the development of a successful 21st Century economy,” said Issa, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee. “For years, foreign students have come to the United States seeking the benefits of the first-class, world-class higher-education systems we offer. They receive the STEM skills they need to revolutionize industries, transform economies and create an untold number of jobs. Yet our broken visa system has exported those skills and jobs out of the United States allowing other nations to benefit from the education these students received here.” A 2011 Kauffman Foundation study found almost one in four American high-technology firms founded between 1995 and 2005 have had at least one immigrant founder. These are the same companies that have gone on to create thousands of jobs in America and California. “Making more STEM visas available to highly trained students is a win-win for job creators and our economy,” Issa added. “At this very moment, there is a student at a school somewhere in the United States who is about to seize upon an idea - an idea that could give birth to a new economy that redefines a nation’s identity and alters its economic future. Whether that next revolution happens in the United States or somewhere else is our decision to make. We must invest in the students of today if we are to cement our place as a global leader in tomorrow’s economy.” The STEM Jobs Act increases the number of visas for highly skilled foreign students to 55,000 visas per year, while eliminating the diversity visa lottery system. The STEM Jobs Act builds off visa reform legislation Issa first introduced in 2007 and reintroduced in January 2011. # # #
11.21.2012	Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif., offered the following statement on the passing of Mr. David Copley:“My deepest sympathies go out to David Copley’s family on his untimely passing. David led the San Diego Union-Tribune, steadfastly carried on his family’s tradition of generosity, and was a selfless devotee of the arts in San Diego. It’s a loss for our entire community.” ###
11.20.2012	WASHINGTON. D.C.– Middle-school and high-school students from the Oceanside, Vista and San Clemente branches of the Boys and Girls Club visited Washington D.C. on November 14 to meet with Rep. Darrell Issa (CA-49).The students shared with Rep. Issa their experiences from participating in a mock Congress where they debated and discussed various legislative initiatives such as immigration reform. “The policies we make in Washington impact our youth and their futures,” said Issa. “This is a wonderful program that our local Boys and Girls Clubs have put together and hopefully, by exposing these young students to a firsthand look at the American political process, a new generation of leaders and activists will take shape.” “Congressman Issa has always been a strong supporter of our advocacy and educational programs and we are incredibly grateful that he could dedicate some of his time in Washington to meet with our kids,” said Danny Sherlock, President and CEO of the Boys and Girls Clubs of Greater San Diego. “It’s important for our youth to gain a first-hand understanding of how their government works and how they can play an active role in making a difference in the world around them.” The students visited Capitol Hill to participate in the Close Up Foundation program that seeks to educate, inform and inspire students by providing them with the experiences and skills necessary to become active citizens in a democracy. Congressman Issa with students from the San Clemente Boys and Girls Club Congressman Issa with students from the Vista Boys and Girls Club Congressman Issa with students from the Oceanside Boys and Girls Club # # #
10.02.2012	10/2/2012 WASHINGTON, DC – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa released the following statement following reports of a shooting that killed one Border Patrol Agent and wounded another near the newly named Brian Terry Border Patrol Station in Bisbee, Arizona: “This shooting is a tragic reminder of the dangers the brave men and women who guard our borders face every day. Just last month, I attended a ceremony with agents based at the Bisbee station naming it in honor of their fallen colleague, Brian Terry. My prayers are with the family of the agent who lost his life today and his wounded colleague. “Authorities must investigate the full circumstances of this shooting. I urge everyone to think of the families of these agents and avoid drawing conclusions before relevant facts are known.” ###
09.20.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement on today’s vote on H.R. 6429 – the STEM Jobs Act which fell short of the two-thirds majority needed to pass the bill under suspension of the rules in a vote of 257-158. This bill eliminates the diversity visa lottery system and reallocates 55,000 visas available to foreign students receiving advanced degrees in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) in the United States. “Many of the world’s top students come to the United States to obtain advanced degrees from some of the best universities and colleges in the world,” Issa said. “Instead of encouraging these highly skilled, foreign students to stay in America, current law forces these highly qualified individuals to return home, or to third-party countries where they become innovators and entrepreneurs creating prosperity and capital for America’s competitors.” “America cannot afford to continue to educate these students then send them back to our global competitors upon completion of their degree. It’s a shame that partisan politics has, once again, stood in the way of generating jobs, boosting the economy and increasing American competitiveness. It is my hope that Congress can set aside party politics and work together towards real STEM immigration reform so that we may stop sending these bright, foreign students to our competitors overseas.” The STEM Jobs Act builds off visa reform legislation Issa reintroduced in January 2011 to increase America’s competitors. Rep. Issa is an original cosponsor of H.R. 6429. Click here for Rep. Issa’s speech on the House floor in support of H.R. 6429. ###
09.18.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) today joined a bipartisan group of nearly 50 Members of Congress to introduce legislation to increase the number of visas available to foreign students receiving science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) advanced degrees in the United States. TheSTEM Jobs Act (H.R. 6429) supports American job creators’ ability to innovate and grow by reallocating up to 55,000 visas per year to highly skilled foreign students, while eliminating the diversity visa lottery. The STEM Jobs Act builds off visa reform legislation Issa reintroduced in January 2011 to increase American competitiveness. "For years, American colleges and universities have given foreign students the STEM skills they need to compete in the global economy, yet our inadequate visa system has ensured those skills are put to use in other countries,” Issa said. “These individuals are forced to return home, or to third-party countries such as Canada and they often become innovators and entrepreneurs who create prosperity and world-class companies. Meanwhile, American job creators are crying out for the very people our broken immigration system turns away.” "This legislation is a good step towards reforming our immigration system to ensure our economy has the workforce it needs to return to growth. Increasing STEM visas has been a priority throughout my service in Congress, and I am proud to be an original cosponsor of H.R. 6429.” The full U.S. House of Representatives is expected to vote on the STEM Jobs Act later this week. ###
09.12.2012	(WASHINGTON) —Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA-49) today released the following statement regarding the Libyan attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya: "My thoughts and prayers are with the families of Chris Stevens, Sean Smith and the two other Americans killed in the line of duty in Libya. They worked in the face of danger to keep us safe, advance our ideals and improve the lives of vulnerable people around the world. This attack is a startling reminder that we must remain ever vigilant in the defense of our freedom." ###
08.21.2012	(WASHINGTON)—Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA-49) today released the following statement regarding comments made by Rep. Todd Akin (R-MO): “Rep. Akin's comments are wrong, offensive and totally inappropriate. Women who are victims of violence and sexual assault should not have the crimes against them diminished or demeaned.” Congressman Issa voted in favor of H.R. 4970, the Violence Against Women Act Reauthorization of 2012. # # #
08.01.2012	(WASHINGTON)—The House Judiciary Intellectual Property Subcommittee today heard testimony from auto industry members, aftermarket automobile repair experts, and consumer groups regarding the Promoting Automotive Repair Trade and Sales (PARTS) Act authored by Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA). The bill, H.R. 3889, will expand consumer choices, cut costs paid by insurers and drivers and ensure competition in the automobile component replacement parts market. “Competition is the hallmark of our free market system,” Issa said. “For decades Americans have been used to having choice when it comes to the component parts that they use to repair their vehicles after an automobile accident. My bill ensures that this choice will remain intact.” The bill will set a two and a half year boundary on the exclusivity period for automotive design patents related to so-called alternatively supplied parts and equipment. During this patent protection period, manufacturers of these parts could conduct testing, research and development on a not-for-sale basis without infringing on the patents of the original manufacturer. Auto manufacturers and original parts suppliers currently hold a 14-year exclusivity period for collision repair parts, thereby limiting consumer choices and competition. “The PARTS Act is intended only to deal with auto collision repair parts like fenders, side mirrors, door panels and bumpers. In recent years, auto companies have been increasingly seeking design patents on these parts which creates a 14 year window of exclusivity. The PARTS Act does not deal with interior parts, the engine, transmission or undercarriage—parts covered by utility patents,” Rep. Issa said. “This difference is important because utility patents are generally what we associate with the invention or discovery of a new and useful process or machine. Design patents, on the other hand, are generally granted to those who invent a new, original and ornamental design for an item—the underlying invention is not new, only its appearance,” Issa added. A link to information about the bill is here. # # #
07.26.2012	(WASHINGTON)—The House of Representatives today passed a comprehensive regulatory reform bill to cut red tape and make the federal rulemaking process more friendly to job creators. The measure included several provisions previously passed by the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. "The Obama Administration has issued some 106 rules in its first three years that collectively will cost taxpayers more than $46 billion annually in compliance and lost productivity. This is four times the number of major regulations and five times the cost of rules issued in the prior administration's first three years," Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Issa said. "In more than 30 hearings, examinations and public forums, our Committee has heard loud and clear from job creators across the country who tell us that red tape imposed by the federal government chokes economic expansion and hurts job creation. Nonpartisan research surveys report that the American public feels the same way—with an overwhelming majority saying federal regulations are a major reason why the economy is struggling. This bill helps unwind much of this unnecessary red tape and frees entrepreneurs and business owners to do what they do best: create jobs and opportunity," Issa added. The Red Tape Reduction and Small Business Act (H.R. 4078) includes several key proposals: - The bill imposes a freeze on economically significant regulations that harm the economy until the unemployment stabilizes at 6 percent or below; - It permanently blocks administrations, during the "lame duck" post election period in which they are not serving a subsequent term, from issuing economically significant regulations. Administrations in this category have historically issued new rules at a 17 percent higher rate than non election years; - The bill also ensures that parties impacted by government red tape have a right to intervene before agencies agree to binding legal settlements that mandate new regulations. This will ease the use of judicial decrees or settlement agreements to force new regulations outside the regular process; - It also requires that independent federal agencies such as the Federal Communications Commission and National Labor Relations Board comply with the same review requirements as other agencies as well as increased public transparency concerning unfunded mandates imposed on state and local governments; - Ease regulatory hurdles on federal construction projects. One survey found that some 350 energy projects were stalled because of red tape that, if expedited, could generate nearly 2 million construction jobs plus $145 billion in economic activity; - The legislation also requires the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to conduct more thorough cost-benefit analysis of proposed regulations. Last year the agencies had over 100 rules in the approval process. Several of the red tape reduction measures included were also supported by President Obama's Job's Council; three of the provisions included in this legislation were earlier passed by the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform as stand-alone bills, and were included as part of the larger Red Tape Reduction and Small Business Job Creation Act. The Committee recently released a comprehensive staff report documenting, in the words of job creators and business operators, the specific regulatory impediments they face that stifle job creation. A copy is available here. President Obama's rulemaking and regulatory administrator Cass Sunstein has praised the Oversight Committee's "constructive and important work" on the issue of streamlining red tape and easing federal rules that hurt job creation. # # #
07.25.2012	(WASHINGTON)—Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) and a bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives today passed legislation requiring an independent audit of the Federal Reserve (Fed). The bill was approved by a vote of 327 to 98. The bill had previously advanced from the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, of which Issa is Chairman, by bipartisan voice vote on June 27. “Since the 2008 financial crisis, the Fed has tripled its balance sheet to $3 trillion, equivalent to 20% of the economy, through an unprecedented series of bailouts and economic interventions,” Chairman Issa said. “Policy choices made by unelected Fed bureaucrats have the potential to dramatically affect the fiscal policy of the nation, the global economy, and the lives of everyday Americans. The public has a right to understand how and under what terms decisions were made and who is responsible,” Issa added. The bill, H.R. 459, will ensure that Federal Reserve decisions on monetary policy, transactions with foreign banks and Federal Open Market Committee transactions are made transparent to Congress and the public. It requires a one-time audit to be completed by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), the government’s non-partisan watchdog agency. It also requires that a report be submitted to Congress on the results of the audit within 12 months of enactment. The “audit the Fed” bill makes changes to current law which prohibits GAO from conducting a full audit of key Fed operations. It also allows for audits of not just financial statements, which are currently available, but also of the Fed’s balance sheet, which contains currently unaudited monetary policy operations and lending to foreign central banks. The bill makes no changes to the Fed’s unique and independent reporting and decision-making authority. # # #
07.18.2012	Measure Requires Obama Administration Transparency on Defense Cuts (WASHINGTON) — The House of Representatives passed legislation today (by a vote of 414-2) requiring the Obama Administration within 30 days to provide specific details on how it would implement required cuts in defense spending. That automatic budget reduction process is known as sequestration. Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement on the bill (H.R. 5872), the Sequestration Transparency Act: "The Obama Administration owes our military and the public a full, honest and open accounting of how it will address budget sequestration and impacts on the Department of Defense, the military community, and our national defense. The President who pledged to be the most transparent in history has thus far failed to meet that goal on this crucial issue. "In January 2013, the sequestration process will cut defense spending by $500 billion at a time when missions stretch around the globe addressing ongoing and rising threats. If our military is to prepare for these cuts, military officials and the public deserve to know the specifics. Despite repeated requests, the Obama Administration has refused to provide details on sequestration cuts. Likewise the Office of Management and Budget has failed to gather data on the effects the cuts will have on current programs and activities, despite the requirement that it do so. "The Pentagon will be responsible for half of the $1.2 trillion in reductions required by sequestration even though national defense is less than 20 percent of the federal budget. "The cuts facing our military are very real—and the impact to our San Diego community may be substantial. According to the San Diego Military Advisory Council, the military sector and defense related spending account for over 300,000 jobs in the region and support a large element of our national defense mission at home and around the world." # # #
07.11.2012	(WASHINGTON) — Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) issued the following statement today following a 244-185 vote in the House of Representatives to repeal President Obama's health care program: "President Obama's health care law so frightens job creators and Americans concerned about unwanted changes to their healthcare that the public continues to demand its repeal. "As the Supreme Court recently affirmed, Obamacare is a tax and it was imposed amidst an extended recession, burying job creators in new red tape and saddling future generations with debt they cannot afford. "Repeal of Obamacare is only one part of the process, however. Once this flawed health law has been repealed, Congress must work to enact vital health care reforms that protect doctor-patient relationships and ensure quality coverage for Americans who need it—without adding to the nation's already significant debt." ###
07.01.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – On June 26th Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) sent a letter to U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk requesting permission to observe the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) talks that will take place in San Diego, Calif., next week. He wrote, "It is my hope that observing the negotiating process firsthand will help to alleviate some of my concerns about the process through which the agreement is being negotiated." Congressman Issa was informed yesterday by the office of U.S. Trade Representative Kirk that he would be barred from observing the negotiations and only able to attend "public portions of the event." In response, Congressman Issa released the following statement today: "The U.S. Trade Representative has once again chosen to block Congress from observing negotiations for this vital trade agreement over which the House and Senate have fundamental constitutional responsibility. "The TPP process should be transparent and open to oversight, not a secretive backroom negotiation. TPP agreements impact multiple sectors of the American economy—especially our ability to innovate and create new intellectual property, as well as preserve an open Internet. "Congress has a constitutional duty to oversee trade negotiations and not simply act as a rubber stamp to deals about which they were kept in the dark. While I had hoped the TPP would permit me to observe this round of the negotiation process firsthand, our efforts to open TPP negotiations up to transparency will continue." Learn more at KeepTheWebOPEN.com/tpp. ###
06.29.2012	(WASHINGTON) — Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement regarding the U.S. Supreme Court decision on President Obama’s health care law: “The Supreme Court has ruled to uphold the President’s Obamacare. Despite being viewed as Constitutional by a narrow majority, this law will do great harm to our country by imposing new taxes, burying job creators in new red tape and saddling future generations with debt they can’t afford. “In selling Obamacare, Congressional Democrats and President Obama assured the American people that it was not a tax. Today, the Supreme Court ruled it was, in fact, a tax. This tax was imposed on the American people amidst an extended recession and is one of the many reasons our economy remains stagnant under President Obama’s leadership. “To date, the Republican-led House of Representatives has voted 30 times to repeal, dismantle and defund Obamacare—and we will continue our efforts to repeal this law and replace it with health care reform that enacts needed reforms without imposing costs that will be paid by subsequent generations. “In the days ahead, I will work with my colleagues to achieve real solutions to America’s health care challenges that do not infringe on doctor patient relationships, impose unpopular mandates, and do not add to the nation’s already significant debt." ###
06.27.2012	Requests Observer Status to Monitor Internet Freedom & Intellectual Property Rights Concerns WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) today sent a letter to United States Trade Representative (USTR) Ron Kirk formally requesting admission to observe the upcoming round of negotiations on the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) scheduled for July 2-10, 2012 in San Diego, CA. Citizens, stakeholders and Members of Congress have publicly expressed concern about the lack of transparency in the TPP negotiating process. In an effort to encourage the Obama Administration to be more transparent about what they were seeking to include in the agreement, Issa released the draft February 2011 intellectual property (IP) rights chapter to the public at KeepTheWebOPEN.com. "Given the immense impact that this agreement will have on many areas of the American economy, including intellectual property, I respectfully request that you allow me and certain members of my staff to be present as observers for this round of negotiations," Issa wrote in the letter. "It is my hope that observing the negotiating process firsthand will help to alleviate some of my concerns about the process through which the agreement is being negotiated." Learn more at KeepTheWebOPEN.com/tpp. ###
06.25.2012	(WASHINGTON) — Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) today released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court's decision involving the cross honoring veterans on Mt. Soledad. The court declined to take action on the case and returned it to the lower federal district court for further action. "The Supreme Court's announcement today is a disappointment to all of us who hoped that it would review the case and set aside this assault on religious expression and on a special place where San Diegans honor the service of veterans. That did not happen, and the case will now be returned to the district court for further consideration. "Our founding fathers did not seek to scrub all religious expression from public spaces, but rather sought to create a government and a society that respected the practice of all religions. The Mt. Soledad War Memorial and the landmark Cross honor the veterans in the same vein as crosses that mark the gravesites of soldiers entombed at Arlington National Cemetery and other U.S. veterans cemeteries worldwide. "We will continue to work towards an outcome that preserves the Memorial as a tribute to the sacrifices of veterans who served to protect freedom." Issa cosponsored legislation authored by Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-El Cajon) and Rep. Brian Bilbray (R-Solana Beach) to permit religious symbols on military monuments and preserve the cross in its present location. # # # .
06.19.2012	WASHINGTON - House Oversight and Government Reform (OGR) Committee Chairman Darrell Issa issued the following statement regarding President Barrack Obama’s June 15 decision to essentially offer amnesty to 800,000 illegal immigrants: “This Administration continues to act as though there is only one branch of government. The President doesn’t get to choose which laws he wants to enforce and which he wants to ignore. This is the latest in a string of occurrences where President Obama has thumbed his nose at the law making process to benefit his own re-election campaign and personal agenda. President Obama’s action contradicts present law and violates the Constitutional principle of a separation of powers which grants primary law making authority to the Congress. Selective enforcement is the measure of tin-pot dictators and despots, not constitutional democracies. “We do need immigration reform, but Mr. Obama’s rash actions make it difficult to gauge the true impacts of his policy. There are too many unanswered questions to allow this to go unchallenged. President Obama should suspend this order and make his case with lawmakers and the American people." ###
06.11.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. — On Wednesday, June 20, 2012, the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee will convene to consider a report holding Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress for his failure to produce documents specified in the Committee's October 12, 2011, subpoena. Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa issued the following statement on the scheduling of a Committee vote on contempt: "For over a year and a half, the House Oversight Committee, with Senator Chuck Grassley, has conducted a joint investigation of reckless conduct in Operation Fast and Furious. With the support of House leadership, the Republican Conference, and even some Democratic Members who have expressed concern to the White House over the Justice Department's failure to cooperate, this investigation has yielded significant results. The Attorney General has acknowledged that the operation was fundamentally flawed and he has committed to take steps to ensure that it does not occur again. Evidence found in applications for wiretaps shows that although senior officials were given information about reckless tactics, they still signed affirmations that they had reviewed the investigation and determined that electronic surveillance of phones was necessary. "Despite what the investigation has uncovered through whistleblowers and documents the Justice Department had tried to hide, the Committee's work is not yet complete. Attorney General Holder has failed to meet his legal obligations pursuant to the October 12 subpoena. House leaders reiterated this failure in a May 18, 2012, letter. Specifically, the Justice Department has refused to turn over critical documents on the grounds that they show internal Department deliberations and were created after February 4, 2011 – the date Justice issued a false denial to Congress. Contempt will focus on the failure to provide these post February 4th documents. "The Obama Administration has not asserted Executive Privilege or any other valid privilege over these materials and it is unacceptable that the Department of Justice refuses to produce them. These documents pertain to Operation Fast and Furious, the claims of whistleblowers, and why it took the Department nearly a year to retract false denials of reckless tactics. The Justice Department's actions have obstructed the investigation. Congress has an obligation to investigate unanswered questions about attempts to smear whistleblowers, failures by Justice Department officials to be truthful and candid with the congressional investigation, and the reasons for the significant delay in acknowledging reckless conduct in Operation Fast and Furious. "While the Justice Department can still stop the process of contempt, this will only occur through the delivery of the post February 4, 2011, documents related to Operation Fast and Furious and whistleblower accusations subpoenaed by the Committee. If the Attorney General decides to produce these subpoenaed documents, I am confident we can reach agreement on other materials and render the process of contempt unnecessary." Committee consideration of a contempt citation is a debatable and amendable measure. Committee approval requires a majority vote. Contempt is a process for enforcing compliance with a lawful subpoena and does not assign blame for the flawed and reckless conduct that took place in Operation Fast and Furious. For more information, www.fastandfuriousinvestigation.com. ###
05.15.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – As the 12th round of closed-door negotiations continue, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) today released the draft intellectual property chapter of the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP) on KeepTheWebOPEN.com, while calling on US Trade Representative Ron Kirk to publicly release the latest text U.S. negotiators are seeking to include in the agreement. TPP is being negotiated by the United States, Australia, Brunei, Chile, Malaysia, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore and Vietnam, but because the Obama Administration has kept citizens, many-stakeholders and Congress in the dark, little is known about the intellectual property (IP) rights chapter of TPP beyond rumors and this February 2011 U.S. draft proposal. Click here for the TPP Intellectual Property Chapter "At a time when the American people and Internet users all around the world are rightfully wary of any closed-door negotiations that could adversely impact their ability to freely and openly access the Internet, the Obama Administration continues to pursue a secretive, closed-door negotiating process for the Trans Pacific Partnership," Issa said. "I have decided to publish the intellectual property rights chapter of TPP in Madison so that the public can provide input to those negotiating this agreement, and to push this Administration - and the federal government as a whole - to be open, transparent and inclusive when it comes to international intellectual property rights agreements that have potentially serious consequences for the Internet community." Learn more at http://keepthewebopen.com/tpp. ###
05.09.2012	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Upon Tuesday evening's unanimous passage of the Brian A. Terry Memorial Act , H.R. 2668, from the United States Senate, Representative Darrell Issa (R-CA), the bill's sponsor, offered the following statement: "All of Washington mourned with the Terry family when Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry gave his life in the line of duty in 2010. Today we stand just as unified for the purpose of honoring and preserving his legacy. "The unanimous support with which the Brian A. Terry Memorial Act passed the United States Senate is a tribute to Agent Terry's career of service to our country and to the Border Patrol's distinguished history of intrepidity and sacrifice for the sake of homeland security. "We recognize that Agent Terry's untimely passing is a tragedy that never should have happened. And while we continue to pursue answers regarding the circumstances surrounding his death, we resolve that his example of bravery and sacrifice will never be forgotten – especially in the city of Bisbee, AZ where he served." The Brian A. Terry Memorial Act, sponsored by Issa with nearly seventy bipartisan cosponsors, will rename the United States Border Patrol Station in Bisbee, AZ to honor the memory of Agent Brian Terry who was gunned down in the line of duty by heavily-armed drug smugglers on December 14, 2010. Terry died the following day. Weapons found at the scene were connected to the Department of Justice's reckless Fast & Furious Operation. The Brian A. Terry Memorial Act will be transmitted from the Senate to President Barack Obama for his signature, upon which time the measure will become law. # # #
04.25.2012	WASHINGTON, DC — On a unanimous voice vote, the Digital Accountability and Transparency Act (H.R. 2146) was today approved by the House of Representatives. Watch Issa, Cummings, Former Recovery Board Chairman Devaney & Tim O'Reilly Break Down DATA "Today's strong bipartisan showing is a major win for transparency and accountability," said Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif., chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and the bill's lead Republican sponsor. "The lavish spending by GSA in Las Vegas has again highlighted the extent of waste and excess that occurs in government. The DATA Act will create accountability by exposing waste and allowing Americans to examine the details of how the federal is spending their tax dollars." The legislation's lead cosponsor is Rep. Elijah Cummings, D-Md., ranking member of the Oversight Committee. The bill establishes strong reporting standards for federal spending information - building upon the proven "Recovery Operations Center" and the landmark USASpending.gov - to build a single electronic system that combines spending information from agencies, the Treasury, and recipients of federal funds. The DATA Act also caps non-military federal travel spending at 80% of FY2010 levels and limits the number and size of taxpayer funded government conferences- cutting travel spending by hundreds of million per year. ###
04.23.2012	WASHINGTON, DC -The House of Representatives, on Wednesday, will consider and vote on H.R. 2146, the Digital Accountability and Transparency Act (DATA). The bill establishes strong reporting standards for federal spending information - building upon the proven "Recovery Operations Center" and the landmark USASpending.gov - to build a single electronic system that combines spending information from agencies, the Treasury, and directly from recipients of federal funds. The DATA Act has been advanced by the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, who just last week held a high-profile hearing looking into lavish spending at a 2010 General Services Administration conference, and a culture of wasteful spending that goes back several years. "Now, more than ever, the American people demand real accountability of how their tax dollars are being spent," said committee chairman Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif. "It's clear from our investigation into GSA's lavish conference spending that accountability and increased transparency is needed. Through the bipartisan DATA Act, we can improve our oversight of federal funds by mandating clear, consistent reporting standards." "I firmly believe that the federal government must be held accountable for how it spends taxpayers' hard-earned money," said committee ranking member Rep. Elijah Cummings, D-Md. "The DATA Act builds on the rigorous reporting required for Stimulus Act spending, and President Obama's Executive Order establishing the Government Accountability and Transparency Board, and will give legislative teeth to increased transparency and accountability over federal spending across government." ###
03.27.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif, chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, and Oversight and Government Reform Committee Ranking Minority Member Rep. Elijah Cummings, D-MD., yesterday introduced the Federal Information Security Amendments Act of 2012 (HR 4257). This legislation enhances the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) of 2002 by improving the framework for ensuring security over information technology systems that support the federal government. It establishes a mechanism for stronger oversight through a focus on automated and continuous monitoring of cybersecurity threats and the implementation of regular threat assessments. "This bill is the result of a bipartisan collaborative effort with public and private sector partners to solve our nation's information security crisis," said Chairman Issa. "Congress understands that some of our country's greatest security threats come from cyber attacks. FISMA had become a compliance activity, even at times when compliance appeared to supersede security. " "Last week, the head of U.S. Cyber Command, General Alexander, testified that securing our nation against cyber threats is one of our biggest national security challenges," said Ranking Member Cummings. "This bipartisan legislation will ensure that federal agencies use a risk-based approach to defend against cyber attacks and protect government information from being compromised by our adversaries." Currently, federal agencies are struggling with cyber-security threats, and this update to FISMA will incorporate the last decade of technological innovation, while also addressing FISMA shortcomings realized over the past years. The bill in its draft form was released on www.KeepTheWebOpen.com last Friday allowing the public to view legislation, suggest changes, and vote on the changes suggested by others. Chairman Issa will continue to take input through the MADISON platform on the site as the bill moves forward. FISMA 2012 is the product of years of House Oversight Committee fact-finding and close consultation with key stakeholders on the front lines of government and private-sector cybersecurity efforts – including public full committee and subcommittee hearings. ###
03.26.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa today issued the following statement on President Obama's comments to Russia President Dmitri Medvedev on request to delay national security matters until after his re-election: "For all the favors President Obama could have asked of his Russian counterpart – help preventing a nuclear Iran, cutting off support for the regime in Syria, or solidarity on North Korea – he instead asked for patience to work on his re-election. In doing so, President Obama showed himself to be more politician than Commander-in-Chief. "Instead of waiting for 'flexibility,' the President should be candid with the American people about his intentions with Russia after the election. The President's misplaced fixation on politics certainly raises disconcerting questions about the role his campaign is playing in his policy decisions and how far he'll go to get re-elected." # # #
03.23.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif, introduced a draft of the Federal Information Security Amendments Act of 2012 on Madison allowing Americans to view the bill before formal introduction. This draft legislation enhances the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) of 2002 by improving the framework for ensuring security over information technology systems that support the federal government. It establishes a mechanism for stronger oversight through a focus on automated and continuous monitoring of cybersecurity threats and conducting regular threat assessments. "This draft is the culmination of work by the Oversight Committee under both Democratic and Republican leadership," said Rep. Issa. "The draft and underlying strategy includes substantial input from both the private and public sectors. Every day, our nation's information systems are under attack. Congress and the rest of the Federal government must work diligently to prepare better defenses against attacks that continue to grow in both number and complexity." Currently, federal agencies are struggling with cyber-security threats, and this update to FISMA will incorporate the last decade of technological innovation, while also addressing FISMA shortcomings realized over the past years. FISMA had become a compliance activity, even at times when compliance appeared to supersede security. The OPEN Act in its draft form was released on www.KeepTheWebOpen.com allowing the public to view legislation, suggest changes, and vote on the changes suggested by others. The bill is the product of years of House Oversight Committee fact-finding and close consultation with key stakeholders on the front lines of government and private-sector cybersecurity efforts – including public full committee and subcommittee hearings. # # #
03.08.2012	ISSA: JOBS ACT NEEDED TO CURB SENSELESS FEDERAL MICROMANAGEMENT OF AMERICAN ECONOMY, ENTREPRENEURS WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA), Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, made the following remarks today upon the successful passage of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act, H.R. 3606, in the House of Representatives. Issa's Committee oversaw development of three of the bill's pro-growth components. "There are few issues more important to the American people than job creation and economic recovery," Congressman Issa stated. "You wouldn't know it by looking at the President's actions, though. His three-year record of imposing barriers to small business growth in the form of costly ObamaCare mandates, new government red tape, and skyrocketing energy prices has slowed our recovery. In the same time period, 7.14 million working-age Americans gave up on jobs and left the workforce altogether." "In an attempt to micromanage the American economy, he has expanded the federal bureaucracy's reach in every direction and in so doing, has complicated every single decision an American business owner has to make and barricaded many others from investing in economic growth." "Small businesses and American workers deserve every advantage to compete and win in the global marketplace. The JOBS Act will help begin the work of getting government out of their way – the sooner the President signs the JOBS Act, the better." The JOBS Act removes government regulatory barriers that are preventing small businesses from attracting investors and gaining access to capital. Many of the JOBS Act's regulatory targets were identified by Congressman Issa in a series of communications he initiated with Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Schapiro back in March 2011. As a direct result of Issa's review of outdated and redundant SEC rules that impede capital formation without providing substantive protections to investors the JOBS Act includes the following components: The allowance for crowdfunding to enable entrepreneurs to raise capital from a large pool of ordinary American investors; An increase in the SEC's shareholder registration requirement threshold from 500 shareholders to 1,000 shareholders (employees exempted), to encourage investment and spare more American small businesses this bureaucratic burden; and Elimination of the SEC's general solicitation ban that prevents investment opportunities from being marketed to accredited investors in the United States. The JOBS Act also reduces the cost of going public for small businesses which will further expand the potential for American startups to find capital, grow and create jobs, and become the United States' next great success stories. # # #
03.06.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. —Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) today released the following statement regarding President Obama's pledge during a White House news conference to support the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act offered by House Republicans: "Economic recovery and job growth occurs when entrepreneurs and businesses of all sizes invest and take risks to meet future market demands. Supporting these job creators has been at the heart of Congressional Republicans' agenda this Congress, and I am pleased that President Obama has offered his support for the JOBS Act. "Passing this bill will make it easier for firms to seek capital and new investors, to navigate government red tape, and expand to meet their customers' needs. That is a win-win for growing businesses and for our economy." # # #
03.06.2012	Worse Than SOPA & PIPA, ACTA Excluded Both American People and Congress WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) today opened the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA) to the American people and all stakeholders who were excluded during the development of the intellectual property (IP) enforcement agreement. ACTA was negotiated in secret by the Bush and Obama Administrations and attempts to regulate the Internet with potentially serious consequences for consumer privacy, ecommerce and digital innovation. Worse, ACTA appears to be an unconstitutional power grab begun by the Executive Branch to bypass Congress' Constitutional authority over international commerce and intellectual property rights protections. "ACTA represents as great a threat to an open Internet as SOPA and PIPA and was drafted with even less transparency and input from digital citizens," Issa said. "This agreement was negotiated in secret and many of its vague provisions would clearly increase economic uncertainty, while imposing onerous new regulations on job creators, Internet service providers, innovators and individual Americans. As we have learned from the OPEN Act, opening ACTA to taxpayers and stakeholders in Madison will help gather crucial input, while delivering the transparency they deserve." Click Here to Read, Comment On & Edit ACTA in Madison ACTA negotiations began in 2007, with the Obama Administration signing the agreement on October 1, 2011 along with Canada, Japan, Korea, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and Morocco. Now, the Administration is moving forward with implementation – despite both the White House's January 14, 2012 criticism of IP legislation that would harm the internet and erode individual rights and Vice President Joe Biden's vocal opposition to this kind of unconstitutional Executive Branch overreach under a previous Administration. Core problems with ACTA include: No Transparency: ACTA is a multilateral intellectual property agreement that was negotiated in secret, excluding American taxpayers and key stakeholders who would be impacted by it. Despite the fact that ACTA has huge implications for the public, until now few steps have been taken to give the public input into this process. Circumvents Congress & the Constitution: While ACTA carries several provisions that directly affect U.S. trade and intellectual property law, the Bush and Obama Administrations appear to have violated Congress' constitutional authority over policymaking in these areas. Adding insult to constitutional injury, the Administration refuses to even classify ACTA as a treaty, which would then require ratification by the U.S. Senate. Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR) raised these troubling issues in an October 12, 2011 letter to President Obama. Vague & Far-Reaching: Like its domestic counterparts SOPA and PIPA, much of ACTA is vague, with consequences for individuals and stakeholders that could reach far beyond the agreement's original intent. ACTA also contains no safeguards against wrongful cases of intellectual property rights infringement. ###
02.27.2012	Evidence Reveals that Similar Investigative Tactics to Fast and Furious were Used WASHINGTON, D.C. – Chairman Darrell Issa Senator Chuck Grassley today questioned Attorney General Eric Holder about revelations that the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) was aware of straw buying by Manuel Barba during a several month span of which one of the weapons found at the murder scene of Immigrations and Customs Enforcement Officer Jaime Zapata was purchased. In a letter to Holder today, Issa and Grassley wrote that in addition to Otilio and Rafael Osorio and Kelvin Morrison, which they have previously asked about and received non-substantive responses, it appears that another straw purchaser with ties to the Zapata murder was well-known to ATF officials. In their letter, they wrote, "Records indicate that ATF opened a case against Manuel Barba in June 2010,[1] approximately two months before he took possession on August 20, 2010, of the rifle which was later trafficked to Mexico and also used in the murder of Agent Zapata.[2] Additionally, the documents show that ATF had indications in October 2010 that Barba was obliterating serial numbers on weapons, the possession of which would have been a prosecutable offense.[3]" Yet, Barba was not arrested until February 14, 2011. Issa and Grassley have been investigating the actions of the Justice Department and the ATF that allowed gunwalking, guns purchased by known straw buyers who then often transferred the firearms to Mexican Drug Cartels, to occur in at least one ATF field office jurisdiction. One of the major flaws found in the tactics used in Operation Fast and Furious, where gunwalking was known to occur, was the failure to conduct surveillance of individuals known to be trafficking weapons to Mexico, which allowed such firearms to reach the border. Issa and Grassley said that the same irresponsible tactic appears to have been used as the ATF allowed guns to cross the border in Texas. Here is a copy of the text of today's letter from Grassley and Issa, and here is a signed copy of the letter. In addition, here's a signed copy of the October 25, 2011 letter from Grassley and Issa asking about the tactics used in Texas. Also, click here to read Grassley's March 4, 2011 letter and here to read the March 28, 2011 letter. Here is a copy of the Justice Department's response to Grassley's March 28th letter. February 27, 2012 VIA ELECTRONIC TRANSMISSION The Honorable Eric H. Holder, Jr. Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 Dear Attorney General Holder: For almost an entire year, we have been requesting that the Department provide information about the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives' (ATF's) knowledge regarding Otilio Osorio's straw purchasing activities. We are interested in him because he was the straw purchaser of the weapon used in the murder of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Agent Jaime Zapata on February 15, 2011. Letters from Senator Grassley on March 4, 2011, and March 28, 2011 provided documentation that, on September 17, 2010, ATF traced trafficked weapons to Otilio's brother and co-habitant, Ranferi Osorio, as well as the Osorio brothers' next-door neighbor, Kelvin Morrison. Senator Grassley further inquired why these facts did not prompt ATF to conduct a "knock and talk" with these individuals or begin conducting surveillance on them. On November 9, 2010, as part of a Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) investigation, ATF witnessed Otilio and Ranferi Osorio providing 40 weapons with obliterated serial numbers to an undercover ATF informant for the purpose of trafficking the weapons to Mexico. Surprisingly, they were not arrested for another three and a half months. Senator Grassley further inquired why they were not arrested at the time they were observed to be in possession of weapons with obliterated serial numbers, which is a crime. He asked whether ATF or DEA continued to surveil the Osorio brothers between early November and their arrest, following the discovery that Otilio Osorio's weapon was used in the murder of Agent Zapata. Inexplicably, the Department has failed to provide substantive responses to any of these letters, including a subsequent follow-up letter on this matter, sent jointly on October 25, 2011. ATF has tried to distinguish this case from Operation Fast and Furious and to justify its failure to intervene. In one news article on the Osorio brothers, ATF North Texas spokesperson Tom Crowley is quoted as saying: "[T]aking them down and arresting them at that time would have possibly jeopardized that investigation. . . . None of the tactics used in this investigation were anything similar to what was used in Arizona's Fast and Furious, including intentionally walking firearms across the border."[4] Yet failure to conduct surveillance of individuals known to be trafficking weapons to Mexico was a core problem with the tactics used in Fast and Furious. Lack of surveillance is what allowed such firearms to reach the border. The same irresponsible tactic appears to have been used in this matter. Now, news reports indicate that this may have been an issue with a purchaser of another one of the weapons found at Agent Zapata's murder scene.[5] Records indicate that ATF opened a case against Manuel Barba in June 2010,[6] approximately two months before he took possession on August 20, 2010, of the rifle which was later trafficked to Mexico and also used in the murder of Agent Zapata.[7] Additionally, the documents show that ATF had indications in October 2010 that Barba was obliterating serial numbers on weapons, the possession of which would have been a prosecutable offense.[8] At least as of December 13, 2010, ATF also was aware that Barba was still under indictment for a 2006 state case, and thus had been unlawfully receiving firearms while under indictment.[9] However, a warrant was not issued for Barba's arrest in this case until February 14, 2011.[10] To assist us in better understanding of the circumstances leading up to the murder of Agent Zapata, please answer the following questions: Did ATF have any contact with Barba, such as a "knock and talk," between June 7, 2010, when Barba's case was opened, and August 20, 2010, when he received the weapon that would later be used in the murder of Agent Zapata? When did ATF agents first contact Barba in connection with this case? Records indicate Federal Firearms Licensee (FFL) interviews were conducted in this case by early October 2010. When were FFLs first contacted by ATF in this case? What information about Barba or the individuals known to be working with him as straw purchasers was communicated to the FFLs? What cooperation did any FFLs agree to provide ATF in this investigation? Did any FFLs ever provide ATF with advance or contemporaneous (within three days) notice of purchases by the individuals suspected to be working with Barba as straw purchasers? Why was Barba not arrested in October 2010 when ATF obtained audio evidence that Barba was obliterating serial numbers before trafficking weapons to Mexico? Why was Barba not arrested in December 2010 when ATF knew he had been unlawfully receiving firearms from straw purchasers while under indictment? How many weapons were purchased between June 7, 2010, and February 14, 2011, by the straw purchasing ring associated with Barba? How many weapons purchased between June 7, 2010, and February 14, 2011, by the straw purchasing ring associated with Barba were interdicted? Thank you in advance for ensuring your response arrives no later than March 9, 2012. Should you have any questions regarding this letter, please contact Ranking Member Grassley's staff at (202) 224-5225 or Chairman Issa's staff at (202) 225-5074. Sincerely, ___________________________ ___________________________ Darrell Issa, Chairman Charles E. Grassley, Ranking Member Committee on Oversight Committee on the Judiciary & Government Reform United States Senate United States House of Representatives cc: The Hon. B. Todd Jones, Acting DirectorBureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives The Hon. Michele M. Leonhart, AdministratorU.S. Drug Enforcement Administration The Hon. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking MemberU.S. House of Representatives, Committee on Oversight and Government Reform The Hon. Patrick Leahy, ChairmanU.S. Senate, Committee on the Judiciary
02.21.2012	Expands inquiry into failing anti-fraud procedures that allow barred storeowners back into program WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA), in a letter to U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services Kevin Concannon, asked USDA to respond to new findings by Scripps Howard News Service that found pervasive weaknesses in USDA's process for disqualifying and reauthorizing merchants to accept food stamp benefits. The new revelations have led to an expansion of a previous February 6, 2012, request Issa made to Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack about fraud within USDA's food stamp program. "With record numbers of Americans using food stamps, with an annual price tag of $75.3 billion, anything short of rigorous anti-fraud measures will be very costly to taxpayers," wrote Issa in the letter to Concannon. "According to Scripps, a startling number of barred retailers 'disobey the permanent prohibitions and continue to shortchange complicit customers and unwitting taxpayers.' In fact, some retailers have been busted repeatedly – Scripps identified at least 137 merchants that have been disqualified more than once." Scripps Howard News Service reported over the weekend that out of 4,600 retailers who lost their authorization to accept food stamps between January 2006 and July 2011, 1,492 continue to participate in the program. Disqualified owners of stores removed from the program are supposed to face a lifetime ban. According to USDA, food-stamp trafficking by storeowners cost taxpayers $330 million in 2008 alone. Issa's letter to Concannon requests the delivery of relevant documents and a response no later than March 8, 2012. Click here for a copy of Chairman Issa's letter to Under Secretary Concannon. Click here for a copy of the February 6 letter to Secretary Vilsack. ###
02.15.2012	Event to be Webcast Live at 2 PM EST Tomorrow WASHINGTON. D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), Chairman of House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, will join with Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-CA) and technology job creators on Thursday, February 16, 2012 at 2 PM EST to discuss the benefits of protecting public access to unlicensed spectrum and providing the Federal Communications Commission with the flexibility to let American innovators and entrepreneurs use unlicensed spectrum. The event will be webcast live here. Issa, Eshoo and technology job creators will discuss how preserving public access to unlicensed spectrum benefits the U.S. economy. WHAT: Jumpstarting the Unlicensed Internet Economy WHEN: Thursday, February 16, 2012 at 2 PM EST WHERE: Cannon Caucus Room 345, Cannon House Office BuildingWebcast Available Here: http://bit.ly/yeK7WY WHO: Representative Darrell Issa (R-CA)House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Chairman Representative Anna Eshoo (D-CA)House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, Ranking Member Mr. Peter StanforthSpectrum Bridge, Chief Technology Officer Mr. Dan BubbGorge Networks, President Mr. Michael Calabrese (Event Moderator)Wireless Future Program, Director; and Senior Research Fellow with New America's Open Technology Initiative # # #
02.09.2012	Reps. Eshoo and Issa Lead Letter to Members of the Payroll Tax Cut Conference Committee Washington, DC – Today, a bipartisan group of 42 Members of Congress, led by Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) and Darrell Issa (R–CA), released a letter to Conferees on the Payroll Tax Cut Conference Committee urging them to protect public access to unlicensed spectrum. As Congress considers legislation to make more spectrum available for wireless broadband, it's essential that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has the flexibility to make some of the prime "beachfront" spectrum located in the television band available for new and innovative unlicensed services. It's estimated that unlicensed spectrum generates between $16-37 billion each year for the U.S. economy. As a result, it's absolutely essential that the U.S. not close the door on this exciting area of innovation which can help enhance rural broadband coverage, reduce energy costs and pave the way for new technologies that have yet to be invented. In the letter, the Members state that smart spectrum policy "must recognize that both licensed and unlicensed spectrum in the television band maximizes the economic benefits of wireless broadband. With a balanced approach to spectrum policy, we can unlock billions of dollars in private investment, new innovations, job creation, and economic growth." Rep. Eshoo serves as the Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, and Rep. Issa serves as the Chairman of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee. The letter signed by 42 Members is below: February 9, 2012 Dear Chairman Camp and Chairman Baucus: We are writing regarding the possible inclusion of spectrum policy in the extension of the payroll tax legislation. Smart spectrum policy will drive the next generation of wireless broadband, creating new economic opportunities for the telecommunications and technology ecosystem. These provisions will have a dramatic impact on our nation's wireless future and benefit many stakeholders, including public safety, small businesses, educators, and consumers. While there are many important spectrum policy goals, today we're writing to urge you to preserve the Federal Communications Commission's (FCC) flexibility to use some of the "beachfront" spectrum recovered from voluntary incentive auctions for unlicensed use. Some of the most significant innovations in wireless communications, such as Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, were born in spectrum bands with no exclusive license. Collectively, unlicensed devices help generate an estimated $16-37 billion per year for the U.S. economy. Even our nation's largest wireless service providers use unlicensed spectrum to reduce congestion on their network, with experts suggesting that more than one-third of their data traffic today is off-loaded onto Wi-Fi networks. Exploring the use of beachfront spectrum, specifically in the television band, is vital given its ability to penetrate buildings, enhance rural coverage, and carry more data traffic than traditional Wi-Fi. Yet today, within the frequencies best suited for mobile broadband services, there is more than five times as much spectrum available for licensed use as there is for unlicensed use. From Plumas, California to Logan, Ohio, entrepreneurs and small businesses are working with leaders in key sectors of the U.S. economy, such as health care, education and energy to develop wireless hotspots, medical patient monitoring, smart grid and other innovative applications that use unlicensed spectrum found in the television band. Spectrum policy must recognize that both licensed and unlicensed spectrum in the television band maximizes the economic benefits of wireless broadband. With a balanced approach to spectrum policy, we can unlock billions of dollars in private investment, new innovations, job creation, and economic growth. Thank you for considering these views. ###
02.06.2012	Internet Users Improved Six Sections of the Anti-Piracy Legislation WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) today unveiled the crowdsourced sections of the Online Protection & Enforcement of Digital Trade (OPEN) Act at KeepTheWebOPEN.com. Internet users generated improvements to six sections of the OPEN Act, representing the first-ever legislative markup truly open to the American public. Issa and Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR) released a draft version of the OPEN Act in the Madison platform on December 8, 2011, inviting the Internet community to collaborate with Congress on strengthening intellectual property rights protections for American artists and innovators. On January 18th, Issa formally introduced the OPEN Act – including the user-generated improvements – in the U.S. House of Representatives. Issa in Roll Call: "We developed Madison to empower those shut out from the process that produced SOPA and PIPA. It is an ongoing experiment in direct digital democracy, but the introduced version of the OPEN Act is proof that crowdsourcing can deliver better bills and a more accountable government." ###
02.03.2012	PARTS Act will reduce cost to insurers and drivers for auto collision and replacement parts WASHINGTON, D.C. —Yesterday Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA 49) introduced legislation to expand consumer choice, cut costs paid by insurers and drivers, and ensure competition in the automobile replacement part market. The legislation is cosponsored by Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA 16); both representatives serve on the House Judiciary Committee. Known as the Promoting Automotive Repair, Trade, and Sales (PARTS) Act, the bill will set a two-and-a-half year boundary on the exclusivity period for automotive design patents related to so-called alternatively supplied parts and equipment. During this patent protection period, manufacturers of these parts could conduct testing, research and development on a not-for-sale basis without infringing on the patents of the original manufacturer. Auto manufacturers and original parts suppliers currently hold a 14-year exclusivity period for collision repair parts, thereby limiting consumer choices and competition. "Competition is the hallmark of our free market system," Rep. Issa said. "Consumers have dozens of choices in electronics, food, service, clothing and other products—this same array of choices, across all price points, should also extend to automotive repair parts." Full text and additional legislative information is available here. # # #
02.02.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. —Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement on the House vote to pass H.R. 1173 the CLASS Act Repeal. The Community Living Assistance Services and Supports (CLASS) program was established as part of President Obama's healthcare act and would have created a voluntary national program to provide insurance coverage to purchase community living services for disabled Americans and those requiring long-term care. The program, however, immediately faced criticism from government and healthcare experts regarding the program's viability and financial solvency and risk to taxpayers. "Over the last year, members of the bicameral repeal CLASS working group have worked to point out to the Administration and to the public the flaws of this program. "Our message was clear: the Obama Administration created the CLAAS program as an accounting gimmick to offset the staggering costs of its health care program. "Congress has the responsibility to protect taxpayers from failed and ill-conceived programs—today's vote to repeal the CLASS program provisions is a step towards reversing one of the many flaws in the President's health care law. Job creators across the country have raised questions about the cost, implementation and red tape of the health care law, and our work continues to ensure that these job creators and taxpayers are not unfairly punished by a law that was rushed into place without adequate transparency or public review." # # #
02.01.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. - On a bi-partisan vote of 309-117 the House of Representatives approved H.R. 3835, a bill to extend the pay freeze for Members of Congress and federal employees by one year. The bill was introduced by Rep. Sean Duffy, R-Wisc. Rep. Dennis Ross, R-Fla., chairman of the House Oversight Subcommittee on the Federal Workforce, U.S. Postal Service, and Labor Policy led debate on the House Floor. House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., issued the following statement applauding the bill's passage: "The Oversight Committee has been reviewing federal compensation issues since March of last year, and has worked to bring forward solutions addressing the inequity between compensation of federal employees and private sector workers who make comparably less. I congratulate Rep. Duffy for introducing this bill and Chairman Ross for his steadfast leadership on this issue at the Subcommittee on the Federal Workforce. This legislation offers important, justified, and bipartisan solutions to save taxpayers money. I urge President Obama and the Senate to embrace this bipartisan cost savings measure." On Monday, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office issued a study, which found that total compensation for federal employees was 16% greater than for comparable private sector employees. The CBO study also found that: Benefits were 48% more costly for federal employees than private sector employees. Highly-skilled employees (with a professional degree or PhD) were the only employees compensated less than their private sector counterparts. Taking benefits out of the equation, federal employees made 2% more than private sector workers at large companies and 9% more than private sector workers overall. Chairman Ross' subcommittee first studied this issue at a March 2011 hearing, leading the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee to recommend the extension of the pay freeze. The House had previously approved an extension of the pay freeze twice, first in the FY2012 budget resolution and then again in the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act approved in December. ###
01.25.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. —Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement tonight regarding President Obama's State of the Union Address: "The President tonight outlined a laundry list of popular programs without regard to what they cost and his own record in office. "He has failed to deliver on economic growth promises, has squandered $800 billion in stimulus funds, vetoed jobs and affordable domestic energy bills passed by Congress. What is clear is that he is pursuing a partisan class-warfare agenda aimed at dividing the American people. "The American people deserve an efficient, effective government that works for them. I am ready to work with the President to cut the regulations and red tape that make it harder for workers and businesses to succeed; to confront the irresponsible overspending by this President and preceding Administrations, and to keep America competitive in a global economy." # # #
01.20.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – In response to the announcement that the Senate vote on PIPA will be postponed, as well as the announcement that the House's SOPA markup will be postponed, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) today made the following statement: "Supporters of the Internet deserve credit for pressing advocates of SOPA and PIPA to back away from an effort to ram through controversial legislation," Issa said. "Over the last two months, the intense popular effort to stop SOPA and PIPA has defeated an effort that once looked unstoppable but lacked a fundamental understanding of how Internet technologies work. "Postponing the Senate vote on PIPA removes the imminent threat to the Internet, but it's not over yet. Copyright infringement remains a serious problem and any solution must be targeted, effective, and consistent with how the Internet works. After inviting all stakeholders to help improve American intellectual property protections, I have introduced the bipartisan OPEN Act with Senator Ron Wyden which can be read and commented on at KeepTheWebOPEN.com. It is clear that Congress needs to have more discussion and education about the workings of the Internet before it moves forward on sweeping legislation to address intellectual property theft on the Internet. I look forward to working with my colleagues and stakeholders to achieve a needed consensus about the way forward." Issa and Senator Ron Wyden co-authored the OPEN Act with the input of the American public through a new Internet application called Madison. Unlike SOPA and PIPA, OPEN strengthens creative ownership protections in America while securing the open, accessible Internet taxpayers deserve. ###
01.18.2012	An effective, targeted solution to online copyright infringement WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif, officially introduced H.R. 3782, the Online Protection & Enforcement of Digital Trade Act in the U.S. House of Representatives. This bill delivers stronger intellectual property rights for American artists and innovators while protecting the open, accessible Internet Americans deserve. This bipartisan, bicameral bill protects American artists and innovators through the International Trade Commission (ITC), by applying due process to investigate intellectual property infringement claims against foreign "rogue" websites and cuts off funding to sites found to be willfully and primarily trafficking infringed material. Senator Ron Wyden, D-Ore., has introduced the OPEN Act in the U.S. Senate. "OPEN is a targeted, effective solution to the problem of foreign, rogue websites stealing from American artists and innovators," said Issa. "Today's Internet blackout has underscored the flawed approach taken by SOPA and PIPA to the real problem of intellectual property infringement. OPEN is a smarter way to protect taxpayers' rights while protecting the Internet." Issa and Wyden released the draft OPEN Act at www.KeepTheWebOpen.com last year, using the Madison platform to open up the legislative process to taxpayers for the first time. Since then, OPEN has received more than 150 substantive comments and crowdsourced suggested improvements, many of which were included in the formal bill introduction. To date, nearly 300,000 Americans have visited the website. The legislation is supported by original cosponsors Rep. Spencer Bachus (R-AL), Rep. John Campbell (R-CA), Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Rep. Mike Doyle (D-PA), Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN), Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Rep. Blake Farenthold (R-TX), Rep. Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Rep. Mike Honda (D-CA), Rep. Tim Johnson (R-IL), Rep. Jim Langevin (D-RI), Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Rep. Doris Matsui (D-CA), Rep. Patrick McHenry (R-NC), Rep. George Miller (D-CA), Rep. Jared Polis (D-CO), Rep. Dennis Ross (R-FL), Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI), Rep. Jackie Speier (D-CA), Rep. Pete Stark (D-CA), Rep. Mike Thompson (D-CA), and Rep. Lynn Woolsey (D-CA). Upon the introduction of the OPEN Act, these original cosponsors offered the following statements: Rep. Spencer Bachus "The Government should not be in the business of censoring speech. The Federal Government has no right to censor the Internet." Rep. John Campbell "I strongly support the OPEN Act, as it is legislation that will effectively crack down on rogue foreign websites and protect American consumers, while protecting and preserving the innovative and job-creating engine that is the Internet." Rep. Jason Chaffetz "SOPA threatens our cyber security, undermines freedom of speech, and chills innovation in one of the few sectors of our economy that is actually working. While I understand and appreciate the need to protect intellectual property, SOPA is a massive and inappropriate overreach. Instead, I strongly support the OPEN Act. This bi-partisan legislation addresses the problem of online piracy without causing collateral damage to the Internet as SOPA would." Rep. Peter DeFazio "As written, SOPA and PIPA would jeopardize online freedom and grant corporations and the federal government unprecedented power to censor the Internet. I support the OPEN Act because it targets the people breaking the law without threatening the freedom of every other Internet user." Rep. Lloyd Doggett "The threat to an open Internet posed by Rep. Lamar Smith's SOPA cannot be cleaned up with soap and a wire brush. It should be rejected in favor of a more focused alternative, like the OPEN Act, which addresses legitimate piracy concerns without mandating censorship or blocking websites." Rep. Anna Eshoo "Rogue websites and the pirates behind them represent the hijacking of American genius, and must be stopped. But the Stop Online Piracy Act's (SOPA) overly broad language will seriously hinder the growth of new businesses, new investments, and new jobs. The economic opportunities and innovation created by the Internet and start-ups could be crushed under the weight of SOPA. Today's introduction of the OPEN Act provides us with a framework on how to best protect U.S. intellectual property rights, and I'm proud to support it." Rep. Blake Farenthold "An open internet is a marketplace for ideas that encourages innovation and economic growth. A free and open Internet gives everyone an audience for the free flow of ideas, it is the soap box of the 21st Century for political discourse exemplifying the American value of free speech. Social media is a gateway to friends and loved ones and puts new business opportunities at our fingertips. The internet is our newest frontier and must be free from oppressive government regulation." Rep. Mike Honda "Throughout the public debate for the Stop Online Piracy Act and the Protect IP Act, I have often stated that at the heart of this issue are fundamental questions about what the internet and free speech means to Americans, intellectual property rights holders, and our economy; these questions are too important to haphazardly rush through Congress without a full and open debate. No one denies that copyright infringement and piracy are serious problems. What deserves a full debate are the protections that legitimate sites should have and by what method we expose criminals while allowing lawful businesses and people, like the constituents in my District, to continue to innovate in ways that change the way we look at the world. That is why I proudly support the OPEN Act. Not only for how it is crafted, properly targeting and defining rogue actors without putting innovation in danger, but also the way in which it was crafted: in a full open forum that has allowed for robust debate. It is my sincere hope that the introduction of this bill represents a critical turning point in this debate, where diverse groups of stakeholders come together and thoroughly work on a solution." Rep. Tim Johnson "It is the right of every American to be compensated and receive payment for their efforts, whether they are artists, manufacturers, or any other type of business. While the protection of intellectual property in any form is a necessary function of government, these bills do not solve the problem of privacy, do not fully address the issue, and are not supported by the American public or the majority of stake holders in this issue. Simply put, these measures add unnecessary regulators to the federal bureaucracy and in the long-run, don't solve the problem. The Open Act does." Rep. Jim Langevin "We must act to use existing laws and organizations along with new marketing regimes to crack down on digital pirates while fully leveraging a growing market for online content," said Langevin, co-founder of the Congressional Cybersecurity Caucus. "Instead of trying to mitigate security, economic, and Internet freedom concerns with broad, over-reaching technical solutions, I support proposals like this one that seek a middle ground for curbing online piracy while protecting American jobs and innovative technologies that have allowed us to remain the world leader online." Rep. Zoe Lofgren Congress doesn't have to censor the Internet or restrain innovation in order to fight online piracy. The OPEN Act shows there's a better way. It relies on proven remedies—attacking the profit motive for online infringement—without the collateral damage to the Internet that SOPA and PIPA would cause. The OPEN Act has already benefited from a novel legislative experiment, through the solicitation of public comments and revisions at keepthewebopen.com. After the bill's introduction, I look forward to hearing additional constructive feedback and ways to incorporate it as the bill moves forward. Rep. Doris Matsui "While combating online copyright infringement is a goal we all support, SOPA, as it is currently written, would cause substantial harm to American innovation and the economic opportunities created by the Internet ecosystem. Americans increasingly rely on the Internet in many important ways, from looking for a job to taking online education courses, accessing health care, and so forth. Moreover, small businesses and entrepreneurs rely on an open and free Internet to be able to offer services, and to grow and expand their businesses. That is why I am happy to join my colleagues today in introducing the bipartisan OPEN Act, which will ensure the Internet remains open and free to all Americans and enables our innovators to continue to keep our country competitive." Rep. Patrick McHenry "In a society that values creativity and innovation, it's important to protect intellectual property and prevent copyright infringement. The OPEN Act targets online piracy from rogue websites while safeguarding First Amendment rights and ensuring the American tradition of due process." Rep. George Miller "SOPA and PIPA are not the right answer for the future of the Internet, and that is why I oppose them. Our bipartisan bill introduced today – the OPEN Act – can achieve what SOPA would not: crack down on foreign websites that willfully violate copyright laws, without going to the dangerous extremes proposed in the other legislation." Rep. Jared Polis "Unlike SOPA and PIPA, the OPEN Act will effectively combat piracy from foreign websites while preserving Internet freedom. By using a 'follow-the-money' approach we can shut down foreign sites that steal intellectual property while ensuring that the Internet remains an engine of innovation, information and job creation. Without access to capital, these foreign websites will wither and die while the Internet continues to grow and thrive." Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner "As an ardent defender of American intellectual property rights, I am pleased to see the OPEN Act introduced to target rogue sites without destroying Internet infrastructure or crippling legitimate innovation online. Congress must absolutely take the threat of piracy seriously, and this legislation shows we can do so without opening up the floodgates for litigation or limiting freedom of expression." Rep. Mike Thompson "Today, thousands of websites such as Wikipedia and WordPress have gone dark, giving us a glimpse of what it could be like if the overly broad SOPA legislation became law. SOPA would stifle innovation, resulting in fewer new businesses, fewer new investments and fewer new jobs. While online piracy is something we must continually fight, SOPA is the wrong way to do it. That is why I am working with global leaders like Google and Twitter, to instead enact the OPEN Act, which still combats piracy but does so in a way that doesn't let broad government oversight stifle the innovation and creativity that has been a driving force behind the Internet industry's economic success." # # #
01.18.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) today issued the following statement on the blackouts of many popular websites – including Wikipedia, Craigslist, Google and thousands of others– in response to the serious threats to an open Internet and digital innovation in America posed by the Protect Intellectual Property Act (PIPA) and the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA): "The Protect IP Act and SOPA are threats to the openness, freedom, and innovation of the Internet. I applaud the Internet community, including the thousands of blogs and websites that have decided to go dark today, for participating in our democracy and opening up the debate on legislation to the public. "This unprecedented effort has turned the tide against a backroom lobbying effort by interests that aren't use to being told 'no.' I know suspending and changing access to sites was not necessarily an easy decision, but this a responsible and transparent exercise of freedom of speech. I applaud those participating in today's protest for their sturdy defense of American innovation, openness and Internet freedom." The Oversight Committee had originally scheduled a hearing on DNS blocking for today. The hearing was postponed after assurances from Leader Cantor and the removal of DNS blocking provisions from SOPA were made. Even with this alteration, Chairman Issa continues to oppose SOPA as well as PIPA. ###
01.04.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa today announced that U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder has been scheduled to testify on February 2 about the Department of Justice's knowledge of, and response to, gunwalking that occurred in Operation Fast and Furious. The Attorney General will be asked to address management deficiencies within the Department that occurred both during and after the conclusion of Operation Fast and Furious. This will include the Department's steadfast refusal to disclose information following the February 4, 2011 letter to Senator Grassley, which the Department has withdrawn because it contained false information denying allegations made by whistleblowers about Operation Fast and Furious. The committee's investigation has found documentation that numerous members of the Justice Department knew the letter to Congress contained false information both before it was sent and later withdrawn. "The Department of Justice's conduct in the investigation of Operation Fast and Furious has been nothing short of shameful," said Chairman Issa. "From its initial denials that nothing improper occurred, to efforts to silence whistleblowers who wanted to tell Congress what really happened, to its continuing refusal to discuss or share documents related to this cover-up, the Justice Department has fought tooth and nail to hide the full truth about what occurred and what senior officials knew. Attorney General Holder must explain or reverse course on decisions that appear to put the careers of political appointees ahead of the need for accountability and the Department's integrity." Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa and Senate Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Chuck Grassley have led the investigation into Operation Fast and Furious. In December 2011, the Justice Department explicitly informed the Committee that it would not deliver subpoenaed documents relating to Operation Fast and Furious created after February 4, 2011. In interviews with committee investigators, senior Justice Department officials who had management responsibilities for Operation Fast and Furious have also refused to answer questions about decisions and conversations that occurred after February 4, 2011. The hearing will occur in 2154 Rayburn House Office Building. The start time has yet to be determined. For more information about the committee's investigation into Operation Fast and Furious, visit the website at www.FastandFuriousinvestigation.com. ###
12.16.2011	Issa Releases SOPA Markup Day 1 Statistics from KeepTheWebOPEN.com WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) today released KeepTheWebOPEN.com web traffic statistics from the first day of the House Judiciary Committee's markup of H.R. 3261, the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA). The data underscore the broad public interest in this thinly-veiled piece of Internet censorship legislation: 138,917 Americans from every state and the District of Columbia viewed the markup. KeepTheWebOPEN.com Analytics: December 15, 2011 • Unique Visits: 157,767 • Visits: 197,726 • Unique Page Views: 219,712 • Page Views: 287,208 • American Visitors: 138,917 • Visitor Countries/Territories of Origin: 150 Last week, Issa and Sen. Ron Wyden (D-OR) unveiled their commonsense alternative to SOPA – the Online Protection and Enforcement of Digital Trace (OPEN) Act. The legislation is supported by U.S. Senators Cantwell, Moran, Warner and Wyden and U.S. Representatives Lofgren, Chaffetz, Campbell, Doggett, Eshoo, Polis and Issa. American Viewers of SOPA Markup at KeepTheWebOPEN.com: December 15, 2011 Total: 138,917 Region, Visits California 18,859 New York 10,476 Texas 9,966 Florida 7,519 Pennsylvania 6,251 Illinois 6,204 Massachusetts 5,052 Ohio 4,937 Michigan 4,603 Washington 4,582 New Jersey 4,445 Virginia 4,229 Georgia 3,692 North Carolina 3,540 Maryland 3,303 Minnesota 2,784 Indiana 2,752 Arizona 2,652 Oregon 2,407 Wisconsin 2,402 Missouri 2,186 Colorado 2,096 Tennessee 1,998 Connecticut 1,829 Kentucky 1,703 District of Columbia 1,311 Louisiana 1,262 Alabama 1,216 Oklahoma 1,206 Nevada 1,167 Iowa 1,164 South Carolina 1,141 Utah 1,116 Kansas 1,093 Nebraska 803 New Hampshire 756 Arkansas 680 Rhode Island 541 Idaho 538 West Virginia 537 Mississippi 509 Maine 485 New Mexico 472 Vermont 391 Hawaii 378 Delaware 343 Alaska 296 Montana 288 North Dakota 269 South Dakota 234 Wyoming 133 (not set) 121 # # #
12.15.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. - In his final "Chairman's Corner" column, Earl Devaney, top watchdog on the Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board and head of the President's Government Accountability and Transparency Board, endorsed legislation that would take his successful Recovery Board model and expand it government-wide to combat waste, fraud and abuse. Devaney wrote: "There is bi-partisan legislation now in the Congress — it's called the Digital Accountability and Transparency Act, or DATA Act — that could accomplish this mission. But the reform bill faces an uphill battle, primarily because some in the bureaucracy prefer the status quo — a hodgepodge of data collection and display sites that, frankly, makes no sense at all unless you believe your government should confuse you." The DATA Act has been introduced in the House by Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif. and in the Senate by Sen. Mark Warner, D-Va. Devaney signaled his commitment to continue to advocate for the DATA Act: "I stand ready in retirement to do all that I can to help see this reform realized, including testifying before Congress about the merits of the DATA Act." Devaney continued: "But, really, in the end, it's up to the taxpayers — meaning you, the readers — to force change in your government. I guess it all depends on how badly you want to know how the government spends your money — more than $3.5 trillion in fiscal 2011." Additionally, Devaney's Government Accountability and Transparency Board (GATB) released a report to President Obama outlining three concrete steps to make transparent Federal spending information. The recommendations mirror the provisions of the DATA Act. "The praise and the pledge of support from a long-serving taxpayer watchdog like Earl Devaney, who has built the most modern waste and fraud fighting system the federal government has ever deployed, will go a long way towards moving the DATA Act forward." Issa said. "Mr. Devaney's comments and the GATB report both confirm that we're on the right track. We need an accountability framework in the federal government that allows us to compare spending across agency silos and reduce duplicative efforts. As we look ahead to tightening budgets, these reforms will be crucial to help us root-out waste and inefficient use of taxpayer dollars." Sen. Warner said. The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee approved the DATA Act on a unanimous bipartisan vote earlier this year. The Senate version has been referred to the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. # # #
12.15.2011	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Representative Darrell Issa (R-CA) today offered the following statement on the successful passage of the Brian A. Terry Memorial Act of 2011, H.R. 2668, from the House of Representatives by a unanimous vote. The Act, sponsored by Issa with nearly seventy cosponsors, will rename the U.S. Border Patrol Station in Bisbee, AZ to honor the memory of Agent Brian Terry who was gunned down in the line of duty by heavily-armed drug smugglers on December 14, 2010. He died the following day, December 15. Weapons found at the scene were connected to the Department of Justice's reckless Fast & Furious Operation. "The overwhelming support with which the Brian A. Terry Memorial Act passed the House of Representatives is a tribute to Agent Terry's life of service and to the Border Patrol's distinguished history of protecting America's homeland. "While many questions remain unanswered regarding the circumstances surrounding Agent Terry's death, one thing is certain; he gave his life in defense of our country. This, the one year anniversary of Agent Terry's passing, is a reminder of his sacrifice and of the risk his fellow agents take daily on our behalf." The Brian A. Terry Memorial Act of 2011 is awaiting action by the Senate. # # #
12.13.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – House Judiciary Committee Member Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement on introduction of a manager's amendment to H.R. 3261, the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA). Issa will formally introduce alternative, bicameral and bipartisan legislation Wednesday. Learn more at KeepTheWebOPEN.com: "The manager's amendment retains the fundamental flaws of its predecessor by blocking Americans' ability to access websites, imposing costly regulation on web companies and giving Attorney General Eric Holder's Department of Justice broad new powers to police the internet." ###
12.08.2011	Launch website providing an unprecedented opportunity for members of the public and stakeholders to participate in the legislative process WASHINGTON, D.C. - Unveiling a proposal that both fights the unauthorized sale of digital goods and protects Internet security, commerce and speech, U.S. Senator Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and U.S. Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) today released a draft text of legislation that would use trade laws to address the flow of infringing digital goods into the United States. The draft legislation is based on the broad legislative framework that U.S. Senators Cantwell, Moran, Warner and Wyden and U.S. Representatives Lofgren, Chaffetz, Campbell, Doggett, Eshoo, Polis, and Issa released last week. The Online Protection and Enforcement of Digital Trade (OPEN) Act is now available at www.keepthewebOPEN.com, where visitors will have an unprecedented opportunity to review the legislation, submit comments, suggest edits and even ask questions about the legislation with a new tool called Madison. Interested members of the public, industry and advocacy organizations and even those supporting alternative approaches to protecting IP are invited to visit the site and offer feedback. Senator Wyden and Congressman Issa say that the site's discussion will provide "invaluable" feedback as they work to finalize the legislation. "Building on the International Trade Commission's existing IP expertise and authority makes it possible to go after legitimate cases of IP abuse without doing irreparable harm to the Internet. It also just makes sense," said Senator Wyden. "It is our hope that proponents of other approaches won't just dismiss our proposal, but will instead take this opportunity to engage us on the substance. Yes, IP infringement is a problem, but the Internet has become such an important part of our economy and our way of life that it is essential for us to get the policies that shape its future right." "Butchering the internet is not a way forward for America," said Rep. Issa. "The OPEN Act empowers owners of intellectual property by targeting overseas infringers while protecting the rights of lawful Internet entrepreneurs and users. The Internet is one of the fastest growing sectors of our economy, keeping it open is critical to job creation and our economic recovery." The OPEN Act would combat the flow of infringing digital goods into the United States by expanding the International Trade Commission's existing authority to enforce copyright and trademark infringement as it currently applies to the import of physical goods. While downloading a movie from a foreign-registered site is akin to importing a good from a foreign company, U.S. trade laws have failed to keep pace with the digital economy and have yet to extend the protections that U.S. rightsholders enjoy in the physical world to the online world. The OPEN Act would expand those protections and empower U.S. rightsholders to petition the ITC to investigate cases of illegal digital imports just as they currently petition the ITC to investigate infringement cases involving physical goods. While complex and difficult issues would take the ITC time to investigate and resolve, investigations into simple and obvious cases, like the "worst-of-the-worst foreign rogue websites," could be handled in a matter of days. In all cases, however the ITC would create a transparent and adversarial process in which all parties would have an opportunity to be heard and IP rules would be consistently applied. In the event that an ITC investigation finds that a foreign-registered website is "primarily" and "willfully" infringing on the IP rights of a U.S. rights holder, the commission would issue a cease and desist order that would compel payment processors (like Visa and Paypal) and online advertising providers to cease doing business with the foreign sites in question. This would cut off financial incentives for illicit activity and deter these unfair imports from reaching the U.S. market. Unlike other legislation being advanced in Congress, the OPEN Act would not undermine the structure of the Internet by interfering in the Domaine Name System (DNS) and would target only sites "primarily" and "willfully" engaging in infringement. By employing such a clear and targeted definition of infringement, the OPEN Act will ensure that only legitimate infringement cases are pursued and that sites engaged in free speech or the fair use of content do not become collateral damage. To review the OPEN Act with Madison and learn more about how compares with other approaches to protecting intellectual property visit: www.keepthewebOPEN.com. ###
12.07.2011	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Representative Darrell Issa (R-CA) today offered this statement on the successful passage of the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny Act (REINS Act), H.R. 10, from the House of Representatives with a bipartisan vote of 241–184. The REINS Act, cosponsored by Issa, will help restore transparency and accountability to the federal regulatory process. "The American people want the lights turned on in their government so they can see how decisions are being made. That pursuit of transparency extends to federal regulation," Representative Issa stated. "The REINS Act will restore much-needed openness and accountability to the heavy-handed regulatory process that inexcusably costs the American economy over one trillion dollars each year. "Elected leaders should have to know the full cost government's bright ideas will pose on small businesses and job creators long before taxpayers are made to foot the bill. But today politicians are protected from taking ownership of bad government policies by a system that allows unelected federal bureaucrats to legislate anonymously from within government agencies. By requiring a rigorous public vetting process for regulations that pose a significant barrier to job creation, the REINS Act will impose quality control on government rule-making and empower American taxpayers with the ability to hold officials accountable. "Maintaining the current broken regulatory process will do nothing to lift economic burdens from our private sector. When it comes to job-killing federal regulations, the buck should stop with the President and Congress. The REINS Act will see that it does." The REINS Act will require every regulation proposed by a federal agency and scored with an economic impact of $100 million or more to go before the House of Representatives and Senate for an up-or-down vote. Without Congressional approval and the subsequent signature of the President, these "major rules" cannot be forced upon American job creators. Now that it has passed through the House of Representatives, the REINS Act will proceed to the Senate for consideration. Representative Issa is a champion for America's small business entrepreneurs and a proponent of broad federal regulatory reform through www.AmericanJobCreators.com. According to the government's own Small Business Administration, the United States Economy is sacrificing $1.75 trillion each year toward the cost of complying with government regulations. In addition, the Small Business Administration reports small businesses pay an average of $10,585 per employee to satisfy the requirements of federal regulators. # # #
12.05.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., today announced an investigation into the Drug Enforcement Agency's alleged laundering of millions of dollars in Mexican drug cartel money. The New York Times reported that the DEA employed similar tactics with money laundering as were seen in ATF's Operation Fast and Furious, where guns were allowed into the hands of low level straw purchasers in hopes that they would lead to drug kingpins. In today's letter to Attorney General Eric Holder, Chairman Issa states "The existence of such a program again calls your leadership into question. The managerial structure you have implemented lacks appropriate operational safeguards to prevent the implementation of such dangerous schemes. The consequences have been disastrous." This news comes as Attorney General Holder is scheduled to appear before the House Judiciary Committee this Thursday to testify on Operation Fast and Furious. Read the letter to Attorney General Holder here. # # #
12.02.2011	WASHINGTON. D.C. – U.S. Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista), Chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, released the following statement about a phone call and suspicious item left outside the Vista, California, 49thCongressional District Office earlier today: "Shortly after 1 pm PST today, my district office received a phone call. During this call, a staff member was told that something had been left outside that would explode. My district office staff immediately contacted the San Diego County Sheriff's office and was thereafter evacuated from the office along with other occupants of the building. The phone call followed a protest at my district office of individuals associated with MoveOn.org and Occupy North County as well as individuals participating in a counter protest. "I understand the San Diego County Sheriff's Office has determined that the item left behind does not pose an actual threat. All staff members who were working in the office today are safe and I understand no other individuals have been harmed in this incident. "I deeply appreciate the efforts of those from the San Diego County Sheriff's office and the Vista Fire Department who responded to this incident. I will certainly assist them, as requested, as they continue their investigation of what happened and who is responsible." Rep. Issa's Congressional District office is located at 1800 Thibodo Rd. in Vista, California. As the House of Representatives was in session today, Rep. Issa is currently in Washington, D.C. ###
12.02.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Darrell Issa released the following statement ontoday's U.S. Department of Labor report that American job creators added 120,000 jobs to the economy in November: "Today's employment report underscores the job-creating potential of our economy, despite the increased burdens imposed by the Obama Administration. Far too many of our neighbors still cannot find jobs, far too many of our families are struggling to make ends meet and far too many of our small businesses are striving to stay afloat in a sea of Washington red tape and rising costs. Easing these government-imposed burdens is House Republicans' number one priority, yet more than 20 job-supporting bills we have passed sit idle in a do-nothing Senate. "Our workers and job creators deserve better from their government. That's why House Republicans are listening to the real job-creation experts – small business owners and entrepreneurs across the country – via AmericanJobCreators.com. Their message is clear: give us a level playing field and economic certainty, and we will put America back to work one new job at a time. We will continue to do uphold our end of the bargain by crafting smarter regulations, combating the Obama Administration's disturbing class-warfare rhetoric and delivering a stable economy in which local businesses can succeed, grow and hire." ###
11.11.2011	Congressman Darrell Issa today released the following statement in observance of Veterans Day: "November 11 is set aside as a time for Americans to honor the men and women of our armed forces who have answered our country's call to serve, and to commemorate with solemn pride the heroism of those whose service required the ultimate sacrifice. We will not forget that our lives and our liberty are maintained, even in this moment, by their collective ranks. "America's men and women in uniform have an uncommon understanding of what liberty costs. They serve in our Air Force, Army, Coast Guard, Navy, and Marine Corps because they believe in what America stands for - the ideals of freedom, equality, and opportunity. And they know that securing those ideals for their families, for their children, and for generations to come requires sacrifices in the present. It is a sign of blessing that America is home to a caliber of people willing to accept those stakes. "Throughout the world and since our founding, the promise of freedom has beckoned men and women to give of themselves and be part of the American story. Nowhere was this patriotism more evident than in San Diego this week when a group of active duty military servicemembers, many of whom have served multiple combat tours overseas, were sworn in as citizens of the United States aboard the U.S.S. Midway. I was there. And as I congratulated these veterans on their achievement, I was struck by the fact that when these men and women took their oath to support and defend the Constitution of the United States, they did so with the hope that one day the liberty it guarantees would be theirs. We must never forget the significance of their unique sacrifice for our nation. "Too many take for granted what America's veterans and their families have intrepidly labored to uphold. And on this day, especially, we share the duty of setting that right. "To those men and women who have served in uniform themselves, thank you. Yours is an example future generations must follow. To those whose family members are among our military ranks, our gratitude is yours as well. We understand that the oath taken by your loved ones becomes yours too, and that your service and sacrifice - while often unsung - are critical in the completion of every successful United States military mission. And to all others who support our troops and the good work they do, I encourage you to make known your appreciation today and point the eyes of our young people toward the brave warriors throughout our history who've stood watch - and do so even now - as guardians of freedom." # # #
11.09.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa today pressed Department of Justice Assistant Attorney General for Legislative Affairs Ronald Weich for documents and other information related to a false statement Weich made to Congress regarding gun walking that took place in the reckless gun smuggling investigation known as Operation Fast and Furious. According to agents with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) "walking" guns occurs when agents or officials intentionally allow known criminals to leave the observation that occurs during a controlled law enforcement operation with weapons. On February 4, 2011, Weich stated the following in letter to Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA) who had asked if allegations that officials had intentionally allowed criminals to guns had been "walked" in Operation Fast and Furious: "ATF makes every effort to interdict weapons that have been purchased illegally and prevent their transportation to Mexico." Evidence gathered during the course of the congressional investigation into Operation Fast and Furious has shown that this statement was untrue – ATF, in allowing guns to walk, did not make every effort to interdict them and prevent their transfer to Mexico. Evidence gathered in the investigation has also shown that senior Justice Department officials knew at the time Weich made his statement in February that it was untrue. "Mr. Weich, as you are well aware, it is a crime to knowingly make false statements to Congress," Chairman Issa writes in his letter to Weich. "As DOJ's principal liaison to Congress, we rely on you to be straight with the facts. You have not been, and so your credibility on this issue has been seriously eroded. Whether it is the case that you were fed a lie and faithfully repeated it in a letter to Congress, or whether it is the case that you took the initiative to lie to Congress yourself, you are responsible for the contents of letters that bear your signature." Chairman Issa's letter demands a complete list of individuals who helped prepare the February 4, 2011, letter to Senator Grassley as well as all documents relating to the preparation of that letter referring or relating to the development of DOJ's response to Senator Grassley's January 27, 2011 request for information. Click here for a copy of Chairman Issa's letter to Assistant Attorney General Weich Click here for a copy of Assistant Attorney General Weich's February 4 letter to Senator Grassley ###
11.07.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. —House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) today issued the following statement on the release of a new Department of Energy Inspector General report documenting the departments' failure to manage a $152 million stimulus project resulting in delays and wasted funds: "Inspector General Friedman's report underscores what he told the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform last week: the Obama Administration's stimulus and subsequent loan/grant programs forced too much money into a system ill-equipped to manage it. Instead of lowering unemployment, the Energy Department's efforts to play venture capitalist with stimulus funds have resulted in enormous waste and abuse of taxpayer dollars." A link to the complete report from the Inspector General is available here. # # #
11.02.2011	WASHINGTON - House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) today announced the introduction of the Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act (H.R. 3289). The legislation will strengthen provisions of the Whistleblower Protection Act, originally enacted in 1989, for federal government employees who expose abuse, mismanagement, or criminal activity in federal agencies and programs. Rep. Elijah Cummings, D-Md., Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, is an original co-sponsor of the legislation, as are Rep. Todd Platts, R-Pa., and Rep. Chris Van Hollen, D-Md., who sponsored whistleblower protection enhancement legislation last congress. Similar legislation was approved by the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee last month. You can read a copy of the House legislation here. "Whistleblowers play critical roles in exposing wrongdoing in government," said Issa."Federal employees who discover waste, abuse and mismanagement in their agency need to be able to alert agency leaders and Congress without fear of reprisal from supervisors, and within the confines of the law. This legislation establishes new protections for those who seek lawful ways to address abuse of taxpayer dollars." When enacted, the legislation will: close judicially-created loopholes in existing whistleblower protection law; extend whistleblower protection rights to some 40,000 airport baggage screeners; increase avenues for intelligence community whistleblowers to safely and legally expose waste, fraud and abuse at intelligence agencies; create specific protection in the law for scientific freedom; ensure a permanent anti-gag statute to neutralize classifications like "classifiable," "sensitive but unclassified," "sensitive security information" and other poorly defined security labels; establish consistency with other remedial employment laws; strengthen the Office of Special Counsel's ability to seek disciplinary accountability against those who retaliate, and provides the OSC with authority to file friend of the court briefs in support of whistleblower rights cases appealed from the administrative level; create a pilot program to extend whistleblower protection to non-defense contractors. The legislation will be considered at a business meeting of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee Thursday November 3rd at 9:30 a.m. For more information, visit http://oversight.house.gov. # # #
10.26.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman Darrell Issa and Senator Chuck Grassley are pressing for additional information into the murder of Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agent Jaime Zapata and the tactics used while conducting surveillance on known straw purchasers, raising concerns similar to policies of Operation Fast and Furious out of the Phoenix office. The letter explains the inconsistent statements by the Justice Department regarding Otilio Osorio, his brother Ranferi Osorio, and Kelvin Morrison. The three straw purchasers were known to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, or ATF, long before one of the guns purchased by the brothers was linked to the murder of Agent Zapata. To make matters worse, Grassley and Issa wrote in their letter that documents indicate the ATF failed for more than three months to create a Report of Investigation on the November 9 transfer of firearms between the brothers and Morrison and a confidential informant, witnessed by ATF agents. The report was finally written on February 25, 2011—the same day the ATF received the report tracing the Zapata murder weapon back to the purchase by Otilio Osorio. Grassley and Issa said that documenting investigative steps three months after the fact and only after a trace returned to the murder of a federal agent raises red flags about the nature of ATF's investigation. Click here to read a signed copy of today's letter from Grassley and Issa. Also, click here to read Grassley's March 4, 2011 letter and here to read the March 28, 2011 letter. Here is a copy of the Justice Department's latest response. # # #
10.21.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Members of the Bicameral Repeal CLASS Working Group sent a letter October 20 to Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) Kathleen Sebelius reiterating earlier questions about her knowledge of the flawed financial structure of the controversial Community Living Assistance Services and Supports (CLASS) program, which was created in President Obama's health care law. Members of the House/Senate group also asked Sebelius for her explanation about conflicting statements made by HHS officials regarding the program's future. For over a year before CLASS became law, private sector and government actuaries, as well as members of what would later become the CLASS Working Group, raised concerns that the program's unsustainable structure created false savings in the health care law and put taxpayers at risk. The Working Group's recent investigation also revealed that top HHS officials raised similar concerns three months before the president's health care law was signed. Last week, Secretary Sebelius backtracked from her previous comments that the program could be made viable. She announced in a report released on October 14 that the CLASS program would be terminated, citing the lack of "a viable path forward for CLASS implementation." According to the report, the Secretary of HHS lacks the legal authority to make certain structural changes to the program to make it viable. "CLASS was flawed from inception and most likely included in the president's health care plan to mask the true cost of the law. This type of fiscally unsound policy is what led to sky-high deficits and chronic over-spending in Washington. The American people deserve a full accounting of the CLASS decision-making process as well as an explanation for the many conflicting reports from Secretary Sebelius and other senior HHS officials about the program's flaws," said members of the Working Group in a joint statement. Members of the Bicameral Repeal CLASS Working Group include: Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA); Rep. Fred Upton (R-MI); Sen. John Thune (R-SD); Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-AL); Sen. Tom Coburn, M.D. (R-OK) Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC); Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-SC); Rep. Joe Pitts (R-PA); Rep. Cliff Stearns (R-FL); Rep. Denny Rehberg (R-MT); Rep. Charles Boustany (R-LA); Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX); and, Rep. Phil Gingrey, M.D. (R-GA). The Repeal Class Working Group report is available here. The group's September letter to Secretary Sebelius is here.
10.14.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Obama Administration announced today it was killing a provision in the President's signature health care reform program because the underlying actuary model is unsustainable. A bicameral coalition said the provision, known as the Community Living Assistance Services and Support (CLASS) Act, was originally included to mask the true budgetary impacts of Obamacare. House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Health Care, District of Columbia, Census and the National Archives Subcommittee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-SC) worked as part of the House and Senate Repeal CLASS Working Group to spotlight the fiscally irresponsible nature of the program. The group released a September 15 report that revealed staff within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) warned that CLASS was unworkable and that senior officials at HHS may have ignored warning signs. A letter to Secretary Sebelius on September 22 documented the report's findings and raised a series of questions about the program's inclusion in the health care law and about whether Secretary Sebelius had the legal authority she claimed to make the program actuarially sound. "The accumulated evidence indicates that CLASS was primarily included in Obamacare because it improved the legislation's estimated impact on the deficit since premiums are collected for five years before any benefits are paid out. This is a budgeting gimmick that is irresponsible and the Administration was right to terminate this program," Chairman Issa said. "I hope today's decision is the first of many more that lead to repeal of Obamacare, a program I and many in Congress believe is economically destructive." Issa added. A link to the September 15 report is available here, and a copy of the September 22 letter is here. # # #
10.13.2011	WASHINGTON D.C. – The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform today approved H.R. 2309, the Oversight Committee Postal Reform Act of 2011 which will return the United States Postal Service (USPS) to sustainability and profitability without a taxpayer bailout. The Issa-Ross bill is the only postal reform proposal that has been successfully acted on this Congress. "The United States Postal Service cannot become a taxpayer subsidized make-work program. To save the Postal Service, we must enact meaningful and immediate reform so we can maintain service to the American people and return it to financial solvency," said Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. "The postal service is on the brink of collapse. Today, we have acted to pass a bill and provide an immediate and viable path forward to make the postal service more efficient, protect its workforce and ultimately return it to being a profitable enterprise. The reality is that failure to act now on the Issa-Ross bill will result in an automatic taxpayer-funded bailout." "We can no longer afford to postpone the Postal Service's day of reckoning by putting our collective heads in the sand and wishing the problem away," said Rep. Dennis A. Ross (R-FL), Chairman of the Oversight subcommittee on postal reform. "Members here today are faced with a stark choice: Are we willing to make the hard decisions necessary to save the Postal Service or will we let it crumble on our watch and potentially put this venerable institution at risk – along with the jobs of the 8 million Americans who work in the mailing industry?" You can watch Chairman Issa's opening remarks here. You can watch Subcommittee Chairman Ross' comments here. The Oversight Committee Postal Reform Act of 2011 was approved on a 22-18 vote. Senator John McCain (R-AZ) has introduced a companion bill in the Senate. For more information visit www.SavingThePostalService.com. Below, you'll find a summary of the provisions in the bill as amended. Summary of the H.R. 2309, the Postal Reform Act, as Amended Prevents Taxpayer Bailouts: plan delivers an efficient, effective Postal Service without the thinly-veiled taxpayer bailout proposed by other bills and thoroughly denounced by the Government Accountability Office. Modernizes Delivery Standards: the Postal Reform Act saves an estimated $3 billion a year by giving the Postal Service the option of eliminating Saturday delivery six months after the enactment of the legislation. According to polling by Quinnipiac University, 79% of the American people favor moving to 5 day delivery in order to restore the Postal Service to solvency. Normalizes Rates: phases out many special rates for certain customers that force the Postal Service to actually charge certain customers less than the true cost of delivery, while preserving the ability for non-profits to fundraise and communicate with a mass audience in an economical manner. Ends Special Treatment for Political Parties: the legislation eliminates the ability of the national and state political committees to use the non-profit mail rate. Shares Sacrifice in Post Office Consolidations: Empanels a BRAC-style two-year task force, directed to recommend a plan to consolidate redundant post offices - saving at least $1 billion a year, excess mail processing faciliites - saving at least $2 billion per year - and the 30% of management facilities. The legislation ensures that small post offices that do not cost much to operate but serve isolated areas are maintained in order to preserve universal service. Under current closure rules, rural post offices are unfairly targeted by strict formulas on foot traffic that fail to account for community impact. The legislation also preserves appeal rights for citizens affected by post office consolidation. Normalizes Pay & Benefits: mandates that postal workers pay at least the same health and life insurance premiums federal workers do, and clarifies that compensation parity with the private sector is maintained. Establishes a Restructuring Authority to Turnaround Postal Defaults: when the Postal Service fails to pay its bills for more than 30 days, a receivership-style authority takes over for USPS management with an explicit mandate to cut costs while maintaining universal service. Management is replaced if they cannot successfully restructure Postal Service finances. Restructuring will be financed with an up to $10 billion line of credit that must be fully collaterialized by postal facilities. The restrucutring authority will have the ability to make policy changes to cut costs as well- for instance- by moving from expensive door delivery to curb or clusterboxes in neighborhoods, the Postal Service will save $3.5 billion annually, while maintaining to the greatest extent possible door service in poor, densely populated, and historic neighborhoods. The solvency authority will also have the ability to remove postal workers from the expensive federal workers compensation system to be placed in their own. Enables Postal Service to Pursue New Revenue: even though the Postal Service is supposed to act like a private business, it can't make money from selling advertisements. The Issa-Ross Postal Reform Act allows USPS to sell advertising space on vehicles and facilities, as long as the ads respect the Postal Service's integrity. Offers an Affordable Payment Plan for Retiree Health Care Benefits: Allows the Postal Service to make the retiree health care funding payment they can make this year, roughly $1 billion, and pay the balance in equal installments in Fiscal Year 2015 and Fiscal Year 2016. Surpluses in Pension Accounts to Facilitate Workforce Rightsizing: Provides for consideration of using a net surplus in all Postal Service pension accounts to fund the cost of reducing the size of the postal workforce. This provision protects taxpayers by ensuring that surplus funds are only accessible if there is an actual net surplus in all accounts. No-More No-Layoff Clauses: No-layoff clauses are prospectively barred in Postal Service collective bargaining agreements. For employees who might lose their job, they will receive a hiring preference at Postal Service contractors. Postal employees would be subject to the same Reduction-in-Force authority as the rest of the federal workforce. ###
10.13.2011	Measure would name Bisbee, Ariz., facility after slain Border Patrol agent Brian A. Terry, Killed in Line of Duty in Dec. 2010 (WASHINGTON)—The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee today approved the Brian A. Terry Memorial Act of 2011, legislation to rename the Bisbee, Ariz., Border Patrol facility after agent Brian Terry who was killed on duty in December 2010. The bill, H.R. 2668, was authored by Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) and is supported by 68 Democratic and Republican cosponsors. "Brian Terry gave his life in service of his country. With today's vote, the naming of the Bisbee station in his honor is one step closer to reality. Naming this facility after Agent Terry is just one small tribute to an officer who gave the ultimate sacrifice, and to his fellow agents who face that same risk every day," Chairman Issa said. Agent Terry's family issued a statement upon introduction of the bill in July, saying, "From the very start, Brian loved his job as a Border Patrol agent and loved his fellow agents. The new Naco Station named in Brian's honor will serve as a lasting memory for all those who knew Brian." Terry died December 15, 2010 after being shot on patrol 14 miles north of the U.S./Mexico border near Rio Rico, Ariz., during an armed confrontation with suspected criminals. Agent Terry's murder is linked to Operation Fast and Furious, a U.S. Department of Justice-led program that knowingly allowed illegally-purchased weapons to be trafficked into Mexico and into the hands of drug cartels. Chairman Issa has led the Oversight and Government Reform Committee investigation into this program. Prior to his service in the Border Patrol, Agent Terry served in the U.S. Marine Corps and as a police officer in Michigan. The bill renames the facility at 2163 Naco Highway in Bisbee, and is only the second border patrol station to be named for a fallen agent. The facility in Murrieta, Calif., is named in honor of Agents Theodore L. Newton, Jr., and George F. Azrak, both killed on duty in 1967, by an act earlier authored by Rep. Issa. # # #
09.22.2011	Congressman Darrell Issa Statement on the Groundbreaking of Temecula's Ronald Reagan Sports Park "Can-Do" Monument WASHINGTON. D.C. – To mark the groundbreaking of Temecula's Ronald Reagan Sports Park "Can-Do" monument (phase one), Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) offered the following statement: "Congratulations to the people of Temecula on reaching this first benchmark in the construction of the Ronald Reagan Sports Park's "Can-Do" Monument. Seven years of hard work is finally paying off, and for a fitting cause. "The same spirit that President Reagan saw in Temecula back in '83 is still strong in its citizens today. And that's what we're here to celebrate. "The unwavering, can-do attitude that built this park decades ago is intrinsically American, and it's what's fueled the effort behind this monument as well. "It's no wonder why President Reagan, a true icon of the American Spirit, saw fit to draw the eyes of the world to this town. People here come together with grit, creativity, and determination to get things done. "In essence, he said, and aptly so, 'take a look at this park and the people who built it, and you'll see what's best about America.' I agree. "A great deal of credit for this accomplishment belongs to Perry Peters, the Friends of Ronald Reagan Sports Park, the Temecula City Council, sculptor Christopher Pardell, and the many volunteers who worked to bring this funding need to the attention of the community. Thank you all for your perseverance. The thousands of children and families who will enjoy this monument and meet the Gipper for themselves in the very near future have you to thank." # # #
09.21.2011	WASHINGTON - Today the House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Federal Workforce, the U.S. Postal Service, and Labor Policy reported out on a 8-5 vote HR 2309, the Issa-Ross Postal Reform Act of 2011, with changes that bring the total mandatory minimum savings for USPS in the bill to $10.7 billion annually. The bill will be heard at a full committee markup before heading to the floor. The bill was introduced in June by Oversight Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., and Subcommittee Chairman Dennis Ross, R-Fla. The bill is the only postal reform legislation introduced this Congress that would restore the postal service to solvency and prevent a multi-billion dollar taxpayer funded bailout. "Getting to a profitable situation with the core business is our requirement, and that is all I am dedicated to," Issa said. "The status quo for the Postal Service is no longer sustainable and reform is urgently needed," said Ross, who chaired the markup. "I thank my colleagues for being here today and look forward to working with them to ensure postal services are available to all Americans for the next 200 years." The legislation moves forward several cost-cutting structural reforms that would allow the postal service to right-size operations and reduce workforce cost. Seven amendments designed to eliminate reforms in the legislation or change its intent were defeated. Find more information on the Issa-Ross Postal Reform Act at http://SavingThePostalService.com.
09.15.2011	(WASHINGTON)— Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) today released the following statement upon passage of the Protecting Jobs from Government Interference Act (H.R. 2587) in the House of Representatives. Earlier this year, Chairman Issa and the Oversight Committee opened an investigation into action by the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) that potentially jeopardizes Boeing's work to open a new manufacturing facility in South Carolina and create thousands of jobs. The Committee held a June field hearing in Charleston to hear from workers and job creators about the likely impacts of this action. A statement from Issa, a cosponsor of the bill, is below: "The National Labor Relations Board has acted as a rogue agency sparking outcry from a bipartisan majority in Congress and even critical comments from President Obama. "That a government agency could dictate to a private company where it can work, who it can hire—literally how it chooses to operate—is shocking, and sets a dangerous precedent not just in the Boeing case, but also for every other business seeking to move or expand operations to compete in a global economy. The Protecting Jobs from Government Interference Act, sets clear limitations on the NLRB's powers that have been used in ways Congress never intended. "At a time when 14 million Americans are unemployed, the Obama Administration should be working with Congress to lessen restrictive burdens and red tape on job creators and empower entrepreneurs and companies—large and small—to make the decisions they need to compete, to grow, and to thrive." # # #
09.10.2011	VISTA, CA – Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) today offered this statement to commemorate the 10th anniversary of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001: "Across the country Americans will spend time this weekend reflecting on where they were and what they did when the tragic events of 9/11 unfolded. We will offer our thoughts and prayers for the families of those we lost, and we will honor the men and women deployed throughout the world defending our freedom and our way of life. "While we spent much of that horrific day grappling with our worst fears and uncertainty, Americans found a way to channel a spirit of resilience that would carry us beyond the tragedy and help us realize the best of ourselves and our country. Our nation was home to men and women who redefined what it meant to be a hero, who brushed aside regard for their own well-being, running toward the fire to help their fellow man. And America was home to the people who intrepidly cast aside the trappings of their mortality to defeat a murderous enemy over a field in Pennsylvania, saving countless lives. "In an instant that Tuesday morning, a nation and its people came together. And in that wake, a generation of protectors – Airmen, Soldiers, Sailors, and Marines – arose, many of them paying dearly to secure for us this past decade of safety and freedom. "The unprovoked attack ten years ago was sudden; but its memory lingers, indelibly seared into our national identity. Americans take heart in this remembrance, though, for what was meant to bring us to our knees instead revealed the unparalleled caliber of American character and prompted our country to reaffirm its resolve to unity, patriotism, and pride. That day, another which will live in infamy, revealed to the darkness in our world why there is great cause to fear the champions of freedom." Congressman Issa offers additional reflections on the experience of September 11, 2001 at our nation's capitol in this week's issue of The Hill. # # #
09.09.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement tonight regarding President Obama's joint session address: "Tonight, I had hoped that President Obama would offer a new approach to creating jobs and sparking economic growth that showed he had learned from past missteps. What I heard, however, sounded more like a second stimulus than a new approach. "Listening to job creators around the country, it is clear that the key to recovery is not more government spending and public workers—the key is a renewed focus on private sector investment and expansion. The failed stimulus and its successor policies have proven that massive government deficit spending is not the solution—it is the problem. "President Obama recently halted a job-killing EPA smog rule which he acknowledged would hinder recovery. Halting or revising other job killing regulations and reforming a tax system that harms job creation are areas where Congress and the President can and should seek common ground. "Ultimately, Americans need solutions that help us compete against the world instead of those that attempt to pit one group of Americans against others." # # #
09.08.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) this evening made the following statement praising the Senate's overwhelming passage of comprehensive patent reform through the America Invents Act: "The America Invents Act will create new high-paying jobs and help grow our economy." "The global race to make discoveries and get inventions into the marketplace first requires that American innovators have a streamlined patent approval process. For too many years, they didn't. The system was slow, costly, and didn't adequately protect the rights of intellectual property holders. This legislation changes that, and further defends patented entrepreneurs from being the target of job-destroying predatory lawsuits." Congressman Issa is one of a small number of patent-holding members of Congress, with thirty-seven registered to his name. He has worked for eleven years on patent reform legislation and for the past six specifically on the America Invents Act. The America Invents Act passed through the House of Representatives on June 23 with a vote of 304-117. Today's Senate vote of 89-9 in favor of the America Invents Act sends the legislation to President Barack Obama for his consideration. If the President signs the America Invents Act, it will immediately become law. # # #
09.08.2011	Oversight Chairman Issa Issues Report Outlining Stimulus Consequences, Lessons Learned WASHINGTON, D.C. - Is President Obama Doubling Down on Failure? A new analysis released today by House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) documents how the stimulus failed—and even pushed the country deeper into recession—and at what cost. The report said the American people should bear in mind this record as President Obama presents his next economic recovery plan to the nation tonight. Highlights of the Oversight Committee review of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act include: Two and a half years after its implementation, at a cost of $825 billion, the economy has lost 2.3 million jobs; In the months following the stimulus, unemployment rose well above the ceiling of 8 percent promised by President Obama and Administration officials to over 10.1 percent; Less than 55 percent of Americans have full time jobs—the lowest percentage in modern times. Some 25 million people are unemployed or unable to find full time jobs; A study by Ohio State University in May found that instead of creating jobs, the stimulus "destroyed/forestalled one million private sector jobs" but did create 450,000 jobs in the government sector; 8.1 million workers are employed part time because they are unable to find full-time jobs or their hours have been cut; An additional 1.1 million discouraged workers have stopped looking for jobs because they do not believe there were any available—taken together, true unemployment tops 16 percent. President Obama and his Administration have continued to defend the stimulus. "Unlike President Obama and his Administration, the American people measure stimulus based on whether or not they have seen results. With unemployment stuck above 9 percent and the U.S. economy struggling to recover, it is clear that President Obama's stimulus did not produce as advertised—it failed plain and simple. Failure to understand the consequences of poor policy decisions will yield only more bad decisions and not the job creation, economic growth and recovery that the American people deserve," Chairman Issa said. "Republicans in Congress have provided leadership to help create jobs and grow the economy by offering a responsible budget and policy agenda that cuts out of control government spending, expands domestic energy production, reduces the onerous taxes and regulations of the Obama Administration, and encourages the job-creating, entrepreneurial spirit for which America is known," Issa said. He added, "It's time that Democrat leaders in the Senate and the Obama Administration pass an agenda that sparks growth by getting government out of the way of job creators. I hope that President Obama's son of stimulus proposal outlined tonight will focus on these goals, and not be a repeat of the failed stimulus program." A complete copy of the Oversight Committee's report, "Doubling Down on Failure: Before Asking for a New Stimulus Package, "Will the Obama Administration Admit that the First One Failed?" is available here. # # #
09.06.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa released the following statement on the Department of Justice transferring cases related to Operation Fast and Furious out of the Arizona U.S. Attorney's Office: "Moving cases related to Operation Fast and Furious away from the Arizona U.S. Attorney's Office is clearly in the best interest of achieving just outcomes and removes the apparent conflict-of-interest that Arizona prosecutors had in bringing cases from an operation they mishandled. The Oversight committee first urged the Justice Department to transfer these cases to an impartial prosecutor in May. This decision is also an important step in respecting the rights of victims of Operation Fast and Furious, including the family of Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry, who had expressed concern about how the cases were being handled in Arizona." ###
09.02.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement on a federal unemployment report issued today: "Today's unemployment report echoes the sentiments of economic experts: until President Obama and Senate Democrats get serious about cutting spending, easing the regulatory and tax burden, and reducing the deficit, our economy will continue to struggle. "When President Obama addresses Congress next week, he needs to set-aside the failed approach of the 2009 stimulus and instead embrace policies that will create tax certainty and enhance global competitiveness, promote domestic manufacturing and production of proven energy sources, and address existing and proposed regulations that are scaring employers away from hiring. "These are proven steps we know will create sustainable private sector jobs that the President's leadership could help achieve." # # #
09.02.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. —House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) today released the following statement regarding President Obama's decision to reverse a proposed Environmental Protection Agency Ozone regulation: "I appreciate President Obama's actions to intervene in the implementation of a regulation that Republicans in Congress have been spotlighting for months in reports, hearings and independent investigations. "At each turn, one point was made clear: this regulation is a proven job killer and only one element of a larger regulatory train wreck orchestrated by the Obama Administration. "I hope that today's announcement will be the first of many areas where the President begins to join Republicans by putting job creation and economic recovery as his top priorities not more red tape and regulation." # # #
08.26.2011	WASHINGTON. D.C. – The office of Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista), Chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, today sent a letter to The New York Times Assistant Managing Editor and D.C. Bureau Chief Dean Baquet. The letter is in response to one sent to Rep. Issa last night acknowledging two additional significant factual errors in The New York Times' August 15 front page article while refusing to correct other errors or issue a retraction. The Times has now run corrections on three items in the story. Below is the text of the letter sent to Mr. Baquet from Rep. Issa's Director of Communications: August 26, 2011 Mr. Dean P. BaquetAssistant Managing EditorWashington Bureau ChiefNew York Times Washington Bureau1627 I Street, NWWashington, D.C. 20006 Dear Mr. Baquet: As Congressman Darrell Issa's Director of Communications, The New York Times' acknowledgement of two more critical errors in its front page article of August 15 in addition to a previous error corrected on August 16 are steps in the right direction. The new acknowledgement of these false assertions about enormous profits from the sale of a mutual fund and the appreciation of a commercial real estate property owned by Rep. Issa fully removes all examples cited in the article as evidence that the "congressman's government actions [help] to make a rich man even richer" and that values of his holdings have "soared" due to his official actions. However, The Times' continued refusal to accept clear evidence of other mistakes, your unwillingness to retract a deeply flawed story even after acknowledging that factual pillars of the article are incorrect, and your failure to address or defend the conduct of the story's author, Mr. Eric Lichtblau, is deeply disappointing and makes your response to the issues raised by our office and others inadequate. Your August 25 letter to Rep. Issa, in fact, contains a number false assertions and worrisome distortions as I will explain. "A gleaming office building overlooking a golf course" Incredibly, The New York Times continues to dismiss the reporting of other news outlets and first-hand sources who have visited the location of the building where Rep. Issa's office is located and reported that the building has no golf course view. The North County Times reported: "[Issa's] Vista district office [is] in a three-story building that The New York Times referred to as 'gleaming' and overlooking a golf course. The building, in fact, is nondescript, overlooks Highway 78 and has no golf course view." The San Diego Union-Tribune reported: "The U-T visited Issa's offices on Friday, and the Shadowridge Country Club isn't plainly visible. It's about a 1.5 mile drive from Issa's parking lot to the clubhouse ... The area is not characterized by rugged foothills so much as suburban living. Down the street are a Burlington Coat Factory, Target and 24 Hour Fitness." The owner of the building where Rep. Issa's office is located has also called The New York Times report an error: "None of the offices located within the Vista Corporate Center at 1800 Thibodo Road, including the office of Congressman Darrell Issa on the third floor, have a view of any golf course whatsoever. Any reports to the contrary are in error." While Eric Lichtblau, in an e-mail sent August 15, stated that leasing agents "have advertised its views of the Shadowridge golf course," The New York Times has not produced any such evidence. The advertisement The Times has produced (http://bit.ly/qibQq8) that references "direct views to the golf driving range" is not a reference to the Shadowridge Golf Course, but is an out-of-date reference to the Vista Golf Practice Center that was once located at 1850 Thibodo Road next door to the building where Rep. Issa's office is currently located. This driving range was closed many years ago and is currently the site of an apartment complex that one can see on a Google satellite image. As best as I can discern, this out-of-date real estate advertisement is the basis for your decision to reject the accounts of other news outlets who have visited the building and other firsthand sources. That The New York Times, in the lede of a front page story, would assert that a reporter personally witnessed a golf course view while citing as evidence an out-dated and misinterpreted real estate advertisement indicates an incredibly cavalier approach to ethics and journalistic integrity at your newspaper. While the reporter's false assertion and the deception he commits against his readers in an effort to foreshadow his clearly negative opinion of Rep. Issa is regrettable, the continuing efforts of The Times' management to cover-up errors in this deeply flawed article is outright shameful. It is even more so given comments, attributed to you by Politico, that indicate your own doubts about the office's view: "I don't think it implied — at least to my mind — that Issa's office overlooked the golf course." An appropriate and unbiased description in the story would have said "freeway" or "apartment complex" rather than golf course – which cannot be seen from the building. "A major supplier of alarms to Toyota" The Times' continued defense of the false claim that Rep. Issa's former company, DEI Holdings, was "a major supplier of alarms to Toyota" and that this relationship created a conflict-of-interest is deeply disappointing and contrary to the evidence. Toyota, itself, has disputed this claim telling multiple news outlets, "DEI Holdings is not a direct supplier of Toyota ..." While we have never disputed that some products made by Rep. Issa's former company are compatible with Toyotas and that some Toyota owners choose to purchase such products, this is far from any reasonable definition of a "major supplier of alarms to Toyota." According to The New York Times' definition, even makers of fuzzy dice would be considered major suppliers to Toyota. When Eric Lichtblau first wrote about Rep. Issa's involvement with hearings examining Toyota safety defects on February 23, 2010, he noted that Rep. Issa's former company had sold alarms "for Toyotas and many other makes." He was also told explicitly by an Issa spokesman that Rep. Issa had, "no vested interest in Toyota's success or failure" and that the firm had never had exclusive contracting agreements with Toyota. Contrary to assertions made by you and Mr. Lichtblau, when Rep. Issa was asked the next day by Don Imus about this report written by Mr. Lichtblau, he never once said or indicated he had ever been a supplier to Toyota nor did he confirm past ties to Toyota. His statements and references to himself as a former "automobile supplier" did not mention specific companies with whom he had conducted business. I encourage you to re-review this interview since The Times, readily and erroneously, discarded specific denials from Rep. Issa's office on this matter long before your error-ridden August 15 story was written. In addition, it is surprising that The Times would even attempt to make this assertion without first contacting Toyota. Questions About Mr. Lichtblau's Improper Conduct Rep. Issa's office decided not to speak with Mr. Lichtblau for his August 15 story because of concern about his inability to put his negative view and bias against Rep. Issa aside in objectively reporting this story. After reading his story, which contained multiple errors smearing Rep. Issa, we feel vindicated by our decision. Had The New York Times assigned a different reporter, our response would have almost certainly been different. While you do not offer a clear defense of Mr. Lichtblau's bias against Rep. Issa and his efforts to smear him with factual errors and other distortions, your letter does contain explicit descriptions explaining your views of my efforts to work with him on correcting factual errors in his story. What follows is a timeline of my interaction with him: • Monday, August 15th, 9:15 a.m., I wrote Mr. Lichtblau asking for corrections from The New York Times. I asked for three corrections: the golf course error, the multibillion rather than multimillion misstatement, and correction of the "major supplier" to Toyota assertion. • On the same day, at 10:31 a.m., Lichtblau wrote back that the multibillion error was a typo that will be corrected, but refused the other two requests. He cited an unspecified advertisement as the source for the golf course statement and an Imus clip from over a year ago as the source on the Toyota supplier confirmation. • At 11:37 a.m., I responded to Mr. Lichtblau expressing my continued disagreement on the items he refused to correct. I asked him to provide me with his editors' contact information if he still found himself in disagreement with my requests. • At 3:13 p.m., nearly four hours later, he responded to my e-mail with a reply that, in its entirety, read: "You must not have seen the Imus interview." He did not include any names or contacts for his editors. I hope this timeline is helpful as your assertion that his nearly four hour delay in responding to my second e-mail indicated that he "responded promptly" and your omission of my specific request to be put in touch with editors in my second e-mail suggests you may be misinformed. Finally, we are disappointed that your response did not address accusations brought forward by Mr. Lee Fang of the Center for American Progress who raised concerns via Twitter with Mr. Lichtblau and The New York Times public editor that this story plagiarized or took without proper attribution items he had previously written about on the blog ThinkProgress. We certainly noticed Mr. Fang's complaint: lhfang Lee Fang: Hey @EricLichtblau & @thepubliceditor your NYT Issa piece looks awfully familiar (see http://t.co/uZQBIsz & http://t.co/NSw0Wrc) Indeed the items, at least those that could be best categorized as half-truths, appear to be primarily items that are not original reporting but recycled material previously raised by left-wing organizations. We would certainly, however, agree that the most serious errors, including the three that have been the subject of corrections The Times has so-far run and the two I have focused on in this correspondence, all represent original reporting from The New York Times. We repeat our request and ask that The New York Times reconsider Rep. Issa's request for a full front page retraction of the August 15 story as well as your attention to multiple errors that have still not been corrected. Sincerely yours, Frederick Hill Director of Communications cc: Arthur S. Brisbane, Public Editor ###
08.23.2011	WASHINGTON- Following months of efforts by members of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and other GOP leaders, the White House today announced a host of regulatory initiatives designed to save businesses $10 billion over 5 years. "Today's announcement shows that our efforts to shine a spotlight on the job killing effect of overly burdensome regulations are yielding some gains," said Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif., "But the President must join House Republicans in doing more to address these job killers, especially those proposed regulations that jeopardize economic growth, in an effort to restart the economy and create jobs. House Republicans will certainly continue our efforts to address government actions that are inhibiting job creation." According to U.S. Chamber of Commerce Vice President Bill Kovacs in the Wall Street Journal: "The changes are welcome, but don't appear to go far enough...Each of the proposals seems to be efficient, technical changes, but it doesn't make any impact on the overall regulatory burdens that exist on the business community." In February, the Associated Press reported in a story "Republicans out front of Obama on regulations" that Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., and other GOP leaders have been leading the fight to address unnecessary regulatory barriers to job creation. Republicans have conducted a wide-reaching ongoing survey of the problems facing America's job creators at www.AmericanJobCreators.com. As Chairman Issa said in January, "The anti-business policies of the past have hurt job creators, small and large. It's in the interest of every American that we create a modern, regulatory environment that fosters economic growth and makes U.S. companies globally competitive. I look forward to providing the President with insights gained from our current effort to hear directly from job creators about what they perceive as barriers standing in the way of their ability to create jobs." ###
08.19.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The office of Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista, CA), Chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee has formally requested that the New York Times issue a front-page retraction for an error-filled article entitled, "Helping His District, and Himself." The New York Times has so far issued one correction and is reviewing other errors cited by Rep. Issa's office and the request for the retraction. It has promised to respond. Below is the formal request for a retraction sent by Rep. Issa's office yesterday to editors of The New York Times: On behalf of Rep. Darrell Issa, please accept this as a formal request for a full front page retraction, including the headline, "Helping His District, and Himself," that ran in the Monday, August 15 edition of the New York Times. The request for a full front page retraction is based on numerous errors that invalidate the primary assertions made in the story that is a false and sensationalized account of Rep. Issa's efforts to conduct congressional oversight of the Obama Administration and other matters. This request is being sent after New York Times reporter, Eric Lichtblau, who wrote the story, refused to share the contact information of his editors for a discussion of errors in the story as requested by Rep. Issa's congressional office. The central claim in the New York Times story is an allegation of self-dealing on the part of Rep. Darrell Issa, as the story describes, "with at least some of the congressman's actions helping to make a rich man richer" and "specific actions that appear to have clearly benefited his businesses." The New York Times story cites three central examples it believes justifies these allegations: A medical complex purchased by Rep. Issa in 2008 that the Times story alleges enjoyed a 60 percent appreciation as it increased in value from $10.3 million to $16.6 million, "at least in part because of the government-sponsored road work" that Rep. Issa supported. That he "went easy" on Toyota during 2010 hearings on unintended acceleration due to "his electronics company's role as a major supplier of alarms to Toyota." An alleged 1900 percent profit Rep. Issa's charitable foundation made on an investment of "less that $19,000" that was sold seven months later for $357,000 "months before the stock market crashed." All central examples, however, are wildly inaccurate, and the truth deserves to be told. The medical complex the Times story alleges enjoyed a 60 percent appreciation since it was purchased for $10.3 million and is now valued at $16.6 million is a patently false claim. According to the buyer's final settlement statement, the property in question was not purchased for $10.3 million as the New York Times reported but for $16.6 million – the exact same figure of its current tax assessment. According to these numbers, the appreciation is not 60 percent but roughly zero. In addition, the government sponsored road work noted in the article has not even begun and Rep. Issa's requests for the project (which were publicly announced and made on behalf of and at the request of the City of Vista, and the San Diego Association of Governments which is the regional transportation planning authority) all came before the 2008 property purchase. The allegation that Rep. Issa "went easy" on Toyota during 2010 hearings because of "his electronics company's role as a major supplier of alarms to Toyota" is again an example of a factual error in the Times story that lends no support to the story's central premise. While the Times story tells readers that Rep. Issa's former company, Directed Electronics, is a "major supplier of alarms to Toyota," the story offers no evidence, and Directed Electronics is, in fact, not a supplier to Toyota. The New York Times also fails to note that Rep. Issa does not have a personal financial interest in Directed Electronics. The "1,900 percent" profit allegation is, again, based on reporting errors by the New York Times. This is assertion is based on an incorrect form obtained by the Times. According to a financial transaction record, the Issa Family Foundation's initial investment in the AIM Small Company fund was not $19,000 but $500,000. The asset was later sold for $375,000 resulting in a $125,000 loss – not a 1900 percent gain as was reported. In addition, the lede line of the Times story – an attempt by the New York Times to foreshadow a corporate image of Rep. Issa's congressional office – contains a factual inaccuracy in introducing intentionally distorted imagery. The story begins, "Here on the third floor of a gleaming office building overlooking a golf course in the rugged foothills north of San Diego, Darrell Issa, the entrepreneur, oversees the hub of a growing financial empire worth hundreds of millions of dollars." As this video shows, however, the office building located at 1800 Thibodo Rd. in Vista does not overlook a golf course. Because of these errors, and another error the New York Times did correct that grossly exaggerated the value of some holdings held by Rep. Issa, the following lines in the New York Times original story that ran August 15 are incorrect or made on baseless assertions: The title, "Helping His District and Himself" implies that Rep. Issa has engaged in self-dealing. The only evidence the story offers for this assertion are factually flawed assertions. The lede, "Here on the third floor of a gleaming office building overlooking a golf course in the rugged foothills north of San Diego, Darrell Issa, the entrepreneur, oversees the hub of a growing financial empire worth hundreds of millions of dollars." The building where Rep. Issa's office is located does not overlook a golf course as the reporter Eric Lichtblau implies he personally observed. "Mr. Issa has ... split a holding company into separate multibillion-dollar businesses." Rep. Issa does not own a single multi-billion business (The Times has issued a correction for this error). "As his private wealth and public power have grown, so too has the overlap between his private and business lives, with at least some of the congressman's government actions helping to make a rich man even richer and raising the potential for conflicts." The only examples the New York Times raises of Rep. Issa's public actions benefiting his private holdings are the erroneous examples previously noted. "In one case, more than $800,000 in earmarks he arranged will help widen a busy thoroughfare in front of a medical plaza he bought for $10.3 million." The story erroneously reports the property's purchase price which was, in fact, $16.6 million. It also fails to mention that at the time he sought funding for his district he did not own this property. "At the same time, the value of the medical complex and other properties has soared, at least in part because of the government-sponsored roadwork." The roadwork in question has not begun and, as noted previously, the New York Times' assertion that the value of the medical complex has "soared" is based on false information. The Times' statement also conflicts with the statement of a quoted source in the story, Dean Tilton the local commercial property broker, who describes this as the worst market in twenty years. The Times suggests road projects miles away from those owned by Rep. Issa benefit him. By this logic, wouldn't the entire area be booming as a result of Rep. Issa's earmarks? "But beyond specific actions that appear to have clearly benefited his businesses, Mr. Issa's interests are so varied that some of the biggest issues making their way through Congress affect him in some way." The New York Times fails to provide accurate examples of "specific actions that appear to have clearly benefited his businesses." "After the forced sale of Merrill Lynch in 2008, for instance, he publicly attacked the Treasury Department's handling of the deal without mentioning that Merrill had handled hundreds of millions of dollars in investments for him and lent him many millions more." The New York Times fails to note that Rep. Issa's transactions with Merrill Lynch have been appropriately disclosed in his annual ethics filing. "In Mr. Issa's case, it is sometimes difficult to separate the business of Congress from the business of Darrell Issa." Again, the New York Times story fails to provide factually accurate examples for this assertion. "Then, Mr. Issa brushed aside suggestions that his electronics company's role as a major supplier of alarms to Toyota made him go easy on the automaker as he led an investigation into the recalls." Rep. Issa's former company is not a supplier to Toyota. "In one 2008 sale, months before the stock market crashed, his family foundation earned $357,000 on an initial investment of less than $19,000 — a return of nearly 1,900 percent in just seven months, the foundation reported to the Internal Revenue Service." This assertion is based on an incorrect document. The actual purchase price was not $19,000, but $500,000 and resulted in a $125,000 loss. "That suggests the foundation may have acquired the shares from a third-party broker." This assertion is based on the false 1900 percent claim. "Mr. Issa is keenly interested in Goldman's performance." This statement lacks a basis in fact as Rep. Issa does not have investments dependent on Goldman Sach's performance. I appreciate your attention to these thirteen errors contained in the August 15 story and look forward to hearing your response to our request for a front-page retraction of the story due to the inaccuracies that fully undermine the premise of the article. Thank you, Frederick HillDirector of Communications
08.19.2011	WASHINGTON. D.C. – The office of Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista, CA), Chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee has formally requested that the New York Times issue a front-page retraction for an error-filled article entitled, “Helping His District, and Himself.” The New York Times has so far issued one correction and is reviewing other errors cited by Rep. Issa’s office and the request for the retraction. It has promised to respond. Below is the formal request for a retraction sent by Rep. Issa’s office yesterday to editors of The New York Times: On behalf of Rep. Darrell Issa, please accept this as a formal request for a full front page retraction, including the headline, “Helping His District, and Himself,” that ran in the Monday, August 15 edition of the New York Times. The request for a full front page retraction is based on numerous errors that invalidate the primary assertions made in the story that is a false and sensationalized account Rep. Issa’s efforts to conduct congressional oversight of the Obama Administration and other matters. This request is being sent after New York Times reporter, Eric Lichtblau, who wrote the story, refused to share the contact information of his editors for a discussion of errors in the story as requested by Rep. Issa’s congressional office. The central claim in the New York Times story is an allegation of self-dealing on the part of Rep. Darrell Issa, as the story describes, “with at least some of the congressman’s actions helping to make a rich man richer” and “specific actions that appear to have clearly benefited his businesses.” The New York Times story cites three central examples it believes justifies these allegations: A medical complex purchased by Rep. Issa in 2008 that the Times story alleges enjoyed a 60 percent appreciation as it increased in value from $10.3 million to $16.6 million, “at least in part because of the government-sponsored road work” that Rep. Issa supported. That he “went easy” on Toyota during 2010 hearings on unintended acceleration due to “his electronics company’s role as a major supplier of alarms to Toyota.” An alleged 1900 percent profit Rep. Issa’s charitable foundation made on an investment of “less that $19,000” that was sold seven months later for $357,000 “months before the stock market crashed.” All central examples, however, are wildly inaccurate, and the truth deserves to be told. The medical complex the Times story alleges enjoyed a 60 percent appreciation since it was purchased for $10.3 million and is now valued at $16.6 million is a patently false claim. According to the buyer’s final settlement statement, the property in question was not purchased for $10.3 million as the New York Times reported but for $16.6 million – the exact same figure of its current tax assessment. According to these numbers, the appreciation is not 60 percent but roughly zero. In addition, the government sponsored road work noted in the article has not even begun and Rep. Issa’s requests for the project (which were publicly announced and made on behalf of and at the request of the City of Vista, and the San Diego Association of Governments which is the regional transportation planning authority) all came before the 2009 property purchase. The allegation that Rep. Issa “went easy” on Toyota during 2010 hearings because of “his electronics company’s role as a major supplier of alarms to Toyota” is again an example of a factual error in the Times story that lends no support to the story’s central premise. While the Times story tells readers that Rep. Issa’s former company, Directed Electronics, is a “major supplier of alarms to Toyota,” the story offers no evidence, and Directed Electronics is, in fact, not a supplier to Toyota. The New York Times also fails to note that Rep. Issa does not have a personal financial interest in Directed Electronics. The “1,900 percent” profit allegation is, again, based on reporting errors by the New York Times. This is assertion is based on an incorrect form obtained by the Times. According to a financial transaction record, the Issa Family Foundation’s initial investment in the AIM Small Company fund was not $19,000 but $500,000. The asset was later sold for $375,000 resulting in a $125,000 loss – not a 1900 percent gain as was reported. In addition, the lede line of the Times story – an attempt by the New York Times to foreshadow a corporate image of Rep. Issa’s congressional office – contains a factual inaccuracy in introducing intentionally distorted imagery. The story begins, "Here on the third floor of a gleaming office building overlooking a golf course in the rugged foothills north of San Diego, Darrell Issa, the entrepreneur, oversees the hub of a growing financial empire worth hundreds of millions of dollars." As this video shows, however, the office building located at 1800 Thibodo Rd. in Vista does not overlook a golf course. Because of these errors, and another error the New York Times did correct that grossly exaggerated the value of some holdings held by Rep. Issa, the following lines in the New York Times original story that ran August 15 are incorrect or made on baseless assertions: The title, “Helping His District and Himself” implies that Rep. Issa has engaged in self-dealing. The only evidence the story offers for this assertion are factually flawed assertions. The lede, “Here on the third floor of a gleaming office building overlooking a golf course in the rugged foothills north of San Diego, Darrell Issa, the entrepreneur, oversees the hub of a growing financial empire worth hundreds of millions of dollars.” The building where Rep. Issa’s office is located does not overlook a golf course as the reporter Eric Lichtblau implies he personally observed. “Mr. Issa has … split a holding company into separate multibillion-dollar businesses.” Rep. Issa does not own a single multi-billion business (The Times has issued a correction for this error). “As his private wealth and public power have grown, so too has the overlap between his private and business lives, with at least some of the congressman’s government actions helping to make a rich man even richer and raising the potential for conflicts.” The only examples the New York Times raises of Rep. Issa’s public actions benefiting his private holdings are the erroneous examples previously noted. “In one case, more than $800,000 in earmarks he arranged will help widen a busy thoroughfare in front of a medical plaza he bought for $10.3 million.” The story erroneously reports the property’s purchase price which was, in fact, $16.6 million. It also fails to mention that at the time he sought funding for his district he did not own this property. “At the same time, the value of the medical complex and other properties has soared, at least in part because of the government-sponsored roadwork.” The roadwork in question has not begun and, as noted previously, the New York Times’ assertion that the value of the medical complex has “soared” is based on false information. The Times’ statement also conflicts with the statement of a quoted source in the story, Dean Tilton the local commercial property broker, who describes this as the worst market in twenty years. The Times suggests road projects miles away from those owned by Rep. Issa benefit him. By this logic, wouldn’t the entire area be booming as a result of Rep. Issa’s earmarks? “But beyond specific actions that appear to have clearly benefited his businesses, Mr. Issa’s interests are so varied that some of the biggest issues making their way through Congress affect him in some way.” The New York Times fails to provide accurate examples of “specific actions that appear to have clearly benefited his businesses.” “After the forced sale of Merrill Lynch in 2008, for instance, he publicly attacked the Treasury Department’s handling of the deal without mentioning that Merrill had handled hundreds of millions of dollars in investments for him and lent him many millions more.” The New York Times fails to note that Rep. Issa’s transactions with Merrill Lynch have been appropriately disclosed in his annual ethics filing. “In Mr. Issa’s case, it is sometimes difficult to separate the business of Congress from the business of Darrell Issa.” Again, the New York Times story fails to provide factually accurate examples for this assertion. “Then, Mr. Issa brushed aside suggestions that his electronics company’s role as a major supplier of alarms to Toyota made him go easy on the automaker as he led an investigation into the recalls.” Rep. Issa’s former company is not a supplier to Toyota. “In one 2008 sale, months before the stock market crashed, his family foundation earned $357,000 on an initial investment of less than $19,000 — a return of nearly 1,900 percent in just seven months, the foundation reported to the Internal Revenue Service.” This assertion is based on an incorrect document. The actual purchase price was not $19,000, but $500,000 and resulted in a $125,000 loss. “That suggests the foundation may have acquired the shares from a third-party broker.” This assertion is based on the false 1900 percent claim. “Mr. Issa is keenly interested in Goldman’s performance.” This statement lacks a basis in fact as Rep. Issa does not have investments dependent on Goldman Sach’s performance. I appreciate your attention to these thirteen errors contained in the August 15 story and look forward to hearing your response to our request for a front-page retraction of the story due to the inaccuracies that fully undermine the premise of the article.
08.12.2011	(WASHINGTON)—House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) today released the following statement in response to the National Labor Relations Board's (NLRB) failure to fully comply with the committee's subpoena issued August 7, 2011: "The National Labor Relations Board and Acting General Counsel Lafe Solomon have thus far failed to comply with a lawful subpoena. This refusal by NLRB to abide by the law further heightens concerns that this is a rogue agency acting improperly. The integrity of NLRB and its leadership is clearly in question. "The public has a right to know the truth about why a government agency would choose to take action to benefit organized labor that threatens thousands of non-union jobs in South Carolina while setting a precedent impacting manufacturers across the country. "It is imperative that Congress get complete facts about NLRB's decision-making process in this matter. Its continued refusal to fully cooperate will not deter this Committee as it moves forward in efforts to determine what occurred and to hold NLRB officials to account." # # #
08.11.2011	Concern that new rules will hurt safety, increase consumer costs (WASHINGTON)—The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee has expanded its investigation into a new regulatory framework supported by auto manufacturers and the Obama Administration, saying the structure was agreed to in secret, without legal authority, and with serious consequences for American consumers. Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) wrote to the White House August 8 seeking answers to two dozen questions about new Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards announced July 29. Issa also said he was concerned that government ownership interest in General Motors and Chrysler at the time of the negotiations created a troublesome conflict of interest that required enhanced transparency. "The impact of this agreement on the ability of American businesses to create jobs throughout the automotive production and sales chain is also deeply troubling," Issa said. "If consumers do not buy the vehicles that manufacturers are required to produce, sales will fall, production will slow and manufacturers will be forced to eliminate jobs," he added. In the letter to White House Counsel Kathryn Ruemmler, Issa pointed to comments made by two prominent auto industry experts saying consumers had been omitted from the new fuel efficiency rulemaking process. He also pointed out that the Obama Administration has refused to reveal the estimated consumer cost increase from the rules. "Like me, [consumers] are deeply concerned that a deal has been struck between the Administration and special interests and that the rulemaking process will be a mere formality," according to the Kelley Blue Book, Issa noted. The Center for Progressive Reform called the new standards, "the result of raw political wrangling, not the rational rulemaking process," Issa wrote. Chairman Issa and the Center have both expressed concern that the rulemaking occurred outside the jurisdiction of the Administrative Procedures Act (APA). "If in fact the CAFE standards are the result of political haggling and not the application of proven science to the laws passed by Congress, then the Administration stands in violation of the [APA]," he wrote. "This approach appears to be exactly the type of activity that the APA was designed to prevent. Moreover, the Administration's unusual insistence that auto manufacturers forsake their statutory right to challenge the final rules, before they are even drafted, is startling in light of the obvious procedural and substantive concerns with the Administration's actions," the letter said. The Committee launched its investigation August 1 with document preservation letters sent to automobile manufacturers who publicly announced an agreement with the Obama Administration. A copy of one such letter is available here. Chairman Issa requested a response from White House Counsel Ruemmler within two weeks. A copy of the letter is available here. # # #
08.10.2011	Continued Lack of Transparency Will Trigger Compulsory Process, Committee Leaders Say (WASHINGTON)—House Oversight and Government Reform Committee leaders continued pressing the Obama Administration to explain how it granted more than 1,400 waivers exempting groups from President Obama's health care law. They also questioned how more than 20 percent of the waivers issued in April went to the home district of House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA). Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Health Care, District of Columbia, Census and the National Archives Subcommittee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-SC) called on President Obama's Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) Kathleen Sebelius in a letter sent August 3, to provide to the Committee detailed information about the waiver process and factors involved in deciding which organizations did—and did not—receive waivers. "The Obama Administration has implemented a policy that picks winners and losers—all without disclosing how and why these selections were made. The public has a right to know what justification they used to exempt businesses, unions and other organizations from compliance with Obamacare," Chairman Issa said. "At a time when many businesses are struggling to create jobs and grow the economy, this has the potential to create an unfair advantage for some politically-connected businesses, while others are left to suffer the consequences of onerous government regulations," Issa added. "Through an amorphous process shrouded in ambiguity and understood by few, the Administration has granted exemptions from Obamacare's onerous requirements to hundreds of organizations. The American people deserve to know what standard of review Secretary Sebelius utilized and why the geographic distribution of granted waivers appears to be so distorted. I look forward to working with Chairman Issa as we continue to ensure political favoritism does not trump fundamental fairness," Gowdy said. The Committee has requested that HHS deliver by August 17 documents and information including a copy of every waiver application and supporting materials. In addition, the committee asked for information about the internal evaluation of each waiver application. Thus far, HHS has delivered only applications denied as of March 10. Because HHS has since decided to eliminate the entire waiver process effective September 22, Issa and Gowdy also raised concerns about the fairness of this process. They asked that HHS provide a full explanation of the shutdown process as well as documents and questions about stakeholder surveys and communications to assess a possible shutdown. "If the Department continues to demonstrate an unwillingness to cooperate with the Committee's investigation, we will be forced to consider compulsory process," Issa and Gowdy wrote. A copy of the letter is available here. # # #
08.08.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. - House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) issued a subpoena to the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) and Acting General Counsel Lafe Solomon August 7 as part of its investigation into NLRB action against the Boeing Company. It compels NLRB to comply with earlier, outstanding Committee document requests submitted in May. NLRB is compelled to produce identified materials to Committee offices no later than 12:00 p.m. August 12. "NLRB's action in the case against Boeing has the potential to create a job-killing precedent just as U.S. manufacturers are working toward economic recovery. That a Washington, D.C.-based bureaucracy could dictate the work location and parameters for a world-leading company is unprecedented in a global economy and hobbles a leading American job creator at a time of economic vulnerability," Issa said. Chairman Issa added, "President Obama and both Democratic and Republican Members of Congress have questioned the wisdom behind NLRB's actions against Boeing. As this matter could take years to resolve and create even more crippling uncertainty for job creators, it is imperative that Congress get complete facts about NLRB's rational and its decision making process in this matter without further delay." The NLRB subpoena requests documents dating from January 1, 2009 covering the following: Documents in the custody or control of the Office of the General Counsel or the National Labor Relations Board referring or relating to the Boeing Company. Communications to or from any person in the Office of the General Counsel or the National Labor Relations Board referring or relating to The Boeing Company, including but not limited to all emails and call logs. Documents in the custody or control of the Office of the General Counsel or the National Labor Relations Board referring or relating to the International Association of Machinists. Communications to or from any person in the Office of the General Counsel or the National Labor Relations Board referring or relating to the International Association of Machinists, including but not limited to all emails and call logs. # # #
08.05.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) issued the following statement today as the United States Postal Service announced its third quarter losses for the current fiscal year. First-Class Mail volume was down over 6 percent compared to the same quarter last year. "The Postal Service's announcement of yet another multi-billion dollar loss underscores the need to enact meaningful reforms in order to avoid a taxpayer-funded bailout. These deficits clearly cannot be closed by bailing out the Postal Service with taxpayer money or allowing the postal service to amass obligations to employees, retirees, and taxpayers that are unlikely to be fully met in the future. "The increasing use of electronic, paper-free technology has caused a permanent decline in mail usage and the Postal Service must adapt its outdated brick-and-mortar model to meet current customer needs. Only serious cost-cutting structural reforms that reduce workforce costs and rightsize infrastructure can save the Postal Service and prevent a multi-billion taxpayer funded bailout." H.R. 2309, the Postal Reform Act of 2011, introduced by Chairman Issa and Rep. Dennis Ross, R-Fla., is the only legislation introduced this Congress that will return the Postal Service to solvency and avoid a multi-billion taxpayer funded bailout. Click here for more information about the Postal Reform Act. Copies of the third quarter financial results will be available later today on the Postal Service website: http://about.usps.com/who-we-are/financials/welcome.htm. ###
08.03.2011	(VIDEO RELEASE) WASHINGTON, DC – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) today released a video – "Brian Terry: Semper Fidelis & Honor First" - to honor U.S. Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry, who lost his life on December 15, 2010 after being shot in the line of duty in Rio Rico, AZ. Chairman Issa introduced the Brian A. Terry Memorial Act of 2011 last week to rename the Bisbee, AZ Border Patrol station in honor of Agent Terry. Click Here to Watch "Brian Terry: Semper Fidelis & Honor First" Issa Introduces Legislation to Honor Fallen Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry Facility Located in District of Rep. Gabrielle Giffords July 28, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC – The Border Patrol station in Bisbee, Ariz., will be renamed to honor the memory of agent Brian Terry who died December 15, 2010 after being shot in the line of duty. Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Chairman of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, introduced the bill in the House of Representatives July 27. "Our nation's Border Patrol agents have a distinguished history of working to protect our borders. Agent Terry, who served our nation through his military service and his career with the Border Patrol, gave his life defending this country. Naming the Bisbee station in his honor recognizes his sacrifice, service and heroism," Issa said. "In the past half-century, 70 U.S. Border Patrol agents – including Agent Terry – have been killed while protecting our nation," said Pia Carusone, chief of staff for Rep. Giffords (D-Ariz.), whose office worked with Issa on the legislation. "Congresswoman Giffords has led the fight for increased border security so Agent Terry and others will not have died in vain." Terry's family issued a statement, saying, "From the very start, Brian loved his job as a Border Patrol agent and loved his fellow agents. The new Naco Station named in Brian's honor will serve as a lasting memory for all those who knew Brian." In December 2010, Agent Terry was shot and killed while on patrol 14 miles north of the U.S.-Mexico border near Rio Rico, Ariz., during an armed confrontation with suspected criminals. Prior to joining the U.S. Border Patrol, Agent Terry served in the U.S. Marine Corps and served as a police officer in Michigan. Agent Terry's murder is linked to Operation Fast and Furious, a reckless program where federal law enforcement agencies knowingly allowed the trafficking of illegally purchased weapons into Mexico, arming drug cartels. The Oversight and Government Reform Committee is conducting an ongoing investigation to determine which U.S. officials are responsible for creating and authorizing the deadly program. The bill, H.R. 2668, the "Brian A. Terry Memorial Act," has 52 Democratic and Republican cosponsors including principal cosponsor Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-Md.), Ranking Member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee. The station, located at 2136 S. Naco Highway, is located in the district of Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (D-Ariz.) and is only the second border patrol station to be named for a fallen agent. The Border Patrol's Murrieta, Calif., station is named in honor of Agents Theodore L. Newton, Jr. and George F. Azrak, two agents killed on duty in 1967, by an earlier act authored by Rep. Issa. ###
08.01.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) today released the following statement on his intention to vote in support of the debt ceiling and spending cut plan negotiated over the weekend: "Today's debt plan is the first of several actions that Congress must take if it is to end the culture of government overspending and rapidly mounting national debt. Money from Washington has become the easy answer to every problem. We have to break that dependence and limit government spending to the revenues we take in – something families across the country do each month with their own budgets. The American people realize that the federal government can no longer spend without consequence and that they will get stuck paying the bill. "The Budget Control Act is not as far reaching and responsible as the Cut, Cap and Balance Act or the Path to Prosperity spending plan passed by the House of Representatives with my support earlier this year. Nonetheless, it moves the country in the right direction—without tax increases—and gives us a foundation to continue the conversation about our nation's spending priorities." # # #
07.29.2011	WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) today released the following video statement after the Budget Control Act of 2011 passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 218 to 210. CLICK HERE to watch Chairman Issa's Statement "The debt crisis is a result of years of overspending," Issa said in the video. "If we're going to end the crisis we need to both raise the debt limit and stop spending in Washington. We don't have a taxing problem in America but a spending problem." In a mere 30 months, President Obama's reckless spending has increased the national debt 35% to a record $14.3 trillion. The Budget Control Act changes this dangerous trajectory, according to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office. Key provisions of The Budget Control Act: • Cuts and caps spending by $917 billion over 10 years – more than the $900 billion debt hike • Achieves these real savings without raising taxes on American families and small businesses • Requires Congress pass a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution before considering any additional debt ceiling increases • Establishes a bicameral, bipartisan, 12-member committee tasked with reducing the deficit by an additional $1.8 trillion over the next ten years. Read the Budget Control Act of 2011 here. # # #
07.28.2011	Facility Located in District of Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (WASHINGTON, D.C.) – The Border Patrol station in Bisbee, Ariz., will be renamed to honor the memory of agent Brian Terry who died December 15, 2010 after being shot in the line of duty. Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Chairman of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, introduced the bill in the House of Representatives July 27. "Our nation's Border Patrol agents have a distinguished history of working to protect our borders. Agent Terry, who served our nation through his military service and his career with the Border Patrol, gave his life defending this country. Naming the Bisbee station in his honor recognizes his sacrifice, service and heroism," Issa said. "In the past half-century, 70 U.S. Border Patrol agents – including Agent Terry – have been killed while protecting our nation," said Pia Carusone, chief of staff for Rep. Giffords (D-Ariz.), whose office worked with Issa on the legislation. "Congresswoman Giffords has led the fight for increased border security so Agent Terry and others will not have died in vain." Terry's family issued a statement, saying, "From the very start, Brian loved his job as a Border Patrol agent and loved his fellow agents. The new Naco Station named in Brian's honor will serve as a lasting memory for all those who knew Brian." In December 2010, Agent Terry was shot and killed while on patrol 14 miles north of the U.S.-Mexico border near Rio Rico, Ariz., during an armed confrontation with suspected criminals. Prior to joining the U.S. Border Patrol, Agent Terry served in the U.S. Marine Corps and served as a police officer in Michigan. Agent Terry's murder is linked to Operation Fast and Furious, a reckless program where federal law enforcement agencies knowingly allowed the trafficking of illegally purchased weapons into Mexico, arming drug cartels. The Oversight and Government Reform Committee is conducting an ongoing investigation to determine which U.S. officials are responsible for creating and authorizing the deadly program. The bill, H.R. 2668, the "Brian A. Terry Memorial Act," has 52 Democratic and Republican cosponsors including principal cosponsor Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-Md.), Ranking Member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee. The station, located at 2136 S. Naco Highway, is located in the district of Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (D-Ariz.) and is only the second border patrol station to be named for a fallen agent. The Border Patrol's Murrieta, Calif., station is named in honor of Agents Theodore L. Newton, Jr. and George F. Azrak, two agents killed on duty in 1967, by an earlier act authored by Rep. Issa. # # #
07.27.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. - House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) today released the following statement in support of Speaker John Boehner's debt plan: "Under Speaker John Boehner's leadership, the House of Representatives has advanced the most serious spending reforms considered during my tenure in Congress. From the House Republican Budget to the Cut, Cap and Balance plan passed last week, our proposals to rein in government spending have been serious, substantive and responsible. "The same cannot be said about the Democrats that control Washington. Neither Senator Harry Reid nor President Barack Obama have taken seriously the mandate from the American people to rein in out-of-control government spending, and in the case of Senator Reid, he has abdicated his responsibilities– offering no legislative alternative to the spending proposals that have passed the House. "In discussions with the White House and Senate over spending and the debt limit, Speaker Boehner has been the adult in the room, with a serious and substantive plan. He rightly left the negotiations when the President, by his own admission, moved the goal posts and demanded dramatically higher tax increases. "Some outside groups are comparing the upcoming vote on raising the debt limit to the vote on TARP. They are quite simply wrong. I was a leading opponent of TARP because it created a massive slush fund that invited abuse. It eroded moral hazard in the marketplace and placed the taxpayers on the hook to pay for the folly of Wall Street investment banks – it took the country in the wrong direction. "The debate today is over how much spending will be cut in exchange for an increase in the debt limit. That is movement in the right direction. Many of us, myself included, would like to go further and are disappointed by the bad faith that has become a hallmark of the White House and our Senate counterparts, and in fact we have voted for more substantive reforms. "Speaker Boehner has empowered members of our conference to be leaders and the results are reflected in the passage the Ryan Budget and Cut, Cap and Balance and he continues to ably represent us in negotiations over the debt limit. The result of those discussions, limited as they may be, will be a significant step in the right direction – toward fiscal responsibility and a government that lives within its means. The Speaker has my full support and the support of our conference as he negotiates on behalf of the House of Representatives and the American people." # # #
07.21.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) today released the following statement on news that the Obama Administration had closed the outstanding bailout loan to Chrysler at a $1.3 billion loss to taxpayers: "I am deeply disturbed to learn that the Obama Administration left $1.3 billion taxpayer dollars on the table in resolving its bailout of Chrysler. The Administration has sold out an American icon to a foreign company using TARP funds underwritten by taxpayers. Now they are essentially giving that same company $1.3 billion of taxpayer money. "This deal gives Fiat another channel for Italian-made cars to be sold and will let them receive a reliable revenue stream from American consumers for years to come, all with little or no money invested in the deal in the first place. "At a time when American taxpayers must make tough choices to repay their mortgages—even on houses worth less than they paid—it is unfathomable that Italian automaker Fiat and its subsidiary Chrysler got away with repaying less than the full amount borrowed from the U.S. government." # # #
07.20.2011	"Operation Fast and Furious: The Other Side of the Border" will examine accounts of agents based in Mexico Washington DC-- On Tuesday, July 26th, the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee will convene a hearing as part of the ongoing investigation into the Department of Justice's Operation Fast and Furious, a tragically flawed effort that is connected to deaths on both sides of the U.S./Mexico border. The Committee's previous hearing, Operation Fast and Furious: Reckless Decisions, Tragic Outcomes, featured ATF agents who testified they were ordered to let guns destined for Mexican drug cartels walk and heartbreaking testimony from the family of a U.S. Border Patrol agent whose murder is linked to guns that law enforcement chose not to interdict. This Tuesday's hearing, Operation Fast and Furious: The Other Side of the Border, will feature the testimony of U.S. law enforcement officials who witnessed a different side of the controversial operation. These officials saw the steady stream of Operation Fast and Furious guns recovered at crime scenes in Mexico and were given orders from superiors not to alert Mexican authorities. Members of the Committee will also have their first opportunity to question ATF supervisors who have defended Operation Fast and Furious and the Justice Department's decisions to committee investigators. "The Acting Director of the ATF has told congressional investigators that the Justice Department is attempting to shift blame in Operation Fast and Furious away from its political appointees," said Chairman Darrell Issa. "Examining the accounts of witnesses who did not participate in Operation Fast and Furious, but were nonetheless disturbed as they watched it unfold is critical to understanding the scope of this flawed program. This testimony is especially important in light of the Justice Department's willful efforts to withhold key evidence from investigators about what occurred, who knew and who authorized this reckless operation." Hearing Page- Check Here for Additional Information and to Watch the Hearing Live on Tuesday Operation Fast and Furious: The Other Side of the BorderFull Committee, Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif. 10:00 a.m. on Tuesday, July 26th in 2154 Rayburn House Office Building. Witnesses Mr. Carlos Canino – ATF Acting Attaché to Mexico Mr. Darren Gil – Former ATF Attaché to Mexico Mr. Jose Wall – ATF Senior Special Agent, Tijuana, Mexico Mr. Lorren Leadmon – ATF Intelligence Operations Specialist Mr. William Newell – Former ATF Special Agent in Charge, Phoenix Field Division Mr. William McMahon – ATF Deputy Assistant Director for Field Operations (West, including Phoenix and Mexico) ###
07.19.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. —Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) today released the following statement about the upcoming House of Representatives vote on the Cut, Cap, and Balance Act: "The American people know the solution to our debt crisis—they do it every month: restrict spending to income. "The Cut, Cap, and Balance Act addresses our federal spending problem. Beginning October 1, the bill would cut $111 billion from government spending. Then, for the next 10 years, federal spending would be tightly capped and save taxpayers $5.8 trillion dollars. Significantly, it achieves these savings, and provides a debt ceiling increase as America gets its fiscal house in order. "Out of control spending is crippling our economy, starving the engines of growth and racking up massive debt for future generations. We've been saddled with $3.5 trillion in new debt since the Obama Administration took office. The federal government's over-spending has got to stop— the Cut, Cap and Balance Act gives us the tools to achieve this goal, and get the economy back on the road to recovery." # # #
07.11.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.—House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) today released the following statement regarding an executive order covering federal independent agency regulatory reform issued today: "President Obama's regulatory reform executive order issued today is a step in the right direction—it is constructive that he heeded the advice from many who said his regulatory initiatives must also apply to independent agencies. "We must, however, do more than just examine rules and regulations—we must cut and fix where necessary and also solve problems that are identified in the rulemaking process in general. Doing this will have an immediate impact on job creators and will help put us on the path to real economic recovery." # # #
07.11.2011	WASHINGTON- Congressman Darrell Issa in a letter today to the American Postal Worker Union (APWU) asks the union to cancel a misleading ad campaign that falsely claims the United States Postal Service (USPS) does not receive taxpayer support when it does, in fact, receive hundreds of millions of dollars of taxpayer money through preferential tax treatment and other benefits. "A December 2007 report from the Federal Trade Commission includes a long list of implicit subsidies the Postal Service receives that are not available to private companies," said Issa in the letter to APWU President Cliff Guffey. The letter notes that "the Postal Service is exempt from, among other items, federal, state, and local income tax, all state and local taxes (including property tax), and vehicle registration and titling fees." The letter also notes that USPS has access to borrowing directly from the United States Treasury at very low rates. As of the end of Fiscal Year 2010, the Postal Service had $4.1 billion in debt with an interest rate below 0.3% as well as an additional short-term revolving credit line of $3.4 billion at an interest rate of 0.206%. Noting that these subsidies are worth hundreds of millions of dollars annually, Issa asked the union not to mislead the American people. "While you and I have significant differences of opinion on how the Postal Service should be reformed, I believe we must be clear about the underlying facts. I ask you not to engage in a campaign to mislead the American people." Issa, the author of the only legislation introduced this Congress which would return the Postal Service to solvency, has also called on the Postal Service and their allies to recognize that the decline in revenue is permanent, driven by the transition to electronic, paperless technology and not temporarily by the recession. Issa debunked these myths and others in a "Myth vs. Fact" paper published last week. Click here for a copy of Issa's letter to APWU. # # #
07.08.2011	Washington, D.C.—House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement on the June unemployment report released today: "Today's unemployment report is, as The Atlantic wrote, 'all bad.' The total number of unemployed Americans is up 545,000. The percentage of working adults is 58.2 percent – smaller than at any point during the recession. Now at 40 weeks, the U.S. labor force just broke a record for the longest average duration of unemployment—ever. "President Obama and the Democratic-led Senate, should take action on House Republican's job creation agenda. Pursuing more job killing regulations like the energy production permitoriums in the Gulf of Mexico and Appalachia or the action against Boeing's new workers in South Carolina is a recipe for more stagnation. Less regulation and red tape, a streamlined regulatory process and lower tax burdens are the recipe for economic success." # # #
06.29.2011	Washington, DC - House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa released the following statement on President Obama's comments at his press conference today on Operation Fast and Furious: "President Obama's remarks today on Operation Fast and Furious were disappointing. There was no sign of urgency to provide answers or explain why no one at the Justice Department has accepted responsibility for authorizing an illegal gunwalking operation six months after Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry's murder. The American people expect more from the President than unsubstantiated assertions that the Attorney General didn't know about this reckless program and no explanation about who authorized it." # # #
06.23.2011	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) today praised the passage of the America Invents Act (H.R. 1249) that advanced from the House of Representatives by a vote of 304 to 117. The legislation, for which Issa is an original cosponsor, will substantively reform the United States patent system to better protect intellectual property rights and the ability to create profits and jobs from American innovation. It is the first comprehensive patent legislation to be approved by Congress in close to sixty years. "Reforming the United States patent system for innovators and job creators has been one of my top priorities since becoming a member of Congress. With the passage of the America Invents Act today, the House of Representatives brought the country one critical step closer to a patent system that streamlines the approval of new discoveries and unleashes American creative entrepreneurialism in the global marketplace. It is about both innovation and jobs. "As a patent holder myself, I can say that the America Invents Act will help tremendously to expedite the patent approval process so that new ideas can make their way into the marketplace much sooner. The tort reform language I worked to include in the bill will additionally disqualify hundreds of predatory lawsuits that bankrupt small businesses and cost patent-holding companies millions of dollars in legal fees each year. "I'm proud of the bipartisan collaboration that went into the America Invents Act. For six years I have worked closely with other members of Congress to help craft this legislation that will take great strides toward helping small and large American innovators obtain patents for their quality work in a timely, cost-effective manner. With this modernization, American companies will have the license to grow and compete, and the United States will remain a magnet for the world's greatest minds and the source of its landmark discoveries." Since 1992, nearly $1 billion has been diverted from the US Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) through Washington budget maneuvers. Currently the PTO has a backlog of over 700,000 patent applications which represent American inventions waiting to be introduced to the marketplace. The America Invents Act grants the PTO access to all of its own inventor user fees in order to expedite the patent approval process. It also moves the United States to a Constitutionally-sound and globally competitive "First-Inventor-to-File system." Congressman Issa is one of a small number of patent-holding members of Congress, with thirty-seven registered to his name. He has worked for eleven years on patent reform legislation and for the past six on the America Invents Act. Similar legislation (S. 23) recently passed the Senate overwhelmingly with ninety-five voting in support. Industry leaders, academic institutions, and inventors additionally stand in support. # # #
06.23.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Seeking to prevent another taxpayer bailout, Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif., chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, introduced today legislation to implement sweeping, structural reforms of the United States Postal Service (USPS). The legislation represents the most fundamental reform of the postal service that has been proposed since USPS was first created from the old Post Office Department. "The Postal Service lost $8.5 billion last year. It is going to lose, at least, $8.3 billion this year. And it is projected to lose $8.5 billion the year after that," Issa said. "Congress can't keep kicking the can down the road on out of control labor costs and excess infrastructure of USPS and needs to implement reforms that aren't a multi-billion dollar taxpayer funded bailout." The legislation creates the Postal Service Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority (Authority) which will have a broad mandate to restructure the Postal Service and reduce costs in order to bring the institution back to fiscal solvency when the Postal Service goes into default to the Federal government. The Authority will be disbanded once USPS meets several benchmarks that ensure financial health. The legislation empanels a separate body, the Commission on Postal Reorganization (CPR) to review postal infrastructure and recommend closures and consolidations to Congress, that will ultimately save the Postal Service at least $2 billion a year. If Congress does not reject the CPR's recommendations, they become law. The legislation will also remove several legal hurdles that USPS currently faces when it comes to reducing costs, including allowing financially unsustainable retail postal facilities to be closed. "This legislation encourages USPS to modernize its retail network and enables USPS to act more like a business," Issa said. The legislation will eliminate the benefit disparity between the postal workforce and other federal employees, which would have saved $700 million in fiscal year 2010, and it will ensure that postal wages are comparable to the private sector. The bill will also make several changes to USPS revenue and contracting policies. Issa introduced the bill the day after USPS announced it would stop paying the employer share of its employees' retirement fund. "USPS has felt the need to give themselves a taxpayer-funded bailout. This unprecedented action indicates the urgent need for these reforms," Issa said. The changes in the Postal Reform Act that can be currently quantified will save USPS at least $6 billion per year when fully in effect. The Authority will be required to make additional adjustments to bring costs into line with expenditures in order to avoid the prospect taxpayer bailouts in the future. Highlights of the Postal Reform Act include: Postal BRAC: Creates the Commission on Postal Reorganization to eliminate costly excess capacity and facilities. Over its first year the CPR will recommend closures worth $1 billion/year for post offices. Over the second, it will recommend $1 billion/year closures for mail processing and a 30% reduction in management facilities. Solvency Authority: Creates an Authority modeled on and named after the DC Control Board with a mandate to cut costs, protect universal service, and return USPS to financial solvency. The Authority is triggered into existence when USPS goes into default on any obligation to the federal government for more than 30 days. It has the authority to require renegotiation of existing collective bargaining agreements and the power to unilaterally modify those agreements if renegotiation fails. To accomplish its mission, the Authority may use a supplemental borrowing authority of $10 billion, backed by USPS property as collateral. 5-Day Delivery: Allows USPS to move to 5-day delivery of mail. Pay Comparability: Clarifies existing law to include wages and benefits in determining total compensation comparability with the entire private sector. Health and Life Insurance: Requires USPS employees to pay the same health and life insurance premium percentage as other federal workers. This provision is phased in to apply to union employees after their current bargaining agreements expire. Mediation Arbitration: Modifies the collective bargaining process to the 2003 Presidential Commission recommended mediation-arbitration process. Also requires arbitrators to take into account total compensation comparability and the financial situation of the Postal Service in any decision. Cost Coverage: Requires all market-dominant products to cover costs, while maintaining the CPI price cap. Underwater Products: For classes below 90% cost coverage, rates are increased by 5% annually above the price cap. Non-Profit Discount: The non-profit advertising discount is reduced by 5% a year from 40% to 10% of the most closely corresponding class. Political Committees: Ends the rate preferences for national and state political committees. Advertising: Authorizes USPS to sell advertising space on USPS facilities and vehicles. All advertising must maintain at least 200% cost coverage and be consistent with USPS's integrity. State Government Services: Authorizes USPS to provide services for state governments that enhances USPS's value to the public. Such services must not interfere with or detract from the value of postal services. Contracting accountability and transparency: Reaffirms accountability for delegations of contracting authority and requires their disclosure when outside the functional contracting unit. Requires disclosure of most noncompetitive purchase requests above $250,000. Contracting ethics: Requires USPS to establish regulations to prevent conflicts of interest in the contracting area, with ethics officials reviewing any ethics issues that arise. Read a copy of Issa's legislation here. ###
06.23.2011	Washington, D.C. —House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) today released the following statement regarding the Obama Administration's announcement of a release from the strategic petroleum reserve: "The President's temporary move on energy prices is a small step, but this one temporary measure will do nothing to unwind the long term costs of his policies that are blocking increased domestic energy production and hurting our economy. "Ultimately, these policies will only increase our dependence on foreign oil, and—as our committee has repeatedly heard—push good paying energy production jobs overseas. "The Obama Administration has thus far shown more interest in rewarding allies and special interests in the environmental lobby who advocate a slew of new rules, regulations and red tape than it has in enacting an agenda to expand domestic energy production to create jobs and grow the economy." A link to a recent committee report on Obama Administration barriers to domestic energy production and job creation is here. # # #
06.22.2011	Washington, D.C. - House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) tonight released the following statement regarding President Obama's announcement regarding U.S. forces in Afghanistan: "The counterinsurgency strategy implemented by General David Petraeus and other military leadership continues to show results in Afghanistan. Marines and service members have performed remarkably to advance the mission under difficult circumstances. I applaud their efforts and look forward to their safe return home. "Like many Americans, I want to see the prompt return of our troops and the successful completion of their mission. Unfortunately, their progress is being undermined by corruption in Kabul. We have yet to see the necessary leadership from President Karzai and from President Obama to address this pervasive problem within the Afghan government. Establishing the confidence of the Afghan people in their government is an essential component in achieving our objective of handing over a stable and secure Afghanistan. President Obama could do far more to advance our ultimate success and timely return of our forces by engaging President Karzai to root out corruption in the Kabul government. I hope that the speech tonight is not more lip service and that President Obama commits himself to the task." # # #
06.22.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) welcomed Perris High School Senior Miguel Martinez to the United States Capitol to celebrate his winning submission to the 2011 Congressional Art Competition. Miguel, who will attend Mt. San Jacinto Junior College in the fall with plans to transfer to the University of California to study art, met Congressman Issa and joined champion high school artists from throughout the United States for a ceremony in their honor and a tour of the Capitol grounds. "Miguel is a talented artist and I congratulate him on winning this year's Congressional Art Competition for California's 49th District," Congressman Issa stated. "I'm confident that the thousands of visitors who see his artwork displayed in the Capitol this next year will be just as impressed." "I have always loved to express myself through art," Miguel Martinez said while visiting with the Congressman. "I feel honored and privileged to be named Congressman Issa's 2011 Congressional Art Competition winner. I am very grateful for the amazing opportunity of having my art displayed in the nation's Capitol." Miguel writes that his original piece, titled Sincerus, highlights the sincere parts of men, specifically the heart, in spite of worldly brokenness. It was drawn with colored pencils. An independent panel of 49th District residents judged all art competition submissions from Congressman Issa's district. Art competition winners are selected from each Congressional District within the United States. For the year following their recognition at the Capitol, winners' artwork is displayed in the Capitol complex. For more information about the Congressional Art Competition and other opportunities for students through Congressman Issa's Office, visit www.issa.house.gov. # # #
06.16.2011	WASHINGTON - Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., issued the following statement in response to the Senator Mark Warner, D-Va., introducing today companion legislation to H.R. 2146, the Digital Accountability and Transparency Act. Information on Chairman Issa's version of the DATA Act can be found here. Statement of Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif. "I applaud Senator Mark Warner for introducing the companion bill to the DATA Act in the Senate today. The bureaucratic and programmatic barriers to a transparent and accountable government were not created by one party or by one chamber of Congress. Creating the transparent and accountable government the American people deserve will require bipartisan and bicameral teamwork. I look forward to working closely with Senator Warner to pass the DATA Act and establish – for the first time – a comprehensive federal spending transparency system." # # #
06.13.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., issued the following statement in response to the Vice President's announcement of a White House executive order on transparency in federal spending. Information on Chairman Issa's legislation, the Digital Accountability and Transparency Act, can be found here. Statement of Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif. "The American people have a right to know how their money is being spent. There is common ground and bi-partisan support for legislation to increase transparency and openness in all federal spending because the problem we face is not a partisan one, it is a bureaucratic one. The bureaucracy is resistant to change. That's why we need to enact legislation and establish a permanent and independent board to create transparency in federal spending. When I met with Vice President Biden in November, we both shared a vision of increased transparency in all federal spending. We are on the same page on the goals we want to achieve. The Vice President cited numerous leaders in the House and Senate of both parties who are ready to work on legislation to build a transparent and accountable government, and I look forward to working with my colleagues and the administration to make that vision a reality." # # #
06.13.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif., Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a long-time advocate for open government, will today introduce the Digital Accountability and Transparency Act, or DATA Act, which will establish an independent body to track federal spending, including grants, contracts, loans and agencies' internal expenses, on a single electronic platform, using consistent reporting standards and data identifiers, and making all of the information available to the public. "Americans have the right to know what their government is doing with their money," said Issa. "Incompatible technologies, inaccurate data, and a lack of common standards impede transparency. The Digital Accountability and Transparency Act will revolutionize the accessibility of government information." "Today we have 'analog transparency', in the sense that anybody can file endless Freedom of Information Act requests with one hundred plus separate federal agencies and receive, maybe, after months, thousands of pages of scanned documents that, if carefully perused, might yield up the same information that ought to be able to be derived with a keystroke." The DATA Act makes several major pro-transparency reforms, including: • Establishing a universal standard of recipient reporting for money received from the federal government directly to an independent database. This has widely been credited as the key to the success of the Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board in catching and preventing fraud, waste, and abuse in stimulus spending. • Collecting all agency expenditure data and combining it with the recipient reported data. This will allow agencies, Congress, and citizen watchdogs to discover waste and inefficiency in government and expose systematic financial management problems that lead to improper payments. • Creating a permanent successor to the Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board, the body established by the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act to ensure transparency, and giving that board similar powers to ensure all federal spending is transparent to the public. The new board is designated as the Federal Accountability and Spending Transparency Board (FAST Board). • Directing the new FAST Board to establish common identifiers and consistent reporting standards for all federally collected data. The FAST Board will be tasked solely with receiving, organizing, and publishing federal spending information. Chairman Issa first met with Vice President Biden in November of last year to discuss spending transparency and using the Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board as a model for building a transparent and accountable government. Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board Chairman Earl Devaney will testify at an Oversight Committee hearing on federal spending transparency and the solutions that the bill proposes on Tuesday. The text of the legislation can be viewed here. A section by section summary of the legislation can be viewed here. # # #
06.10.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa today made the following statement on the Nuclear Regulatory Commission Inspector General's report that criticized Chairman Gregory Jaczko: "The NRC Inspector General's report paints an embarrassing picture of a bully whose use of deceit and manipulation is ruining the integrity of a respected independent regulatory agency. It's quite clear that closer Congressional scrutiny of the NRC and the role the Obama Administration's agenda has played in Chairman Jaczko's unilateral actions is warranted and necessary." Click here to read the Inspector General's report. # # #
06.06.2011	WASHINGTON- For every three federal employees that retire, only one new employee will be hired, according to H.R. 2114, the Reducing the Size of the Federal Government Through Attrition Act of 2011 introduced by House Oversight and Government Reform Committee leaders. Drawing on recommendations from the President's National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif., Rep. Dennis Ross, R-Fla., and Rep. Jason Chaffetz, R-Utah, introduced the bill designed to reduce the size federal workforce by 10% by 2015. The bill allows for one federal employee to be hired to replace every three that retire or leave their job. The Commission's proposal has been estimated to save taxpayers $127.5 billion over ten years. The legislation fulfills a policy recommended in the Fiscal Year 2012 House Budget Resolution. "In 1996, Bill Clinton declared the era of big government to be over. From January 1994 to December 2000, the Administration and Republicans in Congress worked together to reduce the size of the federal workforce by 381,000," said Issa, the committee's chairman. "Because of explosive growth in the federal workforce in this Administration, these accomplishments have been erased. This bill will help us reverse the growth curve." "We need to take action now" said Ross, whose subcommittee examined the issue at a hearing titled, Rightsizing the Federal Workforce, last week. "Office of Personnel Management projections suggest approximately 400,000 federal employees are currently eligible for retirement. As these workers leave, we cannot let this opportunity to save taxpayer money pass." Chaffetz, who also sits on the House Budget Committee, said: "The American people deserve a federal government that is smaller, leaner, and more efficient. When the House overwhelmingly adopted the Path to Prosperity budget, we declared the era of unlimited growth in federal government size and spending must come to an end. Private sector job creators and families in my district have learned to do more with less. So should the federal government." The legislation ensures agencies do not abuse the use of service contracts to get around the reduction in the size of their workforce, but it does not prohibit agencies from saving taxpayer money through competition. A full copy of the text of the legislation can be viewed here. # # #
06.01.2011	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) offered this statement upon hearing the news of the passing of former California Treasurer Matt Fong: "Matt Fong was known for bold leadership—he prominently left the Democratic Party in 1988 feeling the Party had left him behind. He then joined the Republican Party where he later became one of California's most outspoken elected officials on issues of tax discipline and minding the state's fiscal house during his service on the Board of Equalization and as State Treasurer. He brought to public service that rare blend of legal expertise and business acumen. "Matt Fong was a principled, fiscally disciplined and inspirational public servant and elected official—and he was taken from us at far too young an age. "His wife Paula and children are in our prayers." # # #
06.01.2011	(WASHINGTON)—House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement on tonight's House vote on the question of raising the debt ceiling: "The American people have shown their willingness to sacrifice through tough economic times and Congress should follow their lead. "Government debt is crushing our economic growth potential and saddling future generations with a crippling burden. Every dollar the government spends comes from either the taxpayers or is borrowed. Every dollar of spending that is cut is a dollar more that is left in the private sector to be reinvested, directly or indirectly, towards economic expansion and job creation. "Making real spending cuts is just as important as avoiding default—you cannot do one without the other." # # #
05.31.2011	(WASHINGTON) -- House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement regarding President Obama's nomination of John Bryson to serve as Secretary of Commerce: "With gas prices at nearly four dollars a gallon, it's certainly eye-catching that President Obama has nominated a founder of an organization that opposes efforts to increase domestic oil production to serve as the nation's key advocate for our economic interests. The nomination of John Bryson to lead the Department of Commerce seems deeply out-of-touch with our current energy challenge. "Another green evangelist pushing failed talking points on the cap-and-trade energy tax and European style gas prices is not who most Americans want to have at the helm of efforts to expand trade and grow our economy." # # #
05.26.2011	Washington, D.C.-Sen. James Inhofe (R-OK), Ranking Member on the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, along with Senator Olympia Snowe (R-ME), and Congressmen Bilbray (R-CA), Dan Boren (D-OK), Darrell Issa (R-CA), and Jim Moran (D-VA) today introduced bipartisan, bicameral legislation, which allows for a more sensible implementation of corn-ethanol policy while encouraging greater competition in the pursuit of advanced biofuels. The bill, The Fuel Feedstock Freedom Act (S. 1085), gives individual States the option not to participate in the corn ethanol portion of the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS). It also expands the cellulosic biofuel carve-out to include algae and any non-ethanol renewable fuel derived from renewable biomass. This new feedstock-neutral definition will encourage the use of renewable feedstocks such as algae, while promoting the production of drop-in fuels, which are both engine friendly and can be readily blended and transported in the nation's existing distribution infrastructure. Senator Inhofe: "I am pleased to introduce this bill which allows fuel markets to respond to consumer demand for ethanol free gasoline where it exists. The ethanol portion of the RFS has been a top concern in my home state of Oklahoma: ethanol decreases fuel economy and in some instances can cause engine damage. This bill provides a common-sense solution. With strong bipartisan, bicameral support, I hope the Fuel Feedstock Freedom Act will have a good chance of success, and I look forward to joining my colleagues as we work to pass this bill." Senator Snowe: "While I strongly support cost-effective methods to reduce our dependence on foreign oil, our policies must reflect the practical geographical restrictions of federal corn-ethanol mandates as well as the opportunities for advanced biofuels. I appreciate Ranking Member Inhofe's leadership in ensuring that the states are also involved in energy decisions that significantly affect fuel consumers throughout the country and I look forward to working with my colleagues to improve the Renewable Fuel Standard by passing this legislation into law." Rep. Bilbray: "This bi-partisan bill will allow states to get out from under a crushing federal mandate that pollutes our environment and picks our pockets at the gas pump and grocery store. Rather than government picking winners and losers, this legislation allows our most promising clean fuel technologies of today and tomorrow to participate in the Renewable Fuel Standard." Rep. Issa: "Taxpayers have paid billions for the federal government's fixation on corn-based energy. And what have we to show for it? Higher prices at the grocery store. This legislation provides states with the flexibility to opt out of government's inefficient, costly ethanol mandate without being penalized. It's a solution long overdue, and its necessity is yet another reminder that the American people, not the federal government, are in the best position to decide which energy solutions work best for them." Rep. Moran: "The ethanol industry has long benefited from favorable tax treatment, an import tariff and most recently a renewable fuel mandate. The federal government plays a critical role in developing cleaner, alternative sources of energy, but the corn-based ethanol mandate in the 2005 and 2007 energy bills went too far. This bill offers a reasonable state-based option to pull back while promoting the growing field of advanced biofuels." Rep. Boren: "I am honored to join Senators Inhofe and Snowe, and my colleagues in the U.S. House, to introduce this legislation. It is a responsible and reasonable solution that provides the states with a greater role in determining how they meet the renewable fuel standard. I look forward to working with each of them to pass this legislation." Fuel Feedstock Freedom Act: Section Analysis Section 1. Broadens eligibility of the Cellulosic Biofuels Carve Out. The bill redefines "Cellulosic Biofuels" as "Next Generation Biofuels." The previously defined "Cellulosic Biofuel" carve out is expanded to include any non-ethanol renewable fuel derived from renewable biomass as well as ethanol derived from algae. This new feedstock neutral definition maintains the same volumetric and environmental performance requirements as currently applied to cellulosic biofuels. Section 2. Allows State Option of Non-participation. The bill allows a State the choice to not participate in the corn ethanol portion of the Renewable Fuel Standard mandate. If a State's legislature passes a bill in which the state elects to not participate in the corn ethanol portion of the RFS, and this bill is signed into law by the Governor, the EPA would then reduce the national volumetric mandate of corn ethanol by the percentage which reflects the national gasoline consumption that is attributable to that State. This option of non-participation would only apply to the corn portion of the RFS and would not affect any of the volumetric requirements for advanced biofuels. Generates Credits to Hold Fuel Sales Harmless. To mitigate disincentives caused by the corn portion of the RFS mandate toward providing clear gasoline in nonparticipating States, this bill allows for the generation of credits to hold harmless the delivery of clear gasoline in nonparticipating States. The EPA Administrator would provide for the generation of credits for all gasoline (regardless of whether the gasoline is blended) provided through fuel terminals in the nonparticipating State to be calculated as though the gasoline were blended with the maximum allowable ethanol content of gasoline allowed in that State. These credits would then be available to be applied toward the volumetric requirements of the corn portion of the RFS. # # #
05.26.2011	Washington, DC – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) issued the following statement on the Administration's efforts to address job-killing regulations: "Any effort on the part of the President to make the regulatory system more predictable, more transparent, and less onerous for job creators is progress—and I'll take it. Job creators, however, have made clear that the flawed regulations that hurt the most are new and proposed regulations that are unnecessarily expensive and sometimes impossible to implement. This announcement does not address underlying problems in a flawed process that often creates red tape which lacks common sense and imposes needlessly difficult and expensive burdens for businesses. Today's announcement does not address the 35 new regulations that the utility sector must contend with between 2009 and 2017, outrageously expensive green house gas regulations that will dramatically increase the cost of energy for all Americans, or other major regulatory efforts that are hampering job creation. The Oversight Committee and House Republicans will continue to press the Administration to do better." The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee has held 18 hearing this Congress on regulations that inhibit job creation. In January the committee released a report on regulations businesses identified as major impediments to job creation. Earlier this week, the Committee released a report and held a hearing that focused on Obama Administration regulations that raise the price of energy and kill job creation efforts. # # #
05.26.2011	Legislation Introduced in House and Senate to Bar Administration from Inserting Politics into Federal Contracting WASHINGTON, D.C. – Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, Rep. Tom Cole, and Small Business Committee Chairman Sam Graves today introduced legislation that would prohibit federal agencies from collecting or using information relating to campaign contributions and other political expenditures by potential contractors in the federal procurement process. In April, the Administration floated the idea of an Executive Order requiring federal agencies to collect information about the campaign contributions and other political expenditures of potential contractors before awarding any federal contract. On May 12th the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and House Small Business Committee held a joint hearing where the White House witness repeatedly refused to answer questions, including where the draft executive order came from and whether individuals outside the White House were involved in crafting it. The "Keeping Politics Out of Federal Contracting Act of 2011" reaffirms the fundamental principle that federal contracts should be awarded free from political considerations and be based on the best value to the taxpayers. Specifically, the bill would: • Prohibit a federal agency from collecting the political information of contractors and their employees as part of any type of request for proposal in anticipation of any type of contract; • Prohibit the agency from using political information received from any source as a factor in the source selection decision process for new contracts, or in making decisions related to modifications or extensions of existing contracts; and • Prohibit databases designed to be used by contracting officers to determine the responsibility of bidders from including political information (except for information on contractors' violations already permitted by law). "This legislation preempts an executive order designed to silence and intimidate job creators and Americans who are passionate enough to a support cause," said Chairman Issa. "Businesses should not have to determine and report to the government on whether certain employees contributed to organizations that support or oppose positions on issues including gay marriage and abortion. Imagine your employer asking for such information – it would happen for some if the current draft executive order is put in place." "The administration's proposal would effectively politicize the federal procurement process. Under the executive order, companies could be unfairly judged on the basis of politics as opposed to their professional capabilities," said Rep. Cole. "Government agencies should award contracts based on merit and value to taxpayers -- not politics. Americans should have the right to support the political candidates and causes of their choosing without fear that their income will be jeopardized. This legislation protects the rights of businesses and keeps politics out of the federal procurement process." "Forcing small businesses that are seeking government contracts to disclose political contributions will wrongly politicize the federal procurement process," said Chairman Graves. "Government contracts are supposed to be awarded based on merit, not political support. Both Republicans and Democrats agree that this is a bad idea because we need less politics in Washington, not more. In addition, Congress and the Supreme Court have both already weighed in on this topic, so an Executive Order would circumvent and disrespect the regular policy-making process." U.S. Senator Susan Collins, Republican Leader Mitch McConnell, and Senators Lamar Alexander and Rob Portman introduced a Senate companion bill. The text of the bill "Keeping Politics Out of Federal Contracting Act of 2011" can be found here. Click here for information about the Senate companion bill. # # #
05.24.2011	WASHINGTON — House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) today led a hearing and highlighted a new report documenting Obama Administration policies that negatively impact domestic energy prices. Members heard testimony from EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson and Deputy Interior Secretary David Hayes. "The United States has the largest reserves in the world—resources that can provide good paying American jobs and fuel our economic expansion. But standing between that energy and U.S. consumers is an obstacle course of government red tape, regulation, delays and obfuscations," Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) said. He pointed to statements by President Obama and Energy Secretary Chu about intentionally raising energy costs for Americans and how these goals are being implemented throughout the government. The committee's report found that while the Obama Administration touts nascent "green" energy technologies, U.S. domestic energy resources are currently the largest on earth—greater than Saudi Arabia, China and Canada combined. It also noted that recent EPA and Department of Interior regulatory actions, some in collaboration with environmental groups or outside normal scope, are having a detrimental impact on independent energy producers. "Viewed in tandem with Obama Administration efforts to slow production from the Gulf of Mexico, block "fracking" a technology that would increase domestic oil production by 40 percent in only five years, and stifle production on public lands, this can be seen as nothing less than a concerted campaign to raise the price of energy as a means to force the issue of green alternatives," Issa added. "Today's hearing exposed the many ways the government is limiting access to our vast natural resources. With this understanding, Congress can enact policies that support American businesses and consumers, rather than give more reasons to look overseas for economic opportunities and more favorable regulatory climates. A complete copy of the report can be viewed online here. The 42 page report, "Rising Energy Costs: The Intentional Result of Government Action" identifies numerous Administration efforts to suppress domestic oil and gas production that lead to higher costs while helping the Administration promote expensive alternative sources of energy.
05.18.2011	U.S. Small Business Week – Delivering Regulatory Reform through AmericanJobCreators.com WASHINGTON. D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) today issued the following statement in honor of our country's 27.2 million small businesses celebrating U.S. Small Business Week. Supporting small business success and delivering effective regulatory reform are central to Rep. Issa's work both for California's 49th Congressional District and as House Oversight Committee Chairman. Issa has launched AmericanJobCreators.com to listen to, and learn from, the private sector entrepreneurs struggling under the weight of more than 150,000 pages of federal fine print. "Small business is the backbone of our economy, but regulations coming from Washington prevent our job creators from growing and hiring," Issa said. "Entrepreneurs are telling us that government forces them to work longer and harder for less. Small Business Week is an important reminder that reckless spending and regulatory overreach cost real jobs, and stand between innovators and the American dream. That's why I'm committed to getting it right for our job creators with AmericanJobCreators.com." Small businesses often risk everything to make it in America, supporting 59.9 million workers and their families without asking for government bailouts or extra government burdens. The United States' 27.2 million small businesses – 3.2 million in California alone – represent 99.7 percent of all domestic employers, creating 65 percent of new jobs in America according to the United States Small Business Administration. Small business drives our country's innovation too, earning thirteen times more patents per employee than large firms. This success, however, is under siege by the growth of government rules and red tape. A 2010 study by the U.S. Small Business Administration revealed that American small businesses pay a disproportionate share of the cost of federal regulatory compliance. That expensive burden increased to $1.75 trillion per year in 2010. For outfits employing fewer than 20 workers, compliance with government regulation costs $10,585 per employee, without factoring in lost time and productivity. Small electrical contractor Jack Buschur testified before Issa's Oversight Committee that regulatory compliance costs him at least 20 percent of his time. "It has just been a real tough battle to survive the problems and the regulations being slapped on us," said Buschur in his testimony. "As someone who has grown a small business from scratch, I understand that our entrepreneurs today must compete in a global economy hobbled by Washington red tape," Issa continued. "Small business owners are telling us that this government is putting the American Dream out of reach. Unless we relieve the nearly $11,000 per employee regulatory burden for small business, a return to American prosperity and private sector job growth will remain elusive." AmericanJobCreators.com is a House Republican initiative to expose the true costs of government regulation and is a critical part of the ongoing conversation between Congressman Issa and the people of California's 49th Congressional District about the regulatory reform American small businesses need to support private sector job growth. # # #
05.11.2011	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Today, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) voted to end President Obama's de facto moratorium on American energy production in the Gulf of Mexico in favor of affordable American energy prices and American job creation. The Putting the Gulf Back to Work Act (H.R. 1229) offers specific time parameters for the Secretary of the Interior to approve permit applications for Gulf Coast drilling, codifies safety and accountability standards, and establishes an expedited judicial review process for resolving lawsuits pertaining to the issuance or denial of permits. It was approved by the House of Representatives by a bipartisan vote of 263-163. "As a direct result of President Obama's ban and subsequent 'permitorium' against all drilling in the Gulf of Mexico, American production has dropped, and our country's energy needs have become increasingly dependent on foreign governments," Congressman Issa stated. "Last month I asked voters in my District to tell me about the prices they were seeing at our local gas stations. At home in Vista, ours was $4.19. And of all the Southern Californians who responded, not a single person was seeing anything below four dollars a gallon. That's unsustainable for families, and we have the power to fix it. The Putting the Gulf Back to Work Act is part of the solution." "But this legislation is about more than four dollar and five dollar gas," Congressman Issa continued. "Americans depend on this industry for their livelihoods, and it's unforgivably shortsighted to say that a bureaucratic blockade on Gulf Coast drilling won't cost jobs in the energy industry and in manufacturing, engineering, travel and tourism, shipping, and the list goes on." The Obama Administration's response to the Deepwater Horizon failure was to impose a moratorium on all offshore drilling (both deep and shallow water) in the Gulf of Mexico – regardless of the individual merits and records of safety of the majority of rigs operating there. In the six months they officially enforced the moratorium, the Administration estimates that nearly 12,000 jobs were lost. In October 2010, the moratorium was lifted. But while their terminology may have changed, their behavior did not. The moratorium gave way to a dramatically slowed offshore permitting process that has overseen the reissuance of only eleven of the fifty-two permits for companies that had previously been authorized to work in the Gulf. Many businesses could not sustain the glacial pace. Accordingly, one operator filed for bankruptcy and twelve additional rigs left the Gulf to drill in other parts of the world – taking their business and jobs with them. The Putting the Gulf Back to Work Act is part of the American Energy Initiative to stop government policies that are driving up gas prices, expand American energy production to lower costs and create more jobs, and promote an "all of the above" strategy to increase all forms of American energy. Job losses resulting from the Gulf Coast moratorium on oil exploration and government permitting delays are additionally being combated through www.AmericanJobCreators.com, a forum for small business owners to detail the specific government rules that have stopped their growth, cut their workforce, and onerously hindered their productivity. Responses collected from small businesses across America will direct Congressman Issa and House Republicans as they pursue job-friendly federal regulatory reforms. # # #
05.06.2011	Issa Urges President Obama to Support California's Cut Flower Growers WASHINGTON, D.C. – Just in time for Mother's Day, Representative Darrell Issa (R-CA) is leading a bipartisan group of forty members of the California Congressional delegation in supporting the creation of a competitive playing field for the state's cut flower growers. With Issa as the lead Republican signer, the delegation last week delivered a letter to President Barack Obama urging his Administration to keep California's prized floral production industry in mind as it works to enact the United States-Colombia Free Trade Agreement. U.S. policies included in the Andean Trade Preferences Act have, in the past, provided considerable advantages to Colombian floral producers over domestic growers. The full text of the letter is available here. "The goal for California's floral industry sadly isn't job creation right now, it's job preservation. And the United States government has had a hand in their predicament," Congressman Issa stated. "As foreign growers have surged, the American entrepreneurs in this business have worked longer and harder and broken creative barriers to try and remain competitive. While our delegation continues to advocate to the Administration for fairness in this industry, Californians have an opportunity this Mother's Day to support California's flower growers." "We are fortunate to have Congressman Issa representing the concerns of California's flower farmers and helping us gain the attention and support necessary for our long term viability here in California," said Michael Anthony Mellano, Vice President of Growing for Mellano & Co. located in Oceanside, CA. "Having the Congressman's help to address our concerns with the pending free trade agreement with Colombia will help ensure that we can continue to supply California Grown Flowers, America's best source for locally grown flowers, to moms everywhere on Mother's Day." California's flower growers produce approximately 80 percent of domestically grown flowers, and account for almost 20 percent of all United States flower sales. 122,000 Californians are employed through this industry (14,000 directly by flower farms). But in recent years, the numbers of California flower farms and acreage dedicated to cut flower production have decreased while heavily subsidized Colombian floral production has increased 89 percent. A high profile example of the Colombian industry's success is found in California's own Tournament of Roses Parade where the vast majority of flowers are now imported from Colombia. Under the Andean Trade Preferences Act and through the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the U.S. has directed millions of dollars to Colombia's floral growers in an effort to fortify their legal economy. This comes in addition to the $210 million in subsidies and support approved by Colombia's own government between 2005 and 2009. Through innovation, product diversification, and sheer determination, California growers are aggressively working to remain competitive. In conjunction with the California Cut Flower Commission (CCFC.org), they have prioritized product quality and environmental sustainability. They are also in the final development phase for a new transportation and shipping center that is expected to reduce shipping costs 30 to 40 percent. Congressman Issa's support for California flower growers is part of a broader effort to reform government regulation and policies that stand as barricades to United States job creation. Visit www.AmericanJobCreators.com for more information. # # #
05.06.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA), Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today sent a letter to Congressional Budget Office (CBO) Director Douglass Elmendorf requesting that CBO provide an official cost estimate of President Obama's proposed "Civilian Property Realignment Act." The White House estimates the bill could save taxpayers as much as $15 billion by expediting the disposal of superfluous federal property. The Oversight Committee has legislative jurisdiction over policies affecting the disposal of federal civilian properties. "Our mission is to deliver American taxpayers a more efficient, effective government and implementing a streamlined process to dispose of excess federal property is crucial to achieving that goal," said Chairman Issa. "The federal government has struggled for decades to manage its civilian real property assets, so the Administration's framework building off the proven Base Closure and Realignment Commission is welcome. As Chairman of the Committee with jurisdiction over federal civilian real property disposal, I look forward to working with all stakeholders to save taxpayers potentially billions of dollars through the sale of unneeded government buildings and land." According to Office of Management and Budget (OMB) testimony delivered before Congress last month, the federal government has roughly 14,000 buildings and structures designated as "excess," and approximately 55,000 properties classified as "underutilized." It costs taxpayers nearly $1.7 billion annually to operate underutilized federal buildings, according to the Government Accountability Office (GAO). In June 2010, President Obama instructed federal agencies to generate at least $3 billion in savings through the consolidation and disposal of real property assets by the end of Fiscal Year 2012. Last month, OMB testified that agencies have identified $1.7 billion in savings toward that goal. ###
05.04.2011	WASHINGTON –Congressman Darrell Issa and Senator Chuck Grassley Tuesday pressed Attorney General Eric Holder to provide a complete and accurate accounting of the policy to allow guns to be purchased by known straw buyers and then transported across the border into Mexico. In a letter received yesterday from the Office of Legislative Affairs, the department once again denied any knowledge of the policy. The denial comes despite the documents that have been provided to the department that are contrary to the official stance. Issa and Grassley said in a response to Holder that they will continue to conduct constitutionally mandated oversight of the Justice Department and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives' policy to allow guns to be purchased by known straw buyers. "We are extremely disappointed that you do not appear to be taking this issue seriously enough to ensure that the Department's representations are accurate, forthcoming, and complete. We will continue to probe and gather the facts independently, as it has become clear that we cannot rely on the Department's self-serving statements to obtain any realistic picture of what happened," Issa and Grassley wrote. Grassley began looking into allegations brought forward by Agent John Dodson, and more than a dozen other ATF agents after the Justice Department Inspector General failed to investigate their concerns. The agents indicated that their supervisors kept them from stopping gun traffickers with the normal techniques that had been successfully using for years. They instead were ordered to only watch and continue gathering information on traffickers instead of arresting them as soon as they could. In the meantime, the guns were allowed to fall into the hands of the bad guys even as agents told supervisors that it could not end well. Many of the guns have subsequently been found in firefights along the border, including a December 14, 2010 firefight where Customs and Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry was killed. Grassley and Issa's requests for information from the Justice Department have gone mostly unanswered about what transpired at the ATF and the Department of Justice during the time when Terry was killed and the policies instituted during Project Gunrunner that allowed guns to be sold to known straw purchasers and moved across the border without intervention. As chairman of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Issa has begun issuing subpoenas to uncover the facts about how this reckless policy was approved. Here is a copy of Issa and Grassley's letter to Holder. Here is a copy of the May 2 letter to Grassley and the February 4 letter to Grassley. # # #
05.04.2011	What Attorney General Holder Won't Tell on Controversial Gun Operation, Documents Do WASHINGTON- At a House Judiciary Committee hearing yesterday, House Oversight Committee Chairman Darrell Issa confronted Attorney General Eric Holder on the DOJ's Operation Fast and Furious, a highly controversial operation where federal authorities facilitated the purchase of assault weapons for drug cartels and chose not to interdict them before being transported to Mexico. While Attorney General Holder was unwilling to provide answer about who at the Department of Justice authorized, knew about, and even whether he still defended Operation Fast and Furious, three new documents provide information that Attorney General Holder did not address in response to questions posed by Rep. Issa. "Two federal agents are dead," said Chairman Issa. "While Attorney General Holder and other top officials at the Justice Department have refused to address the reckless decisions made in Operation Fast and Furious that have created a serious public safety hazard, investigations led by Sen. Charles Grassley and I continue to receive information from deeply concerned insiders who believe those responsible for what has occurred cannot be trusted to investigate themselves." What the documents say that Attorney General Holder wouldn't: US Attorney for the District of Arizona Dennis Burke was in full agreement with the investigative strategy of allowing the transfer of firearms to continue A January 8, 2010 memo from the ATF Phoenix Field Division Office on Operation Fast and Furious noting the involvement of US Attorney for the District of Arizona Dennis Burke who was in "full agreement with the current investigative strategy." The memo states that "currently our strategy is to allow the transfer of firearms to continue to take place ... in order to further the investigation and allow for the identification of additional co-conspirators who would continue to operate and illegally traffic firearms to Mexican [Drug Trafficking Organizations]." Assistant Attorney General Lanny Breuer knew about and even approved a wiretap application for suspects targeted in Operation Fast and Furious over a year ago A March 10, 2010 memo from Assistant Attorney General Lanny Breuer authorizing a wiretap application and revealing his participation in and knowledge of Operation Fast and Furious. As Pressure from Congress has risen, DOJ officials are now scrambling to stop the practice of letting guns walk into Mexico A March 10, 2011 e-mail referencing a directive from the Deputy Attorney General ordering law enforcement agents not to "design or conduct undercover operations which include guns crossing the border." The e-mail clarifies that this includes "cases where we are working with the Mexican government to have them follow the vehicles once they are in Mexico. Watch Rep. Issa's exchange with Attorney General Holder: CLICK HERE to watch the Chairman Issa's exchange with Holder Key Moments: Holder: This operation has gotten a great deal of publicity. Issa: There are dead Americans as a result of this failed and reckless program. So I would say this hasn't gotten enough attention, has it Mr. Attorney General? ---- Issa: Mr. Attorney General, we're looking at you. We're looking at your key people who knew or should have known about this and whether or not your judgment was consistent with good practices and whether or not, instead, the Justice Department is basically guilty of allowing weapons to kill Americans and Mexicans. So will you agree to cooperate with that investigation, both on the House and Senate side? Holder: We'll certainly cooperate with all the investigations, but I'm going to take great exception to what you just said. The notion that somehow or other, this Justice Department is responsible for those deaths that you mentioned, that assertion is offensive. I want to tell you that - Issa: But what if it is accurate, Mr. Attorney General? ---- Issa: So what am I going to tell Agent Terry's mother about how he died at the hand of a gun that was videotaped as it was sold to a straw purchaser fully expecting it to end up in the hands of drug cartels? Holder: Well, you know, what we'll have to see exactly what happened with regard to the guns that are at issue there. And I've attended funerals, you know? This is something that – This isn't theoretical. It's not political. This is extremely real from me, as Attorney General. Issa: It is for us too. # # #
05.02.2011	WASHINGTON D.C. - Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista, CA), Chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and previously a member of the House Select Committee on Intelligence from 2006 until 2009, released the following statement on the news that Osama Bin Laden was killed in a U.S. operation in Pakistan: "Osama Bin Laden's death at the hands of American forces is a fitting end to the world's most notorious terrorist. While we celebrate this accomplishment and express our thanks for the efforts of our military, intelligence agencies, diplomatic corps, and allies we must remain mindful that other dangerous terrorists still remain at large. The killing of Bin Laden should serve as a reminder that those who engage in terrorism should not expect to meet justice at a day in court, but rather at any second of any night wherever they may try to hide. It is also a reminder of tragic losses caused by terrorism and an important time to keep victims and others who have suffered in our prayers." ###
04.21.2011	Washington, DC – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Darrell Issa released the following statement today in response to a draft Executive Order being circulated by the White House that would require companies that do business with the federal government to disclose contributions to some issue advocacy groups, while exempting labor unions or special interest groups who support the President's agenda. Rep Issa's statement appears below: "This order is a purely political act offered under the benign label of disclosure. The order would not impose the same requirements on the labor unions or other organizations who support the President. Furthermore, it unnecessarily politicizes the procurement process." "The administration is again attempting to achieve through regulation what they could not accomplish through legislation. This sleight of hand cannot continue as the President makes promises to work together while issuing highly political edicts that simultaneously circumvent the will of Congress and the Courts. Transparency and disclosure are serious issues that are essential to restoring Americans faith in their government. The President, here, is using them as a political hammer to strike at his opponents. They deserve more thoughtful consideration." ###
04.19.2011	SALINAS, CA- The Environmental Protection Agency is "engaging in a disturbing 'sue and settle' strategy" according to Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif., who held an oversight forum today in Salinas, California assessing the impact EPA actions have had on farmers and growers in his home state. "Our witnesses offered a powerful rebuke of the agency for their lack of outreach to the regulated community - which has resulted in significant regulatory threats to farmers and growers," said Issa who held the forum in his capacity as chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, which has been investigating regulatory impediments to job creation in various sectors since December. "Sue and settle," a term coined by Minnesota Democratic Rep. Colin Peterson, refers to the EPA's decisions to settle lawsuits from environmentalist organizations, by-passing the proper rulemaking channels and basic transparency and accountability standards under the guise of a "court-order." Of particular concern to Tom Nassif, the President of the Western Growers Association and a witness at today's forum, are Endangered Species Act lawsuits. Describing one suit as "the mother of all lawsuits," Nassif said "this case could cause severe economic harm and loss of jobs to tens-­‐of-­‐thousands of farmers, and cripple their ability to grow America's source of food and fiber on more than 112 million acres of farmland across the country, not just in California." Since February, Issa has been soliciting input from job creators through a website, www.AmericanJobCreators.com, and through a series of hearings on regulations. Witness Testimony Tom Nassif, President & CEO, Western Growers Association Jim Bogart, President, Growers-Shippers Association of Central California Richard Smith, Owner, Paraiso Vineyards Mike Jarrard, President & CEO, Mann Packing Co. Norm Groot, Executive Director, Monterey Farm Bureau Mark Murai, President, California Strawberry Commission & 3rd Generation Grower # # #
04.15.2011	WASHINGTON- Today the House of Representatives approved the visionary Fiscal Year 2012 budget by a vote of 235-193. Darrell Issa, R-Calif., chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform commented, "The Path to Prosperity budget sets the stage for critical cost-cutting reforms from the federal workforce that reduce the deficit and help grow our economy. The Oversight Committee has estimated that federal workforce reforms put forth in this budget will save $375 billion over 10 years by bringing public sector pay and benefits more in line with the private sector. We'll do this by enacting a true pay freeze through 2015 that prohibits non-performance based 'periodic step' increases, requires federal employees to contribute more to their retirement plan, reducing the taxpayer subsidy of the Federal Employee Retirement System, and by reducing – no later than 2014 – the size of the federal workforce by 10% through replacing every three departing workers with only one new employee." The proposals put forth in the FY2012 budget take their cue from the bi-partisan fiscal commission appointed by President Obama and chaired by Clinton White House Chief of Staff Erskine Bowles and former Wyoming Senator Alan Simpson. Read the House Budget Plan here. Details on federal workforce reforms are located on page 33. ###
04.15.2011	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), a member of the House Judiciary Committee, and Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-CA), a member of the House Committee on Energy & Commerce, today announced the introduction of the Creativity and Innovation Resolution (H. Con. Res. 42) which advances the case for strengthening protections for America's artists, creators, and innovators. "America is synonymous with out-of-the-box thinking and creative entrepreneurialism. Case in point, our recording industry," Congressman Issa stated. "Talented artists and performers create original work here and we've seen, time-and-again, that their investment yields returns in the form of economic activity and jobs for thousands. Intellectual property creators should not have to fear the threat of government mandates becoming an additional hurdle to their success." "Consumers deserve to enjoy the technology that's most appropriate to them," Congresswoman Anna Eshoo said. "The Creativity and Innovation Resolution simply says the government will not mandate specific technology that limits the way consumers listen to local news, information, and music." The Creativity and Innovation Resolution states that Congress should: Protect all Americans who create intellectual property and foster an economic environment that encourages American performers, creators, and innovators to take the artistic risks necessary in their careers to make quality work and spur the economy; and Oppose any mandate for the inclusion of terrestrial broadcast radio tuners in the manufacture or sale of mobile devices. For over 70 years, Congress has opted to exempt terrestrial radio broadcasters from paying the musicians and vocal artists who perform songs played on the radio. Webcasters, satellite radio providers, foreign over-the-air (terrestrial) stations, and cable companies are each required to pay for the music they broadcast – an inequity that disadvantages these multimedia platforms and propagates the continued uncompensated use of performers' art through terrestrial broadcasts. "The marketplace fosters product refinement and elevates technology and talent," Issa continued. "Congress' imposition of needless technology mandates on the wireless market would hurt consumers by creating tremendous harm to the innovation and creativity that continues to spring forward from this industry." Representative Issa, himself a holder of 37 registered U.S. patents, is a longstanding champion of intellectual property rights. In the 111th Congress he was an original cosponsor of the Congressional Performance Rights Act, legislation that would have amended the error in American copyright law that exempts over-the-air broadcasters from paying performers for their music when it is played on AM and FM radio stations. The United States Congress's failure to correct this disparity has set a troubling precedent abroad. Radio stations in other countries have seen the American example of exempting over-air stations and have decided not to pay for their use of American artists' work as well. Click here for a copy of the Creativity and Innovation Resolution, H. Con. Res. 42. # # #
04.15.2011	WASHINGTON- Today the House of Representatives approved the visionary Fiscal Year 2012 budget by a vote of 235-193. Darrell Issa, R-Calif., chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform commented, "The Path to Prosperity budget sets the stage for critical cost-cutting reforms from the federal workforce that reduce the deficit and help grow our economy. The Oversight Committee has estimated that federal workforce reforms put forth in this budget will save $375 billion over 10 years by bringing public sector pay and benefits more in line with the private sector. We'll do this by enacting a true pay freeze through 2015 that prohibits non-performance based 'periodic step' increases, requires federal employees to contribute more to their retirement plan, reducing the taxpayer subsidy of the Federal Employee Retirement System, and by reducing – no later than 2014 – the size of the federal workforce by 10% through replacing every three departing workers with only one new employee." The proposals put forth in the FY2012 budget take their cue from the bi-partisan fiscal commission appointed by President Obama and chaired by Clinton White House Chief of Staff Erskine Bowles and former Wyoming Senator Alan Simpson. Read the House Budget Plan here. Details on federal workforce reforms are located on page 33. ###
04.01.2011	Subpoena comes after ATF fails to meet earlier deadline WASHINGTON. D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), the Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform today announced the issuance of a subpoena to the Department of Justices' Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) for documents related to the highly controversial "Project Gunrunner." "The unwillingness of this Administration – most specifically the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms – to answer questions about this deadly serious matter is deeply troubling," said Chairman Issa. "Allegations surrounding this program are serious and the ability of the Justice Department to conduct an impartial investigation is in question. Congressional oversight is necessary to get the truth about what is really happening." On March 16, 2011, Chairman Issa wrote a letter to Acting Director Kenneth Melson of the ATF requesting specific documents related to Project Gunrunner, its "Fast and Furious" component, and records related to the death of Border Agent Brian Terry. ATF failed to meet the March 30th deadline for producing these documents and furthermore refused to voluntarily commit to any date for producing them. Media reports have raised questions about the handling of operations involving gun trafficking into Mexico – specifically the allegation that ATF has had a policy of permitting – and even encouraging – the movement of guns into Mexico by straw purchasers. This practice may have contributed to the deaths of hundreds on both sides of the border, including federal law enforcement agents. Sen. Charles Grassley (R-IA), who has also been pursuing the matter, recently stated, "I'm still asking questions and we're still getting the runaround from the Justice Department, [t]hey're stonewalling." President Obama recently stated that neither he nor Attorney General Holder authorized this operation. His statement did not specify whether Attorney General Holder was aware of this policy or who did authorize it. The Committee's investigation seeks answers to these questions and the true nature of Project Gunrunner. Documents subpoenaed and due to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform by April 13, 2011, include: Documents and communications relating to the genesis of Project Gunrunner and Operation Fast and Furious, and any memoranda or reports involving any changes to either program at or near the time of the release of the Department of Justice (DOJ) Office of the Inspector General report about Project Gunrunner in November 2010. Documents and communications relating to individuals responsible for authorizing the decision to "walk" guns to Mexico in order to follow them and capture a "bigger fish." Documents and communications relating to any investigations conducted by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) or any other DOJ component following the fatal shooting of Agent Brian Terry, including information pertaining to two guns found at the crime scene that may have been connected to Project Gunrunner. Documents and communications relating to any weapons recovered at the crime scene or during the investigation into the death of Agent Brian Terry. Documents and communications between ATF and the Federal Firearms Licensee (FFL) who sold weapons to Jaime Avila, including any Report of Investigation (ROI) or other records relating to a December 17, 2009 meeting "to discuss his role as an FFL during this investigation." A copy of the presentation, approximately 200 pages long, that the Group 7 Supervisor made to officials at ATF headquarters in the spring of 2010. Documents and communications relating to Operation Fast and Furious between and among ATF headquarters and Special Agent in Charge William D. Newell, Assistant Special Agents in Charge Jim Needles and George Gillette, Group Supervisor David Voth, or any Case Agent from November 1, 2009 to the present. The response to this component of the subpoena shall include a memorandum, approximately 30 pages long, from SAC Newell to ATF headquarters following the arrest of Jaime Avila and the death of Agent Brian Terry. Documents and communications relating to complaints or objections by ATF agents about: (1) encouraging, sanctioning, or otherwise allowing FFLs to sell firearms to known or suspected straw buyers, (2) failure to maintain surveillance on known or suspected straw buyers, (3) failure to maintain operational control over weapons purchased by known or suspected straw buyers, or (4) letting known or suspected straw buyers with American guns enter Mexico. ###
03.30.2011	WASHINGTON. D.C. Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), the Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today praised the House of Representatives' passage of H.R. 839, "The HAMP Termination Act:" "Despite clear evidence from SIGTARP, GAO and the Congressional Oversight Panel, the Treasury Department has repeatedly refused to face the facts and address shortcomings in this ineffective program," said Chairman Issa. "To many struggling Americans seeking permanent mortgage relief, HAMP offered little more than false hope. More homeowners have been kicked out of the program than have received permanent relief." "The oversight efforts of my Republican and Democratic colleagues on the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, including Rep. Patrick McHenry and Rep. Jim Jordan, were crucial to today's action by the House. Ending this program will help us reduce the deficit and end uncertainty in the housing market. Both actions will contribute to the only sustainable solution to the foreclosure epidemic: a broad-based, private-sector economic recovery." In 2009, Treasury predicted that HAMP (Home Affordable Mortgage Program) would allow 3 to 4 million homeowners to modify their mortgages in order to avoid foreclosure. However, according to Treasury's own analysis, only 607,607 homes were undergoing permanent modification while 808,354 modifications had been canceled. The House of Representatives passed H.R. 839 by a vote of 252 to 170. ###
03.30.2011	WASHINGTON- In advance of the debate on H.R. 471, the Scholarship for Opportunities and Results (SOAR) Act, Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif., chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement: "The D.C. Opportunity Scholarship Program is popular with District residents, cost-effective, and, most importantly, gives students from families of lesser means an opportunity to obtain an education they value. We know from experience that spending more money doesn't necessarily equate to better schools or give students and parents the kind of confidence independent evaluation has found Opportunity Scholarships provide. Opposition from teachers' unions and their political allies is not surprising, nor should it dissuade the House from passing this important bill." Chairman Issa is an original co-sponsor of the SOAR Act, introduced by Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, in January. The bill is scheduled to be taken up Wednesday in the House of Representatives. Senator Joseph Lieberman, I-Conn., has introduced companion legislation (S. 206). Click here for the text of H.R. 471 that was approved by the Oversight Committee earlier this month and will be before the full House of Representatives Wednesday. ###
03.30.2011	WASHINGTON - Today, on a bi-partisan vote of 225-195, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 471, the Scholarship for Opportunity and Results Act. Today's passage of the SOAR Act was another key step in the restoration of the popular, cost-effective, and successful D.C. Opportunity Scholarship program. Rep. Darrel Issa, R-Calif., chairman of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement: "President Kennedy once implored us to think of education 'as the means of developing our greatest abilities, because in each of us there is a private hope and dream which, fulfilled, can be translated into benefit for everyone and greater strength for our nation.' Today, the House of Representatives affirmed that the private hopes and dreams of the young men and women who have fought for and value their education are still of great importance to the nation." Chairman Issa is an original co-sponsor of the SOAR Act, introduced by Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, in January. Senator Joseph Lieberman, I-Conn., has introduced companion legislation (S. 206). Click here for the text of H.R. 471 that was approved by the House today. ###
03.23.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Senator John Ensign (R-NV) today announced the introduction of the Health Care Waiver Transparency Act which will require greater transparency in health care waiver applications. "The American people have a right to know the criteria the federal government is using to grant or deny health care law waivers," said Rep. Issa. "Congress shouldn't allow the curtain of secrecy that shaded negotiations of the new health care bill to now cover-up how the Administration is dealing with cases where the law threatens to cost Americans their health insurance or endure other hardships. This bill will shine some needed sunlight on what's happening." "Small businesses across my state have been struggling with the high costs of the health care law," said Sen. Ensign. "My amendment will require full transparency of waiver applications to ensure that larger employers and groups with political clout do not crowd out the small businesses who are being hit with the high costs of this unconstitutional law. Democrats continue to tout the benefits of the health care reform, yet some of their biggest political contributors such as labor unions are filing for waivers. The more than one thousand waivers that have already been granted should send a strong signal of how economically damaging this law is, and now more than ever we need to work toward full repeal." Highlights of the Health Care Waiver Transparency Act Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) shall: Publish detailed criteria to determine approval of an application submitted by a group health plan, health insurance issuer, employer, state, municipality, or other entity eligible for a waiver, adjustment or other compliance relief under the health reform law. Publish each application for a waiver on the HHS website. Publish the approval or rejection of each application and the reason for the decision on the HHS website. Prohibit preferential treatment to be given to an applicant based on political contributions or association with a labor union, a health plan provided for under a collective bargaining unit, or another organized labor group. Click here for the full text of H.R. 1184, the House version of the Health Care Waiver Transparency Act. # # #
03.22.2011	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform (OGR), and Rep. Joe Walsh (R-IL), a member of the OGR Subcommittee on Health Care, today announced the introduction of the Constitutional Protection Act – legislation that will delay the regulatory and administrative implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act until federal court challenges to its Constitutionality are resolved. "ObamaCare has twice been declared unconstitutional since it was forced through Congress just one year ago, but the Administration is moving full speed ahead on its implementation with little regard for these rulings," Representative Issa stated. "While ObamaCare remains, at best, in Constitutional limbo, it's beyond reckless to allow taxpayer dollars to be spent hiring new government regulators to oversee the creation of its massive and legally dubious bureaucracy. The Constitutional Protection Act will keep American families from losing their hard-earned money on a nonrefundable down payment for legislation that still hangs in the balance of the courts." "The war against ObamaCare is far from over. The battle continues in the courts, and likely will make it all the way to the Supreme Court," said Congressman Walsh. "At a time when our country faces an unsustainable $14 trillion debt, it is fiscally reckless to fund this morally odious and thoroughly unconstitutional piece of legislation while we wait for a final ruling." To date, there are two pending federal challenges to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act's individual health care mandate – one from the state of Virginia and the other from Florida. Other states listed as plaintiffs in these suits include: South Carolina, Nebraska, Texas, Utah, Louisiana, Alabama, Michigan, Colorado, Pennsylvania, Washington, Idaho, South Dakota, North Dakota, Arizona, Georgia, Alaska, Nevada, Indiana, Mississippi, Wisconsin, Wyoming, Ohio, Kansas, and Maine. This legislation provides that only those challenges to health care reform filed in federal court before the date of the Constitutional Protection Act's enactment will be eligible to delay the implementation of The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and its nascent regulation. Click here for a copy of the Constitutional Protection Act, H.R. 1185. # # #
03.22.2011	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform (OGR), and Rep. Joe Walsh (R-IL), a member of the OGR Subcommittee on Health Care, today announced the introduction of the Constitutional Protection Act – legislation that will delay the regulatory and administrative implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act until federal court challenges to its Constitutionality are resolved. "ObamaCare has twice been declared unconstitutional since it was forced through Congress just one year ago, but the Administration is moving full speed ahead on its implementation with little regard for these rulings," Representative Issa stated. "While ObamaCare remains, at best, in Constitutional limbo, it's beyond reckless to allow taxpayer dollars to be spent hiring new government regulators to oversee the creation of its massive and legally dubious bureaucracy. The Constitutional Protection Act will keep American families from losing their hard-earned money on a nonrefundable down payment for legislation that still hangs in the balance of the courts." "The war against ObamaCare is far from over. The battle continues in the courts, and likely will make it all the way to the Supreme Court," said Congressman Walsh. "At a time when our country faces an unsustainable $14 trillion debt, it is fiscally reckless to fund this morally odious and thoroughly unconstitutional piece of legislation while we wait for a final ruling." To date, there are two pending federal challenges to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act's individual health care mandate – one from the state of Virginia and the other from Florida. Other states listed as plaintiffs in these suits include: South Carolina, Nebraska, Texas, Utah, Louisiana, Alabama, Michigan, Colorado, Pennsylvania, Washington, Idaho, South Dakota, North Dakota, Arizona, Georgia, Alaska, Nevada, Indiana, Mississippi, Wisconsin, Wyoming, Ohio, Kansas, and Maine. This legislation provides that only those challenges to health care reform filed in federal court before the date of the Constitutional Protection Act's enactment will be eligible to delay the implementation of The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and its nascent regulation. Click here for a copy of the Constitutional Protection Act, H.R. 1185. ###
03.11.2011	The Committee on Oversight & Government Reform Passes the SOAR Act Washington, D.C. - By a vote of 21-14 the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform voted to approve H.R. 471, the Scholarships for Opportunity and Results (SOAR) Act, one of Speaker John Boehner’s top legislative priorities. The legislation restores the D.C. Opportunity Scholarship Program, which was effectively killed in 2009 due to opposition from teachers unions and other political opponents. Committee chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) and D.C. subcommittee chairman Trey Gowdy (R-SC) are original co-sponsors. The D.C. subcommittee held a hearing on H.R. 471 and the D.C. Opportunity Scholarship on March 1st. “Today’s vote continues the bipartisan momentum to restore educational choice and opportunity for schoolchildren in the District of Columbia,” said Chairman Issa. “Independent studies and reports from parents and students have validated the educational benefits the D.C. Opportunity Scholarship Program has provided to low-income D.C. students. Without the robust and steadfast opposition of teachers’ union special interest groups, I believe there would have been consensus of support for this commonsense proposal. ” Senator Joseph Lieberman (I-CT) has introduced companion legislation (S. 206). Click here for the text of H.R. 471 approved by the Oversight Committee today. For additional background information, please see Speaker Boehner’s summary of the legislation. Click here to read the Heritage Foundation's update on the SOAR Act. # # #
02.16.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) today issued a video release of the Committee Mission Statement: CLICK HERE to Play “The Oversight Committee Mission Statement” ReTweetables: RT @DarrellIssa Oversight Mission: deliver efficient, effective gov’t you deserve. How? VIDEO: http://bit.ly/gCxE7b Oversight Committee Mission Statement We exist to secure two fundamental principles. First, Americans have a right to know that the money Washington takes from them is well spent. And second, Americans deserve an efficient, effective government that works for them. Our duty on the Oversight and Government Reform Committee is to protect these rights. Our solemn responsibility is to hold government accountable to taxpayers, because taxpayers have a right to know what they get from their government. We will work tirelessly, in partnership with citizen-watchdogs, to deliver the facts to the American people and bring genuine reform to the federal bureaucracy. This is the mission of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee. # # #
02.15.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and John Thune (R-SD) introduced the Public Employee Pension Transparency Act, legislation that will enhance transparency for state and local pensions and establish a clear federal prohibition on any future public pension bailouts by the federal government. Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-21), Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (WI-1), and Government Reform and Oversight Chairman Darrell Issa (CA-49), introduced companion legislation in the House last week. “For too long, taxpayers and government employees have been denied information about how badly government worker pension plans are underfunded. My bill would simply shed some light on these enormous liabilities. This information is only for the purpose of public disclosure; it does not tread on the rights of states and local governments to fund and control their own pension plans,” said Senator Burr. “My bill also prevents a federal bailout of state and local government pension plans, empowering local governments to make the reforms needed to ensure problems cannot be dumped on taxpayers down the road.” “State and local government pension liabilities across the country are currently being understated and taxpayers have a right to know the true dimensions of this looming problem,” said Senator Thune. “It is crucial that states provide more transparency and accountability regarding their pension liabilities and take necessary steps to get their balance sheets in order.” “This legislation is about getting accurate information to government employees, retirees, policy makers, and the people who are responsible for paying the bills – namely, the American taxpayer,” said Congressman Nunes. "We need to ensure that state and local governments are accurate and honest in detailing their financial liabilities, including the cost of pension plans for public employees. The Public Employee Pension Transparency Act will make government more accountable to taxpayers by shining a light on the financial soundness and unfunded obligations associated with these plans. I’m honored to join Representatives Nunes and Issa in sponsoring this legislation in the House and am glad Senators Burr and Thune have introduced a companion bill in the Senate,” said Congressman Ryan. “Year after year, the unfunded liabilities being run-up pension liabilities is having a crippling effect on the financial health of our states and municipalities. This burden will ultimately be passed onto the taxpayers and they have a right to know the true nature of the pension liabilities they will be asked to foot the bill for. Quite frankly, if they have nothing to hide, there’s no reason why the states and local governments who control public employee pensions should not embrace this effort to ensure that the taxpayers have a more transparent accounting of the true nature of pension liabilities,” said Congressman Issa. According to leading financial experts, the true magnitude of the debt arising from public employee pension plans is obscured from taxpayers because of rosy assumptions. Public pensions are able to calculate their liabilities using unreasonably high discount rates. In many instances, they also distort fair market value of assets in order to hide debt. The Public Employee Pension Transparency Act will establish new transparency rules, allowing plans to report their existing financial data but also requiring them to report their methods and assumptions. Public employee pension plans will also have to report their liabilities using a uniform accounting standard that provides realistic rates of return and ties assets to more reasonable fair market valuations. The bill also specifically states that the federal government will not assume responsibility for any current or future shortfall in a state or local authority’s pension plan. This is a clear policy statement that will help state and local governments address their very real pension problems. No longer can proponents of the status quo claim that there will be an endless source of contributions from taxpayers to keep plans running no matter how badly managed or underfunded. States will now have the moral standing to bring all stakeholders together to solve their problems. Taxpayers are stakeholders and now they will truly know what they are on the hook for in the context of those discussions. Independent studies demonstrate that public employee pensions had approximately $1.94 trillion set aside to pay retirement benefits promised to government workers as of 2008. However, these pensions have liabilities of $5.17 trillion, which means that they are underfunded by $3.23 trillion. Ten states are projected to run out of pension funds by 2020, and the vast majority of states will have exhausted their pension funds by 2030. # # #
02.14.2011	Calls for Appointment and Confirmation of Inspector General Who Will Be Vigilant and Tenacious WASHINGTON D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), the Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement today regarding the resignation of the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, Neil Barofsky: “I’d like to thank Mr. Barofsky for his extraordinary commitment to public service. The passage of TARP signaled a pivotal moment at a time of great uncertainty and no one has been more dedicated to protecting the American people’s tax-dollars from waste, fraud and abuse than Neil Barofsky. “The fact of the matter is the work that Mr. Barofsky has begun is far from complete. It is imperative that the next IG pick-up immediately where Mr. Barofsky left off. According to the SIGTARP, more than 150 TARP recipient banks have missed their regulator dividend payments. The Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) has fallen far short of its goal to preserve homeownership. More than $150 billion in TARP funds remain outstanding with close to $60 billion still available to be spent. Moving forward, it is imperative that whoever is nominated by the President to serve as the next SIGTARP demonstrates the same type of vigilance, courage and commitment to transparency that Neil Barofsky brought to this job every day.” # # #
02.09.2011	WASHINGTON DC – Today, Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-21) and Senator Richard Burr (NC) announced the House introduction of the Public Employee Pension Transparency Act. Companion legislation will be introduced in the Senate next week. The legislation introduced in the House today was first introduced by Representative Nunes in December. It provides enhanced transparency for state and local pensions and establishes a clear federal prohibition on any future public pension bailouts by the federal government. During a press conference in the Capitol, Congressman Nunes and Senator Burr were joined by the bill’s principle co-authors, including Senator John Thune (SD), Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (WI-1), and Government Reform and Oversight Chairman Darrell Issa (CA-49). The press conference was also attended by a coalition of bill supporters including Grover Norquist representing Americans for Tax Reform, Tom Schatz of the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste, Larry Hart of The American Conservative Union, Pete Sepp on behalf of the National Taxpayers Union, Randy Johnson of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Jim MacDougald on behalf of Free Enterprise Nation, and Steve Woods, representing the National Federation of Independent Businesses. Principal House author, Devin Nunes, offered the following statement: “Government at all levels needs to take its collective head out of the sand. We have enormous challenges associated with government spending and entitlements,” said Rep. Devin Nunes. “Public employee pensions represent trillions of debt carried by the American taxpayer. Unfortunately, this debt is masked by accounting practices that would never be tolerated in the private sector. It’s time to open up the books. Once we enact this bill, retirees, government workers, policy makers, and most importantly the people who are paying the bills, can make up their own minds about the soundness of public pensions.” Principle Senate author Richard Burr: “This bill would implement uniform standards for public-employee pension funds so that citizens can accurately judge the performance of state and local authorities in managing the public trust. This information is only for the purpose of disclosure, the rights of states and local governments to fund and control their own plans is maintained,” said Sen. Burr. “The bill also prevents a federal bailout of state and local government pension plans which empowers local authorities to make the reforms needed to ensure problems cannot be dumped upon taxpayers.” Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan: "We need to ensure that state and local governments are accurate and honest in detailing their financial liabilities, including the cost of pension plans for public employees. The Public Employee Pension Transparency Act will make government more accountable to taxpayers by shining a light on the financial soundness and unfunded obligations associated with these plans, and I’m honored to join Representatives Nunes and Issa in sponsoring this common-sense legislation." Senator John Thune: "Taxpayers have a right to know the full extent of their government's underfunded liabilities," said Sen. Thune. "State and local governments should use the same accounting standards that are widely accepted in the private sector to determine the true costs associated with their pensions. As the federal government faces a looming fiscal crisis, which will require significant spending cuts and budget reforms, adding underfunded state and local pension obligations to the balance sheet is simply not an option." Government Reform and Oversight Chairman Darrell Issa: “The American people have a right to know the truth about the unfunded liabilities being run-up by state and local pensions. Quite frankly, if they have nothing to hide, there’s no reason why the states and local governments who control public employee pensions should not embrace this effort to ensure that the taxpayers have a more transparent accounting of the true nature of pension liabilities.” Most state and local governments offer their employees defined benefit pension plans. These plans currently promise retirement pensions to about 20 million active employees, while another seven million retirees and their dependants are receiving benefits today. According to leading financial experts, the enormous debt reported by public employee pensions fails to convey the true size of the debt confronting taxpayers because public pensions are able to calculate their liabilities using unreasonably high discount rates. In many instances, they also distort fair market value of assets in order to hide debt. The Public Employee Pension Transparency Act will establish new transparency rules, allowing plans to report their existing financial data but also requiring them to report their methods and assumptions. Public employee pension plans will also have to report their liabilities using a uniform accounting standard that will provide realistic rates of return and tie assets to more reasonable fair market valuations. State and local officials should welcome increased public pension transparency as a tool to increase public finance soundness. However, plan sponsors may decide against reporting this information. To incentivize transparency, the bill links the creation of new federally subsidized debt at the state and local level with an honest accounting of current public pension liabilities. Failure to report will result in the suspension of all federal tax-exempt bonding authority for the jurisdiction(s) whose employees are covered by the non-compliant plan. Independent studies demonstrate that public employee pensions had approximately $1.94 trillion set aside to pay retirement benefits promised to government workers as of 2008. However, these pensions have liabilities of $5.17 trillion, which means that they are underfunded by $3.23 trillion. Ten states including Oklahoma, Louisiana, Illinois, New Jersey, Connecticut, Arkansas, West Virginia, Kentucky, Hawaii, and Indiana are projected to run out of pension funds by 2020, the vast majority of states will have exhausted their pension funds by 2030. # # #
02.07.2011	WASHINGTON D.C. – In his State of the Union Address, President Obama highlighted the importance of making America a better place to do business saying, “to help our companies compete, we also have to knock down barriers that stand in the way of their success. To reduce barriers to growth and investment, I’ve ordered a review of government regulations. When we find rules that put an unnecessary burden on businesses, we will fix them…” At the end of last year, Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), the Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, launched an effort to bring the voice of job creators nationwide directly to Washington by asking for their input through correspondences as well as through the launch of www.AmericanJobCreators.com. Today, Chairman Issa made all of the submissions he has received public, so that both policymakers and the American people can evaluate for themselves the merits of the input job creators have made. CLICK HERE for submissions Chairman Issa has received “The President has recognized the value in examining the regulatory barriers impeding private sector job creation. This project should complement what President Obama has already called on his Administration to do and in concert, lead to a robust and expansive discussion about what the best way forward is to stimulate our economy,” Chairman Issa said. “Policymakers often hear anecdotal examples from job creators about how government regulations impede the type of permanent, private-sector job creation necessary to successfully lower unemployment. This project is an opportunity for private industry to put forward detailed and specific examples so that both the American people and policymakers can determine for themselves what actions can be taken to create jobs.” # # #
02.03.2011	VISTA, CA – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista), the Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, will be a speaker at the Vista Chamber of Commerce’s “Meet the Leaders” dinner being held tomorrow night. Issa will discuss the launch of www.AmericanJobCreators.com, which is part of his broader effort to bring the personal stories of constituents, Californians and nationwide job creators to Washington as part of the ongoing debate about the regulatory barriers to job creation. Issa will be joined by Assemblyman Martin Garrick (R-74) and Vista Mayor Judy Ritter. WHO: Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista) WHAT: Vista Chamber of Commerce's "Meet the Leaders' Dinner WHERE: Shadowridge Country Club1980 Gateway DriveVista, CA WHEN: Friday, February 4th6:30 p.m. (PST) # # #
01.26.2011	WASHINGTON D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), the Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following response to President Obama's State of the Union Address: "From a crippling deficit that threatens the future solvency of our country to the prolonged absence of job creation, there is widespread recognition across the ideological spectrum acknowledging the many challenges facing our nation today. What we have learned in the past two years is that growing the size and scope of the federal government is not the answer. We cannot spend our way out of an economic downturn and into fiscal solvency. We cannot erect barriers on job creators and then expect robust job creation. We cannot sidestep the tough decisions about the future of entitlements and expect to make legitimate progress on the deficit. We cannot ignore the failures of the past for the sake of expediency or political gain. If we are to move our nation forward, beyond the challenges of the present, we must first demonstrate a commitment and a willingness to live within our means, reduce the footprint of government in our lives and reform a bureaucracy that has grown to comfortable with being careless with the American people's money." Below are some responses from Chairman Issa to specific passages of the President's address: President Obama on Regulatory Impediments to Job Creation: "All these investments – in innovation, education, and infrastructure – will make America a better place to do business and create jobs. But to help our companies compete, we also have to knock down barriers that stand in the way of their success. To reduce barriers to growth and investment, I've ordered a review of government regulations. When we find rules that put an unnecessary burden on businesses, we will fix them..." Chairman Issa: "As President Obama has signaled the importance of examining the regulatory impediments to job creation, I am hopeful that through the launch of www.AmericanJobCreators.com, we can bring the voice of job creators nationwide directly to Washington and into this debate. We agree that American job creators deserve the opportunity to succeed and grow here in the United States. The first step is listening to the personal stories of job creators, innovators and entrepreneurs about how government impacts job creation." President Obama on Government Reform: "Let me take this one step further. We shouldn't just give our people a government that's more affordable. We should give them a government that's more competent and efficient. We cannot win the future with a government of the past. We live and do business in the information age, but the last major reorganization of the government happened in the age of black and white TV. There are twelve different agencies that deal with exports...the coming months, my administration will develop a proposal to merge, consolidate, and reorganize the federal government in a way that best serves the goal of a more competitive America. I will submit that proposal to Congress for a vote – and we will push to get it passed. Chairman Issa: "Identifying, reforming and eliminating the redundancy and waste in government is an area in which there should and will be common-ground. Americans deserve an efficient and effective government that works better for them than it does right now. Our work here at the Oversight and Government Reform Committee centers on the principle of holding government accountable to taxpayers, because taxpayers have a right to know what they get from government." # # #
01.24.2011	WASHINGTON D.C. – The Chairman and immediate-past Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Reps. Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Edolphus "Ed" Towns (D-NY), announced today that in the spirit of bipartisanship, they will sit together at Tuesday night's State of the Union Address. "We cannot advance the solutions needed to address the challenges facing our nation unless we are first willing to move beyond the partisan entrenchments that too often stand in the way of progress," Issa and Towns said in a joint statement. "The work we do at the Oversight and Government Reform Committee is instrumental in fulfilling our obligation to the American people to ensure that we are better stewards of their tax-dollars and that government is as transparent and accountable as possible." # # #
01.20.2011	Issa Launches AmericanJobCreators.com WASHINGTON D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), the Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today released a new video, launching www.AmericanJobCreators.com, to listen to the personal stories of constituents, Californians and nationwide job creators about how government impacts job creation directly to Washington. "Americans have a right to an efficient, effective government that works for them. American job creators deserve the opportunity to succeed and grow here in the United States. Government should deliver predictability, letting innovators deliver results," Issa says in the video. "Our job on the Oversight and Government Reform Committee is to help both taxpayers and businesses secure these rights. But to get our job right we need help from you, our country's proven job creation experts. Would you be willing to tell us about your experience? We're listening." By visiting AmericanJobCreators.com, innovators throughout the nation can describe how government impacts businesses, detailing where they think Washington helps or hurts. "For nearly 30 years, I've run a small business, signed the fronts of paychecks and created jobs and opportunity for my employees in Southern California.," Issa concluded the video by saying. "I bring that experience to every vote, every hearing, every day on behalf of California's 49th Congressional District. I'm listening to the many job creators and citizens who have already spoken out. I'm looking forward to hearing from you, too." # # #
01.20.2011	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (CA-49), today released the following statement after House Republicans successfully voted to repeal President Barack Obama's health care reform bill: "Last summer, I held a townhall meeting where hundreds and hundreds of constituents resoundingly sent the message from San Diego and Riverside County back to Washington that they did not want ObamaCare. They were concerned about this misguided reform's impact on the ability to create permanent jobs. They were concerned about the intrusive nature of a federal government that was growing in both size and scope. They understood how adding hundreds of new programs and Washington bureaucrats to the health care system could adversely impact their ability to access quality health care, leaving behind a system susceptible to waste, fraud and abuse. Today, House Republicans have taken the first step in delivering to the American people on the promises and pledges we have made in our effort to move America forward." # # #
01.18.2011	WASHINGTON D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), the Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, praised President Obama's call for a "government-wide review of the rules already on the books to remove outdated regulations that stifle job creation and make our economy less competitive." "I applaud President Obama for joining what must be an effort that stretches beyond ideological entrenchments to identify the regulatory impediments that have prevented real and sustained job growth in the private sector," Chairman Issa said. "The anti-business policies of the past have hurt job creators, small and large. It's in the interest of every American that we create a modern, regulatory environment that fosters economic growth and makes U.S. companies globally competitive. I look forward to providing the President with insights gained from our current effort to hear directly from job creators about what they perceive as barriers standing in the way of their ability to create jobs." Chairman Issa is currently seeking the input of job creators about the barriers preventing job creation. # # #
01.13.2011	WASHINGTON. D.C. – U.S. Representative Darrell Issa (R-CA) today released the following statement on the situation in Lebanon: "It's deeply concerning that forces who oppose a UN-led effort to expose the truth about the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri would risk the welfare of the entire country by forcing the collapse of the Lebanese government. As I have said before, Hezbollah is a cancer on Lebanon that must be addressed. "The people of Lebanon must know that the United States stands behind their nation's sovereign right to exercise judicial proceedings, assisted by the international community, without intimidation. It is my sincere hope that the Lebanese people will rise above this great crisis and continue to move in the direction of democracy, peace and prosperity." # # #
01.08.2011	WASHINGTON. D.C. – U.S. Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista), Chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, released the following statement on the Arizona shooting involving U.S. Rep. Gabrielle Giffords: "This savage act of violence was an attack against decency itself. My thoughts and prayers are with my colleague Rep. Giffords, the other victims of this shooting, and their families." # # #
12.17.2010	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) today applauded House passage H.R. 628, legislation creating a pilot program to enhance the expertise of district court judges hearing patent cases. The legislation has already been approved by the Senate and today's 371-1 vote sends the legislation to the desk of President Barack Obama. The legislation will establish a pilot project in at least six district courts where judges will have the choice of opting-in to the new program to hear patent cases. "Prior to coming to Congress, I was part of a number of patent suits. I was often struck by the fact that many district court judges either knew little of the applicable law, or did not understand the technology involved," said Issa. "Patent litigation often costs litigants over $10 million and can inject crippling uncertainty into a business. This legislation launches a 10 year program to support efforts of courts to help businesses and individual inventors who patent ideas." “As the home to the most creative, inventive and entrepreneurial people in the world, it is important that we support an economic environment that encourages innovation,” Schiff said. “Obtaining and protecting intellectual property rights is increasingly becoming a strategic necessity for individuals and businesses throughout the nation. This important legislation will raise the level of expertise in patent litigation, improve the reliability of patents, and allow businesses to spend more time inventing and less time litigating, which could reduce the cost to consumers on everything from promising new medicines to the latest cell phones.” The core intent of the pilot program is to steer patent cases to judges that have the desire and aptitude to hear patent cases, while preserving the principle of random assignment to help avoid forum shopping. Under the legislation, if a judge opts-in to the new program and a patent case is randomly assigned to that judge, that judge keeps the case. When a case is randomly assigned to a judge in a district with the pilot program who has not opted to hear patent cases, that judge has the choice of keeping the case or referring the case to the group of judges who have opted-in to the program. The pilot project will last no longer than 10 years, and studies will occur to determine the pilot project’s success. The Patent Pilot bill was originally introduced by Rep. Issa and Rep. Schiff in 2006. It was passed by the House of Representatives in both the 109th and 110th Congresses. # # #
12.17.2010	WASHINGTON. D.C.– Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), the incoming Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, tonight issued the following statement following the vote to freeze tax rates at the current level for two years, preventing an income tax increase that would have affected all Americans: “It is embarrassing that Congressional Democrats in the Majority have relegated a decision to avoid a massive and immediate tax increase on all Americans, until the very last possible second thereby putting us in an impossible position to have to decide between the bad and the worse. The reality is there couldn’t be a worse time for the American people to have to absorb another tax increase, so I voted in favor of the only proposal put forward by the Congressional Majority for consideration and sided with the best interests of the American people to protect them from a devastating tax hike. “The reality is the only way we can have the kind of long-term investment needed to sustain an expansive economic recovery is to provide certainty in our tax system. Institutionalizing a temporary tax code that is up for debate every two years will severely limit the prospects for a long-term recovery. It is my hope that providing the framework for tax certainty will be among the first priorities of the new Congress. # # #
12.15.2010	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement today regarding a U.S. Border Patrol Agent who was shot and killed last night in Campo while investigating suspected drug smuggles or illegal immigrants near the Mexican border: “Every day, our nation’s border patrol agents stand on the frontlines of the effort to keep our country and communities safe. They knowingly put their well-being in harm’s way and in some cases make the ultimate sacrifice. What happened last night was a tragedy and a painful acknowledgement that at any time, our border patrol agents may be put into an extraordinary circumstance. The thoughts and prayers of our entire region are with the family and friends of this fallen agent.” The name of the agent was withheld pending family notification. ###
12.14.2010	Institutionalizes Uncertainty in the Tax System WASHINGTON, DC – As the moves forward with consideration of legislation to extend lower tax rates and unemployment benefits for 13 months, Oversight and Government Reform Committee Ranking Member Darrell Issa today issued the following statement: “For nearly two years, President Obama and House Speaker Pelosi have failed to pursue an effective strategy to improve the economy and create jobs. As a result of this failure, Congress now finds itself in a divisive, eleventh-hour debate over a ‘compromise’ proposal to temporarily extend current tax rates and unemployment benefits. “The bill passed by the Senate is an incomplete effort that fails to create a permanent tax structure giving businesses the kind of long term predictability needed to support investment, economic growth and job creation. While it does accomplish the important short-term goal of avoiding massive and immediate tax increases that would harm our economy and kill more jobs, the policy of institutionalizing uncertainty in our tax system could limit the pace of an economic recovery. “While my vote will ultimately depend on the final bill brought to the floor of the House, the flawed last minute consideration of this proposal underscores the need for Congress to act decisively in the new year to support job creation, curb government spending and enact permanent tax reform.” # # #
12.03.2010	WASHINGTON D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released the following statement reacting to the latest jobs numbers reporting that unemployment has increased to 9.8 percent from 9.6 percent, the 16th consecutive month that unemployment has remained above 9.5 percent, and that more than 15 million Americans remain out of work: “The economic situation is uncertain at best and steadily evaporating at worst, yet through all of this, there seems to be an alarming lack of urgency by the Democrats as they have refused to take meaningful and definitive action to address the uncertainty created by the expiring tax cuts. You would think that after the November elections, Democrats would have realized how out-of-touch and misdirected their policies have been, but given the political gamesmanship they engaged in with yesterday’s vote that would leave small businesses susceptible to a devastating tax increase, they clearly have not gotten the message. The only question remains how many more Americans will need to lose their jobs until they do?” # # #
12.02.2010	WASHINGTON D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement regarding Congressional Democrats decision to ignore the will of the American people and advance a policy that would raise taxes on small businesses and the American people: "They just don't get it. Clearly, Congressional Democrats learned nothing from the lessons of November 2nd. The American people had a clear choice between those that want to cut taxes for all Americans and those that want to raise them and they chose decisively. Instead of living up to the mandate set by the American people, Congressional Democrats have defied the will of the American people choosing instead to play politics with this issue and advance a job-killing, tax-raising agenda that has been rejected by the American people." # # #
12.02.2010	Reps Nunes, Ryan and Issa seek improved accounting of public pension debt Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Devin Nunes (R-CA), Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI), and Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) introduced the Public Employee Pension Transparency Act. The bill, which provides enhanced transparency for state and local pensions, also establishes a clear federal prohibition on any future public pension bailouts by the federal government. "As we speak, lucrative pension promises are being made to public employees that taxpayers simply cannot afford. The plans themselves admit to more than a $1 trillion in unfunded liabilities," said Rep. Devin Nunes. "Unfortunately, the true level of unfunded liabilities associated with these plans – perhaps more than $3 trillion – is being hidden thanks to unrealistic accounting standards." Congressman Paul Ryan, incoming Budget Committee Chairman, offered the following statement regarding the Public Employee Pension Transparency Act: "We need to ensure that state and local governments are accurate and honest in detailing their financial liabilities, including the cost of pension plans for public employees. The Public Employee Pension Transparency Act will make government more accountable to taxpayers by shining a light on the financial soundness and unfunded obligations associated with these plans and I'm honored to join Representatives Nunes and Issa in sponsoring this common sense legislation." Congressman Darrell Issa, Incoming Chairman of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee said: "The American people have a right to know the truth about the unfunded liabilities being run-up by state and local pensions. Quite frankly, if they have nothing to hide, there's no reason why the states and local governments who control public employee pensions should not embrace this effort to ensure that the taxpayers have a more transparent accounting of the true nature of pension liabilities." Most state and local governments offer their employees defined benefit pension plans. These plans currently promise retirement pensions to about 20 million active employees, while another seven million retirees and their dependants are receiving benefits today. According to leading financial experts, the enormous debt reported by public employee pensions fails to convey the true size of the debt confronting taxpayers because public pensions are able to calculate their liabilities using unreasonably high discount rates. In many instances, they also distort fair market value of assets in order to hide debt. The Public Employee Pension Transparency Act will establish new transparency rules, allowing plans to report their existing financial data but also requiring them to report their methods and assumptions. Public employee pension plans will also have to report their liabilities using a uniform accounting standard that provide realistic rates of return and tie assets to more reasonable fair market valuations. State and local officials should welcome increased public pension transparency as a tool to increase public finance soundness. However, plan sponsors may decide against reporting this information. To incentivize transparency, the bill links the creation of new federally subsidized debt at the state and local level with an honest accounting of current public pension liabilities. Failure to report will result in the suspension of all federal tax-exempt bonding authority for the jurisdiction(s) whose employees are covered by the non-compliant plan. "With few real disclosure requirements, public employee pension plans are at even further risk of not only jeopardizing retirement packages for active and retired employees, but also putting taxpayers in grave danger. This bill will provide a much-needed dose of financial transparency," said Jordan Forbes, of the National Taxpayers Union. Independent studies demonstrate that public employee pensions had approximately $1.94 trillion set aside to pay retirement benefits promised to government workers as of 2008. However, these pensions have liabilities of $5.17 trillion, which means that they are underfunded by $3.23 trillion. Ten states including Oklahoma, Louisiana, Illinois, New Jersey, Connecticut, Arkansas, West Virginia, Kentucky, Hawaii, and Indiana are projected to run out of pension funds by 2020, the vast majority of states will have exhausted their pension funds by 2030. "State and local governments' empty coffers should not be ignored, nor should they become dependent on federal bailouts to ensure the fiscal soundness of their pension plans. Increasing pension fund transparency will make lawmakers more accountable to taxpayers and compel them to deal with the reality of their fiscal crisis," said Thomas Schatz, President of Citizens Against Government Waste. "By requiring accurate accounting, disclosure online and certifying the end of federal bailouts, the Public Employee Pension Transparency Act would address the underlying deficiencies that have allowed states and municipalities to be fiscally reckless with their pension plans," said Grover Norquist, President of Americans for Tax Reform. Support for the Public Employee Pension Transparency Act includes the Americans for Tax Reform, Americans for Prosperity, American Conservative Union, Citizens Against Government Waste, National Taxpayers Union, Americans for Limited Government, and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. # # #
11.29.2010	WASHINGTON D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released the following statement reacting to President Barack Obama’s enactment of a two year freeze in civilian pay for federal employees: “At a time when our nation’s seniors have been denied a cost-of-living-increase and private sector hiring is stagnant, it is both necessary and quite frankly, long over-due to institute a pay-freeze for the federal workforce. As Republicans outlined in our Pledge to America there are a number of actions the President and Congress should immediately act on to demonstrate a real commitment to reigning in the excessive growth and spending of the federal government. “To put this in perspective, the Obama Administration says this two-year pay freeze will save $2 billion, however, just last week, OMB released a report revealing that the federal government’s improper payments for FY-2010 totaled $125 billion, $15 billion higher than the previous year. It is unthinkable that we have come to accept having a bureaucracy that has institutionalized waste, fraud and abuse to the point where $125 billion in improper payments were made last year. The first place we should look to make progress on higher costs, increased debt and a stagnant economy is look inward at how taxpayer dollars are being spent and doing more to ensure that tens of billions of dollars are no longer erroneously paid out.” In their Pledge to America, Republicans proposed a number of actions to put government on a path to a balanced budget and to reign in the deficit: Cut government spending to pre-stimulus, pre-bailout levels Establish a hard cap on new discretionary spending Reduce Congress’ budget Hold weekly votes on spending cuts End TARP once and for all Address government control of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac Impose a net federal hiring freeze of non-security employees Root out government waste and sunset outdated and duplicative programs Reform the budget process # # #
11.18.2010	Calls for Oversight Agenda Committed to Rooting Out Waste, Fraud and Abuse WASHINGTON D.C. – Speaking in Philadelphia at the “Focus on Recovery” 2010 Biennial National Procurement and Grant Fraud Conference, Rep. Darrell Issa, the Ranking Member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, highlighted the importance of working with the Inspector General (IG) community to root out waste, fraud and abuse. “We are as close to a team as we’ve ever been starting in January…we have to be teaming to do the same thing and that’s going to be a challenge…to find ways to make it possible for literally thousands of people whose job it is to root out waste, fraud and abuse in government, to do their job and do it without fear of interference either from Congress or unreasonably the Executive Branch you report to,” Issa said. “There are opportunities for income without tax increases, there are opportunities to make people pay their fair share and there are certainly opportunities to ensure that only those entitled to payments get them.” Issa stressed the need to work with the IG community to root out waste and duplicity within the federal bureaucracy. “But if we’re going to have my Committee, which includes the term ‘reform’ in it, be able to do its job, we’re going to need sources of waste that go beyond corruption,” said Issa. “Sources of waste that go into the question of why do we have, even within one cabinet position, 7 or 8 different groups doing the same thing…to find opportunities where between the cracks, between different agencies, the same money is being spent when it only needs to be spent once. Issa, who has called for new reforms such as granting all Inspectors General with subpoena authority (currently only one of the 74 IG’s have it) said, “I’ve got to ensure that if you do your job, you will never be punished for it…if you push the limit of what you think you can investigate, you will be cooperated with, you will get the information you want and if you release it in the appropriate way, you will keep your job.” The conference was co-sponsored by the Recovery Board, the Office of Inspector General, U.S. Postal Service, and the National Procurement Fraud Task Force, which was recently rolled into the President’s Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force. More than 500 investigators, auditors, analysts and prosecutors attended the conference. Click here to watch Rep. Issa's remarks
11.02.2010	SAN DIEGO, CA – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released the following statement on the results of tonight’s elections: “Tonight was a referendum on the Obama agenda and the American people rejected it. The American people have sent a clear and direct message to Washington that they want less spending, limited government and more accountability. The mandate is clear: advance an agenda that will create real jobs - not government jobs - but real jobs to get our economy moving again. Reduce the footprint of government in our lives, get government to live within its means and make government more transparent and accountable.” ###
10.19.2010	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released the following statement today expanding on comments he made to the Wall Street Journal regarding the importance of advancing a new governing agenda after the November elections. “For months, we have seen Democrats like Nancy Pelosi and Al Franken try and spread the message that if Republicans win back the Majority, they will embark on an obstructionist witch hunt that will shut-down the government. The reality is this election is a referendum on the Obama-Pelosi-Reid regime. If the President recognizes that the American people are demanding from their elected officials a governing philosophy of limited government, less spending and more accountability – then we will welcome him to that discussion. Let me be clear, I will not compromise on the fundamental conservative principles of fiscal restraint, government accountability and transparency. Ultimately, how acrimonious things get after the November elections is up to the President and his willingness to recognize that his agenda is out-of-touch and has been thoroughly rejected by the American people.” # # #
10.18.2010	{loadposition press}
09.27.2010	WASHINGTON D.C. - Following the statement today by House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD) that the Congress is not likely to vote on extending tax cuts that would benefit all Americans until after the November 2nd midterm elections, Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform said today that if Democrats are willing to leave Washington without acting on tax relief for the American people, they might as well resign: “This is embarrassing. For the second time in three months, Congressional Democrats want to leave Washington so they can focus on trying to keep their jobs, while abdicating their responsibilities as members of Congress. How is it that we have time to vote on post offices and listen to testimony from a comedian, but can't seem to manage the time to have a straight up-or-down vote on a tax cut that will benefit all Americans? “Every Democrat in Congress should be appealing to Speaker Pelosi to allow this vote before adjourning. There isn’t a single American who would be able to keep their job if they didn’t it, Congress should be no different. Does anyone really believe that politicians will be more willing to act in the best interests of the American people after they’ve been voted out of office, rather than before? If Congressional Democrats refuse to put the interests of the American people ahead of politics, they should just resign, because this whole thing is disgraceful.” # # #
09.23.2010	Smaller Government, Lower Taxes, More Transparency and Accountability WASHINGTON D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa, the Ranking Member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, called on the President and Congressional Democrats to embrace the principles and policies presented today by House Republicans in their “Pledge to America” which outlined concrete solutions to immediately tackle the issues facing our country, including job creation, spending restraint, national security, health care, and government reform. “The political calendar should not be used as an excuse for inaction or to prevent the advancement of public policy ideas that can get our country moving forward in the right direction,” said Issa. “The American people should not have to wait until after the November elections for Congress to take decisive and definitive action to create jobs, lower taxes, reduce government waste and make the federal government more transparent and accountable.” The preamble to “A Pledge to America” reaffirms Republicans’ commitment to principles of smaller, more accountable government; economic freedom; lower taxes; fiscal responsibility; protecting life, American values, and the Constitution; and providing for a strong national defense. This new governing agenda is comprised of five specific policy plans that could be implemented right now if President Obama and Democratic Leaders would allow it: Creating Jobs. “A Pledge to America” reflects Americans’ demand for immediate action on policies that will end uncertainty for small businesses and help our economy get back to creating jobs. This new governing agenda contains a plan to create jobs, end economic uncertainty, and make America competitive – including stopping all tax hikes, reining in red tape, and repealing ObamaCare’s ‘1099 mandate. Cutting Spending. “A Pledge to America” embodies Americans’ rejection of the now-thoroughly discredited notion that we can simply tax, spend, and borrow our way to prosperity. This new governing agenda contains a plan to cut spending and reduce the size of government – including cutting government spending to pre-‘stimulus’, pre-bailout levels, imposing a hard cap on future discretionary spending, and ending TARP once and for all. Reforming Congress. “A Pledge to America” acknowledges that we cannot get our arms around the issues of the day when we have a government that refuses to listen to the people and ignores their priorities. This new governing agenda contains a plan to reform Congress and restore trust – including implementing ‘read the bill’ reform, allowing for more open and fair debate, and requiring that every bill contain a citation of Constitutional authority. Repealing and Replacing The Job-Killing Health Care Law. “A Pledge to America” recognizes that the American people continue to squarely oppose the government takeover of health care, with its higher costs, higher taxes, job-killing mandates, and Medicare cuts to pay for a massive new entitlement. This new governing agenda contains a plan to repeal and replace the job-killing health care law with common-sense reforms focused on lowering costs and protecting American jobs. A Strong National Defense. “A Pledge to America” reinforces Congress’s responsibility to help provide for a strong national defense and fashion a coherent strategy to confront and defeat the terrorist threat. This new governing agenda contains a plan to keep our nation secure at home and abroad – including passing clean troop funding bills, keeping terrorists off American soil, and fully funding missile defense. # # #
09.23.2010	WASHINGTON D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), the Ranking Member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, today applauded House passage of S. 3717, which repealed section 929I of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that allowed the SEC to not "disclose records or information" that are typically subjects of Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests. S. 3717, which also passed the Senate unanimously includes similar language to legislation introduced by Issa in July, H.R. 5924, the “SEC Freedom of Information Restoration Act.” “Democrats and Republicans agree that we cannot allow the SEC, a regulatory body that failed to catch Allen Stanford's fraud and Bernie Madoff's ponzi scheme, to operate in secrecy,” Issa said. “The SEC exists in no small way in order to create transparency and honesty of information from public companies so that we can have public confidence and trust in them. By repealing this section, we have reaffirmed our commitment to ensure that the SEC will be held to the highest possible standard of accountability and transparency.” A report released yesterday by Issa outlining oversight priorities for the Congress underscored the need to continue vigorous oversight of the SEC: “Failures at the SEC – Despite a budget that nearly tripled between 2000 and 2010, the SEC has not lived up to its watchdog responsibilities. The scandals involving Bernie Madoff, Enron, WorldCom, and others during the past decade were not detected by SEC investigators but by journalists, whistleblowers and others. In many cases the SEC had the information it needed to frauds years earlier but failed to put the pieces together until after the wrongdoing had already been uncovered. Oversight Committee Republicans launched an investigation of problems at the SEC and released a report finding that the SEC suffers from an acute 'silo problem,' which has been admitted by former Chairmen, current and former commissioners, senior staff, and the SEC Inspector General. The Commission is divided into five operating divisions and sixteen independent offices – all but three reporting directly to the Chairman. The Commission’s fragmentation into operational silos has devastating effects on collaboration, encourages uninformed rulemaking, prevents effective IT investment, and generates bureaucratic rivalries. The Dodd-Frank financial services legislation did not address these problems and there is a clear need for oversight that should present an opportunity for needed reforms and restructuring.” # # #
09.22.2010	"Quite as important as legislation is vigilant oversight of administration." –Woodrow Wilson in 1885 WASHINGTON D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa, the Ranking Member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, released a report today entitled: "A Constitutional Obligation: Congressional Oversight of the Executive Branch" detailing how "the vast expansion of the power and reach of the Executive Branch of government under both Republican and Democratic administrations has only increased the need for vigorous, unflinching Congressional oversight." "The unparalleled encroachment of the federal government in the private sector and the lives of individual Americans that began during the Bush Administration and continues in the Obama Administration (see, for example, the Troubled Assets Protection Program, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, the rapid growth of the federal workforce, and the health care and financial overhauls) has led to concerns of an oncoming tsunami of opacity, waste, fraud, and abuse," the report says. "This trend must be met by vigorous Congressional oversight of the massive federal bureaucracy." Congressional Research Service, 2010: “A fundamental objective of congressional oversight is to hold executive officials accountable for the implementation of delegated authority. This objective is especially important given the huge expansion of executive influence in the modern era …. Clearly, given the role and scope of the federal establishment, the importance of Congress’s review function looms large in checking and monitoring the delegated authority that it grants to federal departments and agencies.�? "Congress' chief watchdog committee requested 61 percent less information in the first year of the 111th Congress than it did in the 110th," the report reveals. "The Committee held 21 percent fewer hearings, and the subjects of those hearings were too often far outside the most pressing issues facing the American people...Only four years ago Democrats lamented a lack of congressional oversight under one-party rule. But today, at a time of unprecedented expenditures and growth in the federal workforce and its presence in Americans' lives, with all the potential for fraud, waste, and abuse such growth carries with it, the Democratic-controlled Congress has consciously abdicated its Constitutional responsibility to provide oversight of the Executive Branch." “We start with several basic premises on which there is general agreement. The power of Congress to conduct investigations is inherent in the legislative process. That power is broad. It encompasses inquiries concerning the administration of existing laws as well as proposed or possibly needed statutes. It includes surveys of defects in the social, economic, or political system for the purpose of enabling Congress to remedy them. It comprehends probes into departments of the federal government to expose corruption, inefficiency, or waste.�? – Chief Justice Warren for the Majority, Watkins v. United States What Congressional Democrats Said About Oversight of the Executive Branch In the year leading up to the 2006 midterm elections, Ranking Member Waxman intensified his attacks on the Republican Majority for what he considered their negligent oversight of the Bush Administration. In January 2006, his staff issued a report stating the following: [T]he Republican-controlled Congress has failed to meet this constitutional oversight responsibility. On issue after issue, the Congress has failed to conduct meaningful investigations of significant allegations of wrongdoing by the Bush Administration.... [A] large "accountability gap" has emerged. Despite repeated requests by Democratic members and news reports raising allegations of serious misconduct, the Congress has failed to convene hearings, issue subpoenas, and take the other steps necessary to fulfill its constitutional oversight role. When the Democrats regained Congress in the 2006 elections, Rep. Waxman became Chairman, and the Congressional obligation to conduct vigorous oversight of the Executive Branch became a central priority of Congressional Democrats. In February 2007, Chairman Waxman told The New York Times that "There has been no cop on the beat. And when there is no cop on the beat, criminals are more willing to engage in crimes." Without constant Congressional oversight, Chairman Waxman said, "the bad actors feel they can get away with anything." Six months after becoming Speaker of the House, Rep. Nancy Pelosi explained to a group of progressive bloggers how the new Democratic Majority was reinstating Congressional oversight: They [the Bush Administration] had been going for six and a half years with no oversight, just absolutely zero accountability. And when people talk about this Congress, they have to recognize that there's a big distinction between this Congress and previous Congresses in terms of shedding the light of oversight and accountability on this administration. Then-House Democratic Caucus Chairman and current White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel also sounded the need for an uncompromising Oversight Committee, stating that "We want to be the party that is ferreting out waste and fraud, and Henry's [Waxman's] committee is the point of the spear for us." As of August 2010, the Republican members of the Oversight Committee had sent 46 letters to the Democratic Chairman of the Committee or its Subcommittee Chairs requesting hearings, additional witnesses at hearings, or subpoenas of important documents related to significant investigations. Formal responses were received for only six of those requests. Hearings requested by the Republican Minority but ignored by the Democratic Majority include: Food Safety – In 2009, following a salmonella outbreak in a Georgia peanut plant that led to at least 8 deaths and more than 500 illnesses, Ranking Member Issa sent a letter to Chairman Towns requesting a hearing on the federal food safety bureaucracy, citing a GAO report that identified 15 different federal agencies responsible for administering 30 food safety-related laws and noting that "our Committee is uniquely positioned to look at the coordination and cooperation amongst departments and agencies." No response to the request was received, and nothing was done to hold the federal agencies accountable. Homeland Security – During the 107th, 108th, and 109th Congresses, the Committee's Republican Majority conducted 35 hearings on homeland security matters. Among other things, these addressed terrorism and cross-agency information sharing, as well as the formation and oversight of the Department of Homeland Security. Oversight of Homeland Security has been badly neglected over the past two years. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac – Despite the role Fannie and Freddie played in the financial crisis and the huge financial stakes for the American taxpayer involved in continuing to prop up these organizations...Oversight Committee Republicans requested a public hearing on Fannie and Freddie but received no response from the Majority. Healthcare Reform Oversight – Attorney General Eric Holder has said himself that every year American taxpayers lose "tens of billions of dollars in Medicare and Medicaid funds to fraud." With government's increased role in healthcare under the Obama reform, this number is all but certain to increase...Under Democrats, the Oversight Committee refused to investigate waste, fraud, and abuse in government run healthcare and also decided to waive its jurisdiction when the new healthcare reform law came through Congress and refused to hold even a single hearing or mark-up on the legislation. Wasteful Stimulus Spending – The Republican Minority has provided the Democratic Majority with evidence of government agencies wasting stimulus funds on projects of dubious merit that appear to contradict the Administration's stated goals for stimulus-worthy projects and that therefore are ripe for oversight...The Minority has not yet received a reply from the Chairman. Minerals Management Service – The last time Republicans had subpoena power was in 2006, where as a subcommittee Chairman, Ranking Member Issa used it to compel the testimony of oil executives and expose cozy relationship with the Minerals Management Service (MMS)...it wasn't until after the April 20, 2010, Deepwater Horizon oil spill that Oversight Committee Democrats agreed to hold a hearing about the troubles of MMS. School Choice – The D.C. Opportunity Scholarship Program (OSP) was launched by Congress in 2004, with bipartisan support, to give economically disadvantaged District of Columbia children the chance for a quality education outside of public school classrooms plagued by problems...The Republican Minority has requested a full Committee hearing to examine this program, but did not receive a response. Following are examples, in addition to those discussed in the previous section on Minority-requested hearings, of issues in need of Congressional oversight that were the focus of vigorous attention by the Republican Minority in the 111th Congress but were largely or entirely neglected by the Democratic Majority: Federal Emergency Management – The inadequate response by the federal government to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill is evidence that 5 years after Hurricane Katrina, government agencies are no more effective now than they were then in dealing with large scale disasters...The Oversight Committee is uniquely able to address cross-agency and cross-government activities, yet has done little to oversee efforts to implement lessons learned from previous disasters or to propose reforms. Protecting the Independence of Inspectors General – Oversight Republicans investigated and produced reports on the removal of two Inspector General: the IG for the Corporation for National and Community Service and the IG for Amtrak. In both cases there was strong evidence that the IGs were removed for highly improper reasons. Inspector Generals must have independence and must know that investigating waste and mismanagement isn't going to cost them their jobs. There are supposed to be 74 IGs, but right now there are 11 vacant positions including the Departments of State and Interior where there hasn't even been nominations. IGs are critical allies for oversight in Congress and the Oversight Committee needs to examine what can be done to better protect their independence, their ability to look for waste and abuse in federal agencies, and to make sure vacancies are filled in a timely manner. Federal IT Systems – Technology can make government more efficient, transparent, and interactive with citizens...Far too often, federal investments for IT improvements have run way over budget, or in the worst of scenarios, fail to meet any projected goals... In the 111th Congress, the Committee has not devoted sufficient time to oversight and reform efforts in this costly and critical area. Federal Financial Management – Addressing the real issue behind the government's fiscal woes – irresponsible, runaway spending – is daunting enough, but adding fuel to the fire is the widely acknowledged fact that the federal government cannot even track its own spending well enough to give a verifiable accounting of how taxpayer's money is being spent. In 2009, for the 13th straight year, GAO found that the federal government's consolidated financial statements were not auditable due to persistent financial management problems, including the government's inability to account for interagency funding activity and other ineffective systems, processes, and internal controls at federal agencies. TARP Oversight – While the efforts of the Minority have pulled back the curtain on some aspects of high-profile bailouts, the refusal of the Majority to assist on numerous requests have left many questions unanswered. Failures at the SEC – Despite a budget that nearly tripled between 2000 and 2010, the SEC has not lived up to its watchdog responsibilities. The scandals involving Bernie Madoff, Enron, WorldCom, and others during the past decade were not detected by SEC investigators but by journalists, whistleblowers and others. In many cases the SEC had the information it needed to frauds years earlier but failed to put the pieces together until after the wrongdoing had already been uncovered. Stimulus Oversight – Since the stimulus was designed to spend taxpayer dollars quickly, there are also significant concerns that waste, fraud, and abuse is going undetected. The failure of the stimulus to reduce unemployment is perhaps the most significant concern of many Americans who have been hit hardest by the recession. Countrywide – As part of its ongoing investigations into the causes of the financial crisis, Committee Republicans exposed large quantities of previously unknown details about Countrywide Financial Corporation's "Friends of Angelo" program, which provided sweetheart mortgages to so-called "VIPs" as part of its larger investigation of influence peddling by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other companies involved in affordable mortgage lending. At the same time that Fannie-Freddie executives were accepting Countrywide VIP loans, The New York Times has reported about "how assiduously Fannie pursued Mr. Mozilo and 14 of his lieutenants to make sure the company continued to shovel loans its way." Presidential Records Act – To ensure compliance with both the Presidential Records Act and the Hatch Act, the Committee needs to conduct oversight to monitor the technology associated with the White House E-mail archiving system and the maintenance of private e-mail accounts by White House staff. This effort actually began under Democrats. Former Chairman Henry Waxman's oversight of the White House's use of e-mail became an issue of bipartisan concern – not the political aspect of it, but the fact that there was a clear failure of government and waste of taxpayer dollars. In the 111th Congress, the Majority has not continued critical oversight initiatives in this area despite the repeated urgings of the Minority. Federal Agency Performance Management – As the main oversight body in the House of Representatives, the Committee has an obligation to hold federal agencies accountable for performance. While federal agency funding has increased tremendously, attention to agency performance under GPRA and other performance legislation and possible reforms of performance legislation, such as requiring outcome-based performance goals, has received short shrift in the 111th Congress. # # #
09.15.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Republicans today asked the American people to help investigate taxpayer-funded "stimulus" cheerleading signs in an effort to hold the Obama Administration accountable for its failed job-creation promises. Now, you can follow this citizen-led oversight work on an interactive, sharable map. So be a watchdog: see a sign, take a picture and send it with the address to stimulussigns@mail.house.gov. Embed and share the map on your own website: <iframe src="http://imapflickr.com/edcd59" height="511 width="542" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px;" border="0"></iframe>
07.29.2010	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista), a member of the House Judiciary Committee and the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform released the following statement today regarding a federal judge’s ruling to block key provisions of legislation passed by the State of Arizona providing state law enforcement with the authority to enforce immigration laws: “The federal government has a right and a responsibility to enforce existing laws, but when they fail to meet that responsibility, we should not stand in the way of the states that take action to respond to the very real threat of border violence, drug cartels and human smuggling. The people who live under the constant threat of border violence have every right to be protected and have every right to defend themselves, their families and their communities. “I am certain that the Supreme Court would agree that there is no legal recourse or precedent for stopping a state from operating within its rights by asserting its sovereignty in support of immigration laws that the federal government has failed to enforce. There’s nowhere in the Constitution that says a state is limited to what it absolutely won’t do and can be stopped for what it might do and to exercise a judgment against a state that has passed a law that is consistent with existing federal law is beyond absurd.” ###
07.07.2010	WASHINGTON. D.C. – As the Obama Administration launched an offensive against the State of Arizona’s effort to allow law enforcement officers to verify the immigration status of individuals suspected of committing a crime, 34 illegal immigrants were caught along the Southern California coast today including a group of 18 who landed at the Marine Corp Base Camp Pendleton. “Now that President Obama has decided to make a crusade targeting states like Arizona who are enforcing our nation’s immigration laws to protect their citizens from the threat posed by drug cartels, gangs and human trafficking operations, maybe the President will have the Justice Department investigate the United States Marine Corps for enforcing the law as well,” said Rep. Darrell Issa (CA-49), whose district includes Camp Pendleton. “For the better part of two decades, citizens in border states like Arizona, Texas and California have been told that illegal immigration enforcement is the responsibility of the federal government while their concerns about the safety of their families and communities have been largely brushed aside or met with inconsistent, under-resourced and ineffective responses from the federal government.” Issa, who is the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a member of the House Judiciary Committee added, “Just as the military officials at Camp Pendleton did today, states like Arizona who’s citizens live under the constant threat of border violence have every right to be enforce the rule of law, protect and defend themselves, their families and their communities." Issa joined with a group of House lawmakers today in sending a letter to Attorney General Holder criticizing the Obama administration’s decision to challenge Arizona’s 2010 immigration enforcement law, SB1070. The letter was signed by Representatives Darrell Issa (CA-49), Lamar Smith (TX-21), Steve King (IA-05), Trent Franks (AZ-02), Ed Royce (CA-40), Todd Tiahrt (KS-04), Dana Rohrabacher (CA-46), Sue Myrick (NC-09), Elton Gallegly (CA-24), Marsha Blackburn (TN-07), Dan Burton (IN-05), Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (CA-25), Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05), Gary Miller (CA-42), Gregg Harper (MS-03), Brian Bilbray (CA-50), John Carter (TX-31), Peter King (NY-03), Jason Chaffetz (UT-03), Jeff Miller (FL-01). ###
07.06.2010	WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-Vista) released the following statement today regarding the Obama Administration’s intention of filing a lawsuit challenging legislation passed by the State of Arizona providing state law enforcement with the authority to enforce immigration laws: “For the better part of two decades, citizens in border states like Arizona, Texas and California have been told that illegal immigration enforcement is the responsibility of the federal government while their concerns about the safety of their families and communities have been largely brushed aside or met with inconsistent, under-resourced and ineffective responses from the federal government. They now find themselves over-run by drug cartels, gangs and human trafficking. The people who live under the constant threat of border violence have every right to be protected and have every right to defend themselves, their families and their communities. “For President Obama to stand in the way of a state which has taken action to stand-up for its citizens against this daily threat of violence and fear is disgraceful and a betrayal of his Constitutional obligation to protect our citizens. Rather than spend time, energy, resources and money stopping a state from enforcing existing immigration laws, the Obama Administration should instead mobilize every resource available to stand with these states and families who live daily with the reality of violent crime along an unsecure border and suffer the consequences of the federal government’s failure.” ###
06.24.2010	WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) sent a letter today to Interior Secretary Ken Salazar regarding “two significant decisions announced by the President and your Department not only conflict with this statement, but cast serious doubt upon the federal government’s commitment to contain the leak which is directly affecting the people of the Gulf.” According to Louisiana’s Placquemines Parish President Billy Nungesser, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service ordered him to cease dredging off the Chandelier Islands by 6:00 p.m. on June 22, 2010. “As described by Mr. Nungesser, the Department’s order – which appears to be rooted in mere supposition – directs the Parish to move dredging two additional miles offshore,” Issa wrote. “Mr. Nungesser maintains that modifying his dredging operation will take seven days to complete. While the Parish’s current efforts are suspended, pending relocation to a new site, oil will continue to flow unimpeded into marshland and natural habitats. If, as Ms. Lyder indicates, the Department requires dredgers to backfill what they have already removed before continuing operations, it could be weeks before vital progress is made. After 65 days and over 90,000,000 gallons of leaked oil, such nonsensical bureaucratic delay cannot be tolerated.” The dredging operation on the eastern portion of the islands, which provides more than 50,000 cubic yards of material per day, is critical to forming sand berms along the Gulf coast. These structures, permitted by the Army Corps of Engineers, provide a necessary layer of defense against oil slicks, hurricanes, and tropical storms. Without them, the Parish and its industry will suffer far more devastation than Hurricane Katrina caused in 2005. According to U.S. Fish and Wildlife Deputy Assistant Secretary Jane Lyder during a teleconference with Committee staff on June 23, 2010, the Department believes the dredging will accelerate erosion. In turn, the viability of the islands will be at risk over the long term. However, according to Ms. Lyder, there is no scientific modeling that suggests such an impact, or over what period of time. “We just know that it’s harmful.” The apparent lack of scientific evidence behind this decision is breathtaking. “My second concern relates to your decision to appeal the recent federal court order blocking the imposition of a six-month moratorium on drilling, and your announced intention to impose a new ban,” Issa wrote. “Despite the court’s decision and the advice of experts, it appears that you are engaging in a new effort to reinstate the moratorium that still may not have scientific backing. It is my understanding these same experts personally expressed in a meeting with you on June 21, 2010, their concern that the moratorium will actually increase the risk associated with deepwater drilling once a six-month ban is lifted. According to Ken Arnold, an engineer who your agency consulted on the report and was present at the June 21 meeting, these concerns were presented to you in the form of a PowerPoint presentation. Your efforts to pursue a moratorium that is not supported by the scientific community and Gulf residents is unconscionable.” Issa requested that the Secretary provide the Committee with the following information: A copy of the PowerPoint presentation delivered by members of the National Academy of Engineering on June 21, 2010; All documents and communications referring or relating to the development of recommendations contained in the “Increased Safety Measures for Energy Development on the Outer Continental Shelf,” including, but not limited to, documents relating to the six-month moratorium on drilling; All documents and communications referring or relating to the decision ordering Louisiana’s Placquemines Parish President Billy Nungesser to cease dredging operations on June 22, 2010; and All documents referring or relating to the Administration’s decision to appeal the injunction granted by Judge Feldman on June 22, 2010. ###
06.18.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – An amendment by Oversight and Government Reform Committee Ranking Member Darrell Issa to prohibit bailed out firms owned by the Federal Government from retaining or employing a registered lobbyist was defeated Thursday afternoon in the conference committee for financial reform legislation. Issa’s amendment was supported by all voting Republicans on the Conference Committee as well as Rep. Mary Jo Kilroy (D-OH). Despite the bipartisan support, Democrats managed to defeat the Issa amendment by a vote of 9-13. “It’s absurd that taxpayers have to pay for lobbyists so government owned – and possibly controlled – companies can lobby the federal government for more money and favorable treatment. The decision by Democrats to defend this practice is regrettable and deeply self-serving,” said Rep. Issa. “Passing this amendment would have given bailed out firms another incentive to quickly pay back taxpayers. Its defeat means lobbyists for government owned companies can breathe easier knowing they too benefit from bailouts and their paychecks are secure as long as they continue to win favorable outcomes from government officials for their clients.” Click here for a copy of the Issa Amendment offered at the Conference Committee for financial reform legislation. ###
06.15.2010	WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA), who was briefed yesterday by Federal On-Scene Coordinator Rear Admiral Watson, BP, MMS, EPA and NOAA at Unified Area Command in New Orleans, released the following statement tonight responding to President Obama’s national address: “After receiving an in-person briefing at Unified Area Command, I was informed that we are in danger of losing tens of thousands of jobs permanently as companies are actively considering moving operations to other areas in the world. Conspicuously absent from the President’s address was a plan detailing what to do to replace and retain the tens-of-thousands gulf region jobs that have been suspended due to the six-month moratorium that halted operations on 33 permitted deepwater wells. With the nation struggling with a prolonged period of joblessness, immediate action is needed by President Obama to get the workers he displaced back to work. “The politics of this crisis should not result in the permanent loss of tens of thousands of American jobs. In the State of Louisiana alone, where one-in-three jobs is related to the oil and natural gas industry, the moratorium will cripple their economy and leave thousands of families without income. The President faces a decision to either let these jobs permanently leave the Gulf Region resulting in irreparable economic harm or pursue an immediate avenue that can put these well-operators back to work without drilling in high-pressure zones that aren’t safe.” The moratorium was put in place based on a report from the U.S. Department of Interior in which the report claimed to have been peer-reviewed by seven experts. Following the release of the report, five of the seven experts and the National Academy of Engineering came forward and publicly denied recommending or supporting the moratorium warning that the moratorium “will have immediate and long term economic effects.” To date, more than 41,000 people have joined the Gulf Economic Survival Team (GEST) and signed the petition calling on the President to end the drilling moratorium. The Louisiana Department of Economic Development estimates that the active drilling suspension alone will result in a loss of 3,000 to 6,000 Louisiana jobs in the first two to three weeks and more than 10,000 jobs within a few months. Just the state alone is at risk of losing more than 20,000 existing and potential new jobs during a 12 to 18 month period. ###
06.04.2010	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform today released the following statement regarding new job numbers for the month of May that report that of the 431,000 jobs “created”, 411,000 (95 %) were a result of temporary census worker hiring’s by the Federal Government: “It's clear that the only thing benefiting from the economic policies of the Obama Administration and the Democratic Congress is the government. Trillions of dollars of deficit spending have failed to live-up to the Administration's promise of long-term, full-time job creation. They have been long on promises, long on rhetoric but short on results. The current plan of deficit spending while ignoring the root causes of our economic meltdown like Fannie/Freddie has stagnated job growth and jeopardized the future solvency of our nation's economic.” ###
06.03.2010	WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) announced today released documents obtained from the Coast Guard including a log of events from the immediate aftermath of the April 20 explosion onboard the Deepwater Horizon shedding new information on the first days of the disaster. “These documents raise new questions about whether the White House was slow to respond to an incident that was quickly recognized by the Coast Guard as a potentially catastrophic threat to the environment, said Issa. “It appears as if this Administration would rather tell a half-truth if the full-truth doesn’t fit the story they want to tell. Less than 48 hours after the explosion multiple attempts to activate the blowout preventer had already failed and the Coast Guard knew 8,000 barrels of crude oil spilling into gulf waters each day was a real possibility. Americans have a right to be outraged by this spill, by top government officials caught off-guard, and by the facts the White House omitted in explaining what it knew and when it knew it.” Click Here for Story and Timeline Compiled by the Center for Public Integrity Highlights from the logs: New Questions about Erroneous Oil Leak Estimates – On April 21 the Coast Guard evaluated the “potential environmental threat” and concluded that in addition to 700,000 gallons of diesel from the vessel there was an “estimated potential of 8000 barrels per day of crude oil, if the well were to completely blowout.” This estimate, made one day after the explosion, was larger than both the initial 1000 barrels per day first estimate of oil lost and the first upward revision to 5000 barrels of oil leaking per day. Early Failed Attempts to Secure the Well – While it has been reported that the first efforts to use remote operated vehicles (ROV) to activate the well’s blowout preventer occurred on April 25, Coast Guard logs indicate that efforts actually began on April 21. On April 22 logs state, “ROV attempts to shut-in the well were unsuccessful; a third attempt is being conducted.” The White House and “No Apparent Leak” – The White House Oil Spill Timeline states that on April 23 there was “No Apparent Leak.” Coast Guard documents, however, reveal the full context of the claim. Coast Guard logs from April 23 state: “Earlier reports that the ROV had confirmed that that the blowout preventer valve was closed was incorrect. ROV has only been able to confirm there is no visible flow from the well.” Why wasn’t the oil visually evident? Coast Guard logs from April 22 point to the massive fire: “The majority of the oil continues to be mitigated by the fire … use of ROV to shut-in the well has been unsuccessful after several attempts.” Click here to read the Coast Guard documents and logs on the early hours of the Gulf oil spill tragedy. ###
05.28.2010	“We’re looking to fundamentally change the status quo in Washington. It’s a status quo that extends beyond any particular party, and right now that status quo is fighting back with everything it’s got, with the same old tactics that divide and distract us from solving the problems people face…we’re up against the idea that it’s acceptable to say anything and do anything to win an election.” – Candidate Obama, Night of the South Carolina Democratic Primary WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement regarding the memorandum released today by White House Counsel Robert Bauer addressing allegations made by Pennsylvania Senate Democratic nominee and three-star Navy Admiral Rep. Joe Sestak (D-PA) that someone inside the Obama White House offered him a job in exchange for his withdrawal from the PA Senate Primary race: “After more than ten weeks of outstanding questions, the White House has offered a version of events that has important differences from what Congressman Sestak has been saying for months – that he was offered a ‘job’ by ‘someone in the White House’ in exchange for leaving the Pennsylvania Senate race. “I’m very concerned that in the rush to put together this report, the White House has done everything but explain its own actions and has instead worked to craft a story behind closed doors and coordinate with those involved. The White House has admitted today to coordinating an arrangement that would represent an illegal quid-pro-quo as federal law prohibits directly or indirectly offering any position or appointment, paid or unpaid, in exchange for favors connected with an election. “President Clinton and Congressman Sestak now need to answer questions about what the White House has released today – that at the behest of the White House Chief of staff, they dispatched a former President to get Joe Sestak out of the Pennsylvania Senate Primary. Regardless of what President Clinton or Congressman Sestak now say, it is abundantly clear that this kind of conduct is contrary to President Obama’s pledge to change ‘business as usual’ and that his Administration has engaged in the kind of political shenanigans he once campaigned to end.” 18 U.S.C. § 600 – Promise of employment or other benefit for political activity Whoever, directly or indirectly, promises any employment, position, compensation, contract, appointment, or other benefit, provided for or made possible in whole or in part by any Act of Congress, or any special consideration in obtaining any such benefit, to any person as consideration, favor, or reward for any political activity or for the support of or opposition to any candidate or any political party in connection with any general or special election to any political office, or in connection with any primary election or political convention or caucus held to select candidates for any political office, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than one year, or both. 18 U.S.C. § 211 – Acceptance or solicitation to obtain appointive public office Whoever solicits or receives, either as a political contribution, or for personal emolument, any money or thing of value, in consideration of the promise of support or use of influence in obtaining for any person any appointive office or place under the United States, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than one year, or both. Whoever solicits or receives any thing of value in consideration of aiding a person to obtain employment under the United States either by referring his name to an executive department or agency of the United States or by requiring the payment of a fee because such person has secured such employment shall be fined under this title, or imprisoned not more than one year, or both. This section shall not apply to such services rendered by an employment agency pursuant to the written request of an executive department or agency of the United States. 18 U.S.C. § 595 – Interference by administrative employees of Federal, State, or Territorial Governments Whoever, being a person employed in any administrative position by the United States, or by any department or agency thereof, or by the District of Columbia or any agency or instrumentality thereof, or by any State, Territory, or Possession of the United States, or any political subdivision, municipality, or agency thereof, or agency of such political subdivision or municipality (including any corporation owned or controlled by any State, Territory, or Possession of the United States or by any such political subdivision, municipality, or agency), in connection with any activity which is financed in whole or in part by loans or grants made by the United States, or any department or agency thereof, uses his official authority for the purpose of interfering with, or affecting, the nomination or the election of any candidate for the office of President, Vice President, Presidential elector, Member of the Senate, Member of the House of Representatives, Delegate from the District of Columbia, or Resident Commissioner, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than one year, or both. This section shall not prohibit or make unlawful any act by any officer or employee of any educational or research institution, establishment, agency, or system which is supported in whole or in part by any state or political subdivision thereof, or by the District of Columbia or by any Territory or Possession of the United States; or by any recognized religious, philanthropic or cultural organization. ###
05.27.2010	WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement today regarding the resignation of Minerals and Management Service (MMS) chief Elizabeth Birnbaum: “This is an agency that has been over-run by corruption and incompetence spanning multiple Administrations and multiple personnel. While leadership changes are necessary and a good first step, there are much larger issues that cannot be addressed by just re-shuffling the deck. In the past ten years, there have been 20 reports by the GAO, Inspectors General and the Congress that have all gone ignored. It wasn’t until we were immersed in an unprecedented catastrophe that anyone in government decided to take action. “As has been exhaustively documented, the problems at MMS aren’t just limited to them but also extend to their relationship with the Department of Interior. We are seeing the result of a broken bureaucracy with a dysfunctional culture that is in desperate need of substantial and immediate reform.” Last October, Issa introduced H.R. 3736, which would strip the Department of the Interior of its management responsibilities for the Minerals Management Service (MMS) and make the troubled collector of oil, mineral, and natural gas revenues an independent agency. The case for the legislation is made in an Oversight and Government Reform Committee Republican staff report, which concludes MMS will benefit from a divorce from the Department of the Interior and the creation of dedicated funding, a new management structure, and leadership focused on MMS’ unique role in collecting royalties owed to the American people. ###
05.25.2010	WASHINGTON D.C. – Appearing this morning on NBC’s Meet the Press, CBS’s Face the Nation and on Fox News Sunday, Rep. Joe Sestak (D-PA), the Pennsylvania Democratic nominee for U.S. Senate and Democratic National Committee Chairman Tim Kaine said the White House should be responsible for further addressing allegations first made by Sestak in February that someone within the Obama White House offered him a job (rumored to be the Secretary of the Navy) in exchange for securing his withdrawal from the Pennsylvania Primary. “The bottom line is all fingers are being pointed back to the White House,” said Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. “This Chicago-style politicking is an assault on our democracy and is downright criminal. President Obama faces a critical choice – he can either live-up to his rhetoric of transparency and accountability by disclosing who inside his White House tried to manipulate an election by bribing a U.S. Congressman or he can allow his Administration to continue this stonewalling and relinquish the mantle of change and transparency he is so fond of speaking on.” Sestak on Meet the Press: Gregory: What’s the answer, what’s the job you were offered? Sestak: Anybody else has to decide for themselves what to say upon their role and that’s their responsibility? Gregory: Yes or no, straight forward question, were you offered a job and what was the job? Sestak: I was offered a job and I answered that. Gregory: You said no you wouldn’t take the job? Was it the Secretary of the Navy job? Sestak: Anything that goes beyond that is for others to talk about. Kaine on Fox News Sunday: Wallace: “Should the White House answer the question openly and honestly instead of stonewalling?” Kaine: “…But look, if the question gets asked, it's something they should deal with...” ### Clik here to read the article.
05.18.2010	Unaffordable Housing and Political Kickbacks Rocked the American Economy CLICK HERE TO READ Misguided Government Policies Directly Led to Financial Crisis “The economic earthquake that shook the world financial markets and bankrupted seemingly invulnerable multi­national corporations exposed perilous fault lines of the federal government's own creation…Now that the Obama Administration's comprehensive regu­latory reform proposals are making their way through Con­gress, the time has come to identify the root causes of the most recent economic downturn…the economic crisis we are experiencing is directly tied to an over-inflated housing bubble wherein mortgage lenders made reckless, high-risk loans. These loans were given in record num­ber to over-extended, under-qualified borrowers to satisfy an increasingly aggressive government drive for home ownership. Why the lenders adopted such counterintuitive and irresponsi­ble business practices is the critical question. The answer reveals the disastrous folly of government intervention in the housing market spanning more than three quarters of a century.” Fannie-Freddie the Original “Too Big Too Fail” “To secure affordable housing, Congress created a new Gov­ernment Sponsored Enterprise (GSE) known as the Federal Na­tional Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) during the Great De­pression to purchase and securitize home mortgages and promotes greater liquidity in the mortgage market…as the market for secondary mortgages grew, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac nearly achieved monopoly results thanks to numerous competitive advantages guaranteed through their unique relationship with the federal government. Among these advantages were government-backed lines of credit equal to a whopping $2.25 billion and a corollary market reputation that led investors to believe the GSEs were too big to fail. This inflated investor confidence and exclusive government protec­tion resulted in an unnatural expansion of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's market dominance, and by the time the 1990s rolled around, the corporations together held more than three quarters of the secondary market for prime mortgages.'” Fannie-Freddie’s Unnatural Competitive Advantage Created Monopoly on Mortgage Market “The GSEs were aided immensely by the federal government because Congress charged Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with keeping the secondary mortgage market liquid and increasing the availability of affordable housing. No other private compa­nies could borrow money at such an affordable rate. Private debt markets were willing to lend the GSEs money at an inter­est rate not much higher than the relatively risk-free rate they charged the U.S. government itself.” Home Ownership Push About Political Gain “Along the way, Congress continued to impose requirements on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to guarantee affordable hous­ing opportunities to more and more Americans, including those whose credit ratings and annual income could not sus­tain a traditional mortgage. Under increased pressure to lower underwriting standards and to meet congressional mandates for loans to low-income families, the GSEs fell victim to succes­sive administrations' campaign promises to increase home ownership regardless of the individual or systemic risk.'” Politicization of Mortgages Reached Zenith in Clinton Administration “The politicization of mortgage lending reached its zenith during the Clinton Administration through major alterations of the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977,' a piece of legisla­tion originally passed to prevent banks from discriminating against otherwise credit-worthy borrowers in lower-income neighborhoods. The Clinton-era policies emphasized, on the other hand, performance-based standards of evaluation that tied bank ratings to the volume rather than the fairness of the banks' mortgage lending.'' As subprime lending increased to meet the Clinton Administration's standards, so did the pres­sure on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to purchase those loans on the secondary market to promote liquidity, regardless of the loans' quality and sustainability.'' This "affordable housing" scheme inevitably started a mort­gage bonanza, just as it was designed to do….By the time the myth of these "affordable" housing policies is fully realized, GSE mortgages could result in nearly 8.8 million foreclosures. So far, the fallout has led to the injection of billions of taxpayer dollars and a government takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in September 2008 to prevent their total collapse and dissolution.” Congressional Fiat and Nexus of Political Interests Led to Our Own Demise “Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac had gambled on zero down payment mortgages to subprime borrowers with assurances that the unprecedented risk would be absorbed by the U.S. taxpayers in the end. A trifecta of irresponsible congressional mandates, ill-advised executive policies, and illusory market confidence provided both the rationale and the capital for dan­gerous leveraging and overexposure. Quite simply, a nexus of "affordable" housing mortgage lenders, the homebuilding industry, and major investment firms created a powerful "affordable" housing coalition led by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and their political allies in Washing­ton, D.C. This group used its money and power to buy influ­ence on Capitol Hill. Between 1998 and 2008, Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae spent as much as $176 million on lobbying efforts to block legislative reform that would have stripped them of their preferential advantages.” Americans Who Needed Help the Most Hit Hardest by Foreclosures “The real tragedy of the government's affordable housing policy is its impact on average Americans, particularly those of modest means. Millions of these borrowers, who were supposedly helped by federal affordable housing policies, have now been forced into delinquency and foreclosure, destroying their asset base, their credit, and in some cases, their families…According to the Pew Hispanic Center, nearly one in ten Latino homeowners said they had missed a mortgage payment or were unable to make a full payment, and three percent said they have received a fore­closure notice in the past year. At the same time, sixty-two percent of Latino homeowners said there have been foreclosures in their neighborhoods, and thirty-six percent say they are worried about their own homes going into foreclosure.” Failure to Address Fannie-Freddie will Result in Deeper Crisis and Turmoil “The consequences of these policies brought the entire global financial system to the brink of collapse, destroying trillions in equity and disrupting untold numbers of lives. It is essential to reexamine the borrow and spend, high-leverage policies that became prevalent in the mortgage market as a result of well­ intentioned but reckless decisions made by elected officials. Without a return to fiscal discipline and prudent, responsible housing policies, we will continue to make the same mistakes that led to the current financial crisis.” ###
04.30.2010	A feather-duster attached to a space heater covertly submitted by GAO investigators as a “Room Air Cleaner” had an “Energy Star” designation approved by the EPA. Issa and Barrasso Ask EPA to Account for Outrageous “Energy Star” Approvals; Ask How EPA Will Catch Fraud in a Carbon Offset Program WASHINGTON D.C. – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Ranking Member Darrell Issa and Senate Environment and Public Works, Subcommittee on Oversight Ranking Member John Barrasso today asked Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Lisa Jackson to account for outrageous failings of the Energy Star Program discovered by the Government Accountability Office (GAO). “The GAO found that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) administered Energy Star program was extremely vulnerable to fraud and abuse,” the lawmakers wrote to Jackson. “EPA’s apparent failure with a program designed to reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions is alarming and it has put multiple millions of taxpayer dollars in serious jeopardy. Moreover, it calls into question EPA’s ability to take on the larger responsibility of overseeing the integrity of future greenhouse gas reduction efforts.” “If EPA can be punked with a space heater and feather duster, how does it expect to police carbon-offsets under cap-and-trade?” asked Rep. Issa. “Expanding EPA’s responsibilities under cap-and-trade will lead to massive fraud, kill American jobs, and devastate our economy.” According to Senator Barrasso, “Once again, independent federal watchdogs have discovered more waste and abuse at the EPA. The recent GAO report makes the Energy Star Program seem like an Energy Fraud Program. If the EPA can’t effectively manage the Energy Star Program, how will the agency be able to successfully implement a complicated cap and trade program? Our letter today calls upon the EPA to clearly explain its inability to protect American taxpayer dollars. We need more jobs in this country – not more government waste and inefficient bureaucracies.” The Energy Star program was introduced by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in 1992, under the authority of the Clean Air Act, as a voluntary labeling program designed to promote energy efficient computers and monitors. Through expansions the label is now found on over 60 product categories including residential heating, ventilation, and cooling (HVAC) equipment, major appliances, office equipment, lighting, home electronics, new homes, and commercial and industrial buildings, with a reported energy-efficiency savings of up to 10 to 25 percent over the minimum federal standards. GAO tested the program for susceptibility to fraud by submitting qualified product information (QPI) forms and efficiency information via the Online Product Submittal (OPS) tool for 20 bogus products. Of the products submitted, 15 (including the “Air Room Cleaner”) were approved, 2 were denied Energy Star qualification, and 3 products were voluntarily removed by GAO because it had not received an official qualification determination by the time our investigation was completed. Click here for the letter Rep. Issa and Sen. Barrasso sent to Administrator Jackson Click here for the GAO Energy Star report ###
04.28.2010	WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Edolphus Towns (D-NY), Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA), Census Subcommittee Chairman Lacy Clay (D-MO), Subcommittee Ranking Member Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) and Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) released the following statement today after the House of Representatives unanimously passed legislation (H.R. 5148) sponsored by Issa that removes any ambiguity from the bipartisan law (H.R. 4621) signed last month (sponsored by Rep. Maloney) regarding the use of the word “census” on mailable material. “Only a few weeks ago, the House acted unanimously to bring an end to misleading fundraising mail designed to look like it is from the Census Bureau. When it comes to the Census there is no separation between Republicans and Democrats. Working together we thought we put an end to this deceptive practice. Unfortunately, the foolishness of the RNC to move forward with yet another deceptive mail piece has caused us to act again. “Today we sent an unmistakable and unified message that it is wrong to use the census to mislead citizens, confuse voters and annoy recipients. The bipartisan legislation we passed unanimously today makes it clear to the RNC what was clear to all of us: that any use of the word Census visible through the envelope will trigger a requirement to disclose the name and return address of the sender. “The Census, currently underway, is a vital source of information for American’s future. We thank our colleagues on both sides of the aisle for supporting this critically important legislation that will protect the integrity of the Census.” ###
04.27.2010	Bipartisan bill recommends changes to improve costs, reduce crime and violence WASHINGTON. D.C. – Today, House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) joined Reps. Bill Delahunt (D-MA), Marcia Fudge (D-OH), Tom Rooney (R-FL), and Bobby Scott (D-VA) to introduce H.R. 5143, the “National Criminal Justice Commission Act of 2010.” H.R. 5143 would create a bi-partisan commission to review the nation’s criminal justice system and recommend changes to improve costs, reduce crime and violence. “Our justice system is expensive, makes mistakes and too often fails to shield the public from dangerous criminals,” Issa said. “The opportunity to learn lessons from past failures, along with the promise of new technologies and systems, makes conducting a high-level examination of our justice system a worthwhile effort. There is certainly room to correct shortcomings while preserving the pillars of our legal system, and I am also pleased to work with my colleagues on both sides of the isle to push this bipartisan commission.” The National Criminal Justice Commission would undertake a comprehensive 18-month review of the criminal justice system, encompassing federal, state, local, and tribal criminal justice policies and practices. The Commission will publish its recommendations in a final report to the President, Congress, state, local, and tribal governments and be made available to the public. The majority and minority leaderships in the House of Representatives and the Senate, as well as the President will select the fourteen members of the Commission. Appointments in the House and Senate will be made in consultation with the Judiciary Committee Chairmen and Ranking members. The bill has received widespread bi-partisan support with 37 cosponsors in the Senate as well as the endorsement of approximately 100 organizations. H.R. 5143 was introduced in the House of Representatives by Rep. Delahunt this week and was referred to the House Committee on the Judiciary. Rep. Issa is the lead Republican cosponsor. ###
03.29.2010	Rep. Darrell Issa: If White House won’t investigate, special prosecutor will By: Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif. OpEd Contributor March 29, 2010 On six different occasions, White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs has offered six different responses to straightforward questions regarding Rep. Joe Sestak’s, D-Pa., accusation that he was offered a plum appointment in exchange for his withdrawal from a primary challenge to Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa. Sestak has been clear. For months his story hasn’t changed. Sestak has gone on record that in July 2009 the White House offered him a federal job to keep him out of the Pennsylvania Senate race. He will not divulge the name of the person who offered the position, and he will not disclose the nature of the job that was offered. But the essence of his story has not changed, and he has not walked-back his allegation. The law is also clear. If President Obama – or anyone else at the White House for that matter – used his official authority for the purpose of interfering with, or affecting, the nomination or the election of any candidate for federal office, then a felony has been committed subject to both a fine and a prison sentence. Clearly, these are very serious charges. The White House, however, seems to subscribe to the notion that if they ignore the issue and stonewall questions from the media and Congress alike, the issue will simply go quietly away. The underlying question for the American people is: Will we let them get away with it? I have now sent two letters to the White House – both of which remain unanswered – asking some straightforward questions about who offered Sestak a position, what position was offered, when and under what conditions the offer was made, and what investigation the administration is conducting to determine the extent of the crime. After being asked day-after-day in White House briefings, Gibbs finally acknowledged that something had happened and that he, the press secretary, personally discussed the matter with several White House staffers and concluded that “whatever conversations have been had are not problematic” and that “whatever happened is in the past.” A few off-hand questions posed by the chief press aide hardly constitutes the type of inquiry that is warranted by a serious charge of criminal conduct on the part of administration officials. The arrogance is apparent in Gibbs’s assertion that the American people need not worry about illegal activity in the White House because the press secretary has read a memo or two and bumped into fellow staffers at the water cooler. The White House’s insistence that Sestak’s allegation of a corrupt offer isn’t “problematic” is indicative of the disturbing Chicago-style mindset that pervades this administration. Either the congressman is telling the truth, and administration officials have broken the law, or he’s lying, in which case his outrageous falsehood should be exposed. Until we get answers, the questions aren’t going away. Frankly, if what Gibbs says is true, there is no reason why the White House shouldn’t be willing to put forward who said what and when. Their refusal to offer a real explanation only reinforces the unavoidable conclusion that the White House is hiding something. The bottom line is if the White House continues to stonewall Congress and the American people, I will petition the attorney general to appoint a special prosecutor to launch an investigation into the allegation. In the meantime, I fear we’re in for more obtuse and evasive statements from administration officials. In that case, the White House will be falling back on a concerted scheme and cover-up strategy not seen in Washington since the days of Watergate. Somebody might want to remind the president how that story ended. Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif., is ranking member on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
03.29.2010	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Rep. Rick Boucher (D-VA), along with Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers (D-MI) and Ranking Member Lamar Smith (R-TX) have introduced legislation aimed at stopping frivolous patent litigation related to the marking of products. “Our bill discourages deceptive patent marking while simultaneously moving to eliminate frivolous lawsuits,” said Rep. Issa. “This is a commonsense effort that protects consumers from higher costs created by abusive lawsuits.” Current law allows any individual to sue a manufacturer for falsely marking a product for $500 (the government gets $250, the plaintiff gets $250). Suits filed under this law have been steadily rising over the past few years with individuals with no reasonable standing filing dozens of suits hoping for a quick settlement. This had been a rarely used law, but recently the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit held that damages flowed from not one infringing product, but from every instance of that product. This meant that if you manufactured 10,000,000 Styrofoam cups, each with the wrong patent number on it, you could be liable for $5,000,000,000. This was not the intent of Congress. HR 4954 amends the Patent Act by limiting standing to sue to competitors who have actually been damaged and only for “damages adequate to compensate for the injury.” Click here for a copy of H.R. 4954. ###
03.21.2010	WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following video response tonight regarding the partisan passage of “Obama-Care” and what unintended consequences the American people can expect as a result of tonight’s vote: CLICK HERE to View Rep. Issa’s Statement “It’s a sad day for the American people. It’s a huge tax increase, a cut in senior benefits and absolutely nothing to change the spiraling costs of health care…the concern is if you can bribe, and I mean bribe members of the House and Senate to get their votes then democracy as we know it simply won’t work. “Certainly we need to make sure that all Americans have access to affordable health care. Affordable meaning drive down the costs of health care. Access being a combination of a federal and state understanding that you’re going to have to allow people into pools regardless of their age or pre-existing conditions but that’s not a disagreement among the American people, it’s not a disagreement among Members of Congress, the problem we have is without really attacking those underlying problems, we’ve simply created new bureaucracy and huge new taxes at a time when American can’t afford that. “H.R. 3438 is a very simple seven page bill that simply says to the American people – you can have access to the same high quality health care that I enjoy along with 8 million people in the federal government and their family… “As Speaker Pelosi said, ‘after we pass it, then you get to see it.’ Clearly, they’ll be huge amounts of surprises in this bill and unfortunately they’ll all be unpleasant.”
03.17.2010	Issa Challenges Speaker to Hold Up or Down Vote on H.R. 3438 WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) has challenged Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) to hold an up-or-down vote on H.R. 3438, the Access to Insurance for All Americans Act which would give all Americans access to the same health benefit plans that Members of Congress and federal employees choose from for their health care coverage. Also today, Rep. Issa released a new video revealing the President, in his own words, rhetorically supporting Issa’s bill: “President Obama and Speaker Pelosi have said that the American people deserve the same high quality health care that Members of Congress receive. Then why is it that H.R. 3438, a simple seven-page bill that gives everyone in America the opportunity to have the same quality health care as Members of Congress, is being ignored? The current health care proposal is thousands of pages of promises that ultimately do not give Americans what the President and Speaker claim they want to give. I challenge Speaker Pelosi to give H.R. 3438 a straight up-or-down vote and I would bet that a bipartisan miracle would happen on the House floor.” Click here to watch Rep. Issa's Speech on the House Floor Click Here to Watch President Obama's Take on H.R. 3438
03.11.2010	Rep. Issa’s transparency and self-imposed moratorium on Earmarks catching on in House WASHINGTON. D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa issued the following statement on the decision of House Republicans to forbid Republican Members from making earmark requests: “For four years I have fought to fix a broken and corrupted appropriations earmark process. Today’s decision to forgo all earmark requests delivers a real step toward reform and fiscal restraint by House Republicans. However, there is still a need for reform that must come from those who control Congress. The American people will be ill-served if Speaker Nancy Pelosi and House Democrats continue business as usual and refuse to join Republicans in banning earmarks until a broken system is fixed.” On April 19, 2006, Rep. Darrell Issa became one of the first Members of Congress to publicly post all his appropriations project requests on his website in an effort to increase transparency – the idea has been something that President Obama has since advocated. On January 25, 2008, Rep. Issa cited the failure of Congress to rein-in earmarking in his decision to unilaterally cease requests for for-profit entities. In March 2009, he pointed to the out-of-control deficit spending of the newly elected Obama Administration in his decision to forgo all earmark appropriation project requests. Earlier today, ten House Republican committee leaders, including Oversight and Government Reform Committee Ranking Member Darrell Issa, issued a joint statement urging passage of a moratorium on earmarks: “The American people are tired of out-of-control government spending, taxing, and borrowing. To earn back their trust, we need to immediately cut off the earmarks that have given Washington a bad name. Partial solutions are not enough. An immediate earmark moratorium is the only way to wipe the slate clean and allow us to start getting spending under control.” The ban on earmarks approved today means that Republican House Members will honor a moratorium on making appropriations project requests for the coming fiscal year. ###
03.09.2010	D.C. children deserve better By Rep. Darrell IssaTuesday, March 9th, 2010 In 1954, a unanimous Supreme Court rendered its opinion in Brown v. Board of Education, effectively closing a tragic chapter in American public education that had confined disadvantaged minority students in substandard schools. Yet today—more than 50 years later—the Obama administration has erected new roadblocks on the path of equal opportunity paved by this landmark decision. The D.C. Opportunity Scholarship Program was launched in January 2004 with bipartisan support to give district schoolchildren the chance for a quality education rather than force them into classrooms known more for violent crime than academic achievement. According to recent test scores, two-thirds of children in the D.C. public school system lack basic reading proficiency, and a recent study of D.C. school violence found an astounding 846 incidences of violent crime, armed robbery and aggravated sexual assault in the past year. On the other hand, the Department of Education released last year an annual report of the program that demonstrated how scholarship recipients are statistically outperforming their public school counterparts in basic skills. But despite the program’s measured success, President Obama has effectively killed it. To the thousands of children who are trapped in dead-end D.C. schools, the “Yes We Can” president has defiantly said, “No You Can’t.” The reasons to continue funding the D.C. Opportunity Scholarship Program are convincing—just ask the children who receive them, their parents, members of the D.C. State Board of Education, the U.S. Supreme Court who affirmed the constitutionality of such programs and the independent board appointed by Congress to oversee them. First, the program worked. Since 2004, more than 3,000 underprivileged students received the opportunity to pursue their dream of a better education. When asked why they wanted their children to attend private schools of their choice, parents cited safety and higher academic standards as primary factors. A recent study by The Heritage Foundation found that when scholarship recipients are given the chance to learn in safer schools, they achieve higher test scores. Second, the scholarships served to mitigate the many cultural and economic pressures that keep the majority of disadvantaged students in failing public schools. It’s true that public education in America needs comprehensive reform, but there is no reason why deserving children in the worst schools should continue to suffer while President Obama dreams up other ways to solve the systemic problems. Third, the bipartisan support that the program has received demonstrates its popular appeal. Senators from Joseph Lieberman (I-Conn.) to Diane Feinstein (D-Calif.) to Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) and George Voinovich (R-Ohio) are standing together for the program’s reauthorization. Former D.C. Mayor Anthony Williams called the program “a lifeline to hope for thousands of families,” and the head of Sidwell Friends—the private school where President Obama sends his daughters—has urged Congress to “keep the windows open…and unlock even more.” Surely the president is willing to give these voices as much consideration as he does the powerful teachers’ unions who vehemently oppose school choice. It is troubling that the Obama administration pushed so hard to end a program that cost a meager $13 million to benefit thousands of poor children. It is appalling that he was willing to do so while dumping hundreds of billions of dollars into failing insurance giants, bankrupt auto manufacturers and the government-backed mortgage lenders who caused the current economic crisis, all the while driving our federal budget to the highest deficits in history. One wonders where, exactly, this president’s priorities lie. Justice Clarence Thomas has rightly noted that “the failure to provide education to poor urban children perpetuates a vicious cycle of poverty, dependence, criminality, and alienation that continues for the rest of their lives.” With this in mind, Congress should reauthorize the D.C. Opportunity Scholarship Program and prudently invest taxpayer dollars in the promise of quality education for America’s children. Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) is ranking member on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. ###
03.03.2010	WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) sent a letter today to Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood urging him to begin the process of identifying an “industry-wide solution” to address unintended acceleration. “Per our conversation about the need to implement overlapping safety systems to protect Americans from automotive failures including incidents of unintended acceleration, I urge you to begin consultations with auto safety experts, including representatives from the Society of Automotive Engineers, about the most appropriate way to implement industry-wide standards,” Issa wrote to Sec. LaHood. “Such consultations should shed light on the most productive way forward – whether through voluntary implementation, regulation, or legislation.” In preparation for efforts to address these problems, Issa is requesting that NHTSA respond to the following questions related to possible industry wide standard or regulation for brake override technology: Please identify the automobile manufacturers who would have the current technological capacity to install brake override systems on all of their vehicles starting in 2011. Has NHTSA or the Department of Transportation conducted any analysis of the economic impact of such standards or regulations? If NHTSA or the Department of Transportation pursued these standards or regulations, what economic analysis would be conducted prior to issuing the standard or regulation? Has the Department or NHTSA conducted any analysis of SUA events in other manufacturers? If so, please provide the Committee with any analysis or data relating to SUA events in other manufacturers. Does the Department believe that overlapping electronic safety systems, such as a brake override, would have a significant impact on safety? What percentage of manufacturers and vehicles would remain unaffected by new regulations or standards based on their current design? Issa concluded, “The Committee understands that a manufacturer cannot guarantee a vehicle will never experience unintended acceleration; however, it is our understanding that a brake override system or similar fail-safe could play an important role in limiting the number of these incidents. Accordingly, the remedy of a brake override system should not be limited to Toyota products alone – an industry-wide solution is necessary.” ###
02.26.2010	WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement regarding today’s hearings in which the Committee heard testimony from Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and Toyota CEO and President Akio Toyoda: “The American people today received a commitment from both Toyota and the government that from this point forward will be the standard from which industry and regulators are measured against. If this hearing and our investigation results in regulators and industry establishing a higher standard for diligence and transparency that would not have existed otherwise – we have done our job. We will continue to examine what wrong and why, how industry follows through with the their commitment to be transparent and how government regulators leverage existing resources and authority to do a better job of keeping America’s drivers safer.” ###
02.16.2010	WASHINGTON. D.C. – One week prior to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform’s hearing, “Toyota Gas Pedals: Is the Public at Risk?” the Committee’s Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-Vista), will be visiting the Toyota Carlsbad Parts and Service Center to receive a firsthand account of how local dealerships are addressing the challenges and concerns of San Diego’s Toyota owners in wake Toyota’s recent recalls. “As Congress continues to investigate and evaluate how both industry and regulators have responded to consumer concerns related to vehicle malfunctions, I want to get a firsthand account of how local dealerships are responding to the growing amount of consumers who have questions about the safety of their vehicles,” Issa said. “Whether it is a microprocessor engineer or the top executive, it is essential that we pursue every available information resource so we can be better informed heading into next week’s hearing. I want a clear picture about what is being done to ensure the safety of not just Toyota owners, but of every driver of any vehicle in America.” WHO: Rep. Darrell Issa - Ranking Member, House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform WHERE: Toyota Carlsbad Parts and Service Center 6020 Avenida Encinas Carlsbad, CA 92011 WHEN: Wednesday, February 16, 2010 - 1:30 p.m. (EST) ###
02.02.2010	New Report Underscores Costs of Defensive Medicine WASHINGTON. D.C. House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform released a report today entitled: The Failure to Address the Costs of Defensive Medicine in Health Care Legislation that highlights how defensive medicine contributes to the “high cost of health care” and drives up insurance premiums. “Last week during his State of the Union Address and speaking at the House Republican retreat, President Obama underscored the need for Republicans to be open to all ideas and made an appeal to not give up on health care reform legislation,” Issa said. “I agree that the election of one Senator should not excuse our efforts to reform our nation’s health care system, however, that effort must include legitimate tort reform. When HHS is telling me that malpractice reform is not a ‘priority’ of this Administration, I have to question the sincerity of the President’s commitment to working with Congressional Republicans on a bipartisan basis.” From Issa's Report: "Committee staff inquired of HHS whether they had an updated figure, but staff was told by personnel in the Office of the Assistant Secretary Planning and Evaluation that the report in question involved medical malpractice litigation which “is not a priority with this Administration [the Obama Administration]” so there is no further information on the topic..." President Obama to Joint Session of Congress on September 9, 2009: "So I'm proposing that we move forward on a range of ideas about how to put patient safety first and let doctors focus on practicing medicine. I know that the Bush administration considered authorizing demonstration projects in individual states to test these ideas. I think it's a good idea, and I'm directing my Secretary of Health and Human Services to move forward on this initiative today." “This report highlights the significant impact on health care costs that defensive medicine creates and legitimate reform cannot be achieved if policymakers ignore the costs resulting from excessive litigation. Of course, the only that can happen is if Congress is willing to stand up to the trial lawyers lobby and embrace tough tort reform proposals to try and help revive and build bipartisan support for health care reform,” said Issa. “It's easy to say the right thing, but by embracing the findings of this report and supporting legitimate tort reform that doesn't penalize states like CA and TX who already have some sort of liability reform will be a good barometer of how sincere the call for bipartisanship truly is.” ###
01.24.2010	Devaney Letter to Rep. Issa: Recovery.gov Giving Up on Displaying ‘Created or Saved’ Count – Will Focus Instead on Jobs Paid for by Taxpayers WASHINGTON D.C. – Oversight and Government Reform Committee Ranking Member Darrell Issa today released a letter from Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board Chairman Earl Devaney announcing that Recovery.gov will now report jobs funded rather than “jobs created or saved” on the Administration’s official site counting jobs attributed to the stimulus. Explaining the change, Chairman Devaney wrote: "Finally, it is important to note that, from an Inspector General’s perspective, the ability to audit jobs funded with Recovery Act money is considerably easier that auditing the more subjective ‘jobs created or saved.’ Recovery.gov will be changed to indicate that the jobs reported by recipients during this most recent reporting period reflect jobs that were funded by the Recovery Act between October 1 and December 31, 2009. We will also include information on Recovery.gov that will explain how job estimates were calculated in the first reporting period and how they were calculated in the second reporting period." Following this change in stimulus counting, White House Advisors appeared confused and offered conflicting claims that the stimulus has done more than run up the deficit and trade private sector jobs for government jobs. Said White House Senior Advisor David Axelrod today on CNN’s State of the Union: “Now, the Recovery Act the president passed has created more than — or saved more than 2 million jobs. But against 7 million, you know, that — that is — it is cold comfort to those who still are looking.” Said White House Senior Advisor Valerie Jarrett today on NBC’s Meet the Press: “The Recovery Act saved thousands and thousands of jobs. There are schoolteachers and firemen and— and— teachers all across our country, policemen, who have jobs today because of that recovery act.” Said White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs today on Fox News Sunday: “Just last quarter, we finally saw the first positive economic job growth in more than a year. Largely as a result of the recovery plan that's put money back into our economy that saved or created 1.5 million jobs.” Said Rep. Issa in response: “Even though the unemployment rate is 10%, over 2.8 million Americans have lost their job since passage of the stimulus, and the stimulus watchdog has given up on trying to count jobs ‘created or saved,’ the White House continues to press claims about the impact of the stimulus that are at odds with reality. These senior advisors wrongly push the discredited economic theory that government can replace the role of small business in creating new jobs. To stop job losses, this Administration needs to stop the threat of policies like a national energy tax and government health care take over that scare private sector employers away from expanding their businesses and hiring new employees.” Click here to read Chairman Earl Devaney’s January 20 letter to Rep. Darrell Issa. Click here to read Rep. Issa’s January 8 letter to Chairman Devaney. Click here to read Rep. Issa and House Republican Leader John Boehner’s November 13 request to drop the problematic “Created or Saved” metric. ###
01.13.2010	WASHINGTON. D.C. - Rep. Darrell Issa has sent a letter to House Democratic health care bill negotiators urging them to scrap the existing health care takeover proposal and substitute H.R. 3438, the “Access to Insurance for All Americans Act,” a proposal which would offer all Americans the opportunity to obtain the same health care choices that members of Congress have. The letter from Rep. Issa advocating an alternative idea he introduced explains: “The public overwhelmingly supports this proposal. A September 2009 Rasmussen public opinion poll found 78% of U.S. voters believe all Americans should ‘be allowed to purchase the same health insurance plan that members of Congress use.’” The letter notes that while the public supports the idea of giving Americans access to the same private health care plans available to Members of Congress, the majority of Americans oppose the existing reform bills passed by the House and Senate. Prominent Democrats have publically supported the approach taken by Rep. Issa’s bill to give Americans access to the same benefits enjoyed by Members of Congress. The late Sen. Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.), addressing his party’s 1980 convention, stated: “I say it again, as I have said before, if health insurance is good enough for the president, the vice president, and the Congress of the United States, then it is good enough for all of you and for every family in America.” Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, then running for the Democratic nomination, told Chris Wallace in a 2007 “FOX News Sunday” interview that if she was elected every American would “have the same choices that are available to members of Congress, because we will open up the plan that members of Congress have.” During the 2008 presidential debate at Hofstra University, President Barack Obama promised to provide every American with “the option of buying into the same kind of federal pool that both Sen. [John] McCain (R-Ariz.) and I enjoy as federal employees.” Click here to read Rep. Issa’s letter. Click here to read more about Rep. Issa’s alternative proposal.
12.22.2009	Bill will help Aid Military Families Following Loss WASHINGTON. D.C. - Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) recently introduced H.R. 4350, the "Fallen Heroes Family Act of 2009." Each year a number of military families who have lost a loved one face unnecessary difficulties and hardship when trying to bring a surviving parent legally to the United States to raise the U.S. service member’s child. Recently, the task has been accomplished through the difficult process of private bills in Congress. "Families of fallen soldiers currently face an arduous process to get foreign parents into the U.S. and they were always considered on a case-by-case basis," Issa said. "The Fallen Heroes Family Act will enact a permanent change to current U.S. immigration law so that the children of our military families put in this situation can receive help from grandparents." The Fallen Heroes Family Act would grant temporary nonimmigrant status to a foreign national parent or permanent guardian of a U.S. Citizen child born outside of the United States when the deceased parent was an active-duty service member of the U.S. Military. The act only applies to active-duty service members of the United States Military who died after September 11, 2001. Upon reaching the age of 21, the U.S. Citizen child may sponsor his or her surviving parent for U.S. citizenship. The Fallen Heroes Family Act is cosponsored by the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Rep. Edolphus Towns (D-NY) and Ranking Member Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA); House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Rep. Chairman Silvestre Reyes (D-TX) and Ranking Member Rep. Pete Hoekstra (R-MI); and House Committee on Armed Services Chairman Rep. Ike Skelton (D-MO) and Ranking Member Rep. Buck McKeon (R-CA). ###
12.15.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (CA-49) announced the launch of a new website for California’s 49th Congressional District: http://issa.house.gov. “This website is the flagship of my continued online outreach to the people of the 49th Congressional district,” said Rep. Issa. “Whether it’s a question about where I stand on healthcare reform, a visitor to Washington seeking a tour of the Capitol, solving a problem with a Federal agency or a desire to follow me on Twitter, issa.house.gov is a fast and easy way to seek help and get information. It furthers my goal of putting my work in Congress in a user friendly format at the finger tips of those I represent.” To create greater transparency and permit visitors to follow Rep. Issa’s oversight and investigative work, the new website includes: An online copy of Rep. Issa’s current official personal financial disclosure statement. All appropriations project requests made by Rep. Issa since 2006. (In March 2009, Rep. Issa suspended all appropriations project requests.) An interactive video catalog displaying Rep. Issa’s most recent news interviews and other televised statements). What's currently being debated on the House floor. The latest vote results on major legislation. The website will also provide a framework for the organization and release of new information about the work of Rep. Issa, the House of Representatives, and the Federal government. Additionally, it will serve as an information hub for constituents seeking assistance with the Federal government. Some of these highlights include: A district services section where constituents can get help with a federal agency, request tours of the Capitol, White House, and Library of Congress, access federal grant information and find information about receiving a nomination for a U.S. Service Academy. A student center for learning learn about Congress and the Federal Government. Information on how to have a flag flown over the Capitol for special occasions. Constituents can also visit the website to sign-up for Rep. Issa’s e-newsletter and leave a comment on legislation currently pending before Congress. ###
12.10.2009	WASHINGTON D.C. – The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee today unanimously agreed to add H.R. 2392, the Issa-Towns “Government Information Transparency Act,” to legislation reauthorizing and improving the Federal Financial Assistance Management Improvement Act of 1999. Click here to watch Chairman Towns and Rep. Issa Discuss Transparency Bill The Government Information Transparency Act standardizes the collection, analysis, and dissemination of business information by federal agencies. It mandates that the government adopt a single data standard for business information and requires that the collected information be made readily available for public access. Federal agencies including the SEC and the FDIC are already using the eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) standard to make bank filings and public companies’ financial statements more transparent. The Issa-Towns amendments would help other federal agencies follow the SEC and FDIC’s lead. The Issa-Towns amendments also would bring transparency to federal grants by making grant filings – including applications for taxpayer money and follow-up reports on its use – fully public and searchable online. Citizens, applicants, and watchdog groups could automatically search filings from hundreds of separate federal grant programs, administered by more than two dozen agencies. For the first time, American taxpayers would be able to see for themselves the promises and projections that grantees make to the government in order to receive public money – and hold them directly accountable. ###
12.03.2009	WASHINGTON D.C. - Rep. Darrell Issa (CA-49), the Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Released the following statement on President Obama's surge strategy for Afghanistan: "President Obama unveiled a strategy this evening that gives our commanders on the ground only some of the troops and resources they have indicated are needed to complete the mission in Afghanistan. More importantly, his insistence on a timetable for leaving Afghanistan before his plan has even begun casts serious doubt about his commitment to a successful mission. The President simply cannot be an effective Commander-in-Chief while simultaneously altering the requests of military leaders to appease his political base and faulting the previous Administration for every important decision he has to make. "The desire to end the war as quickly as possible must not be placed ahead of the reason we went into Afghanistan in the first place: to deny terrorists a safe haven to train and launch attacks against American civilians." ###
11.27.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement regarding the opinion released today by the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel (OLC) that opens the door to allow the federal government to fund the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now (ACORN) for all contracts signed prior to the enactment of legislation Congress authorized and the President signed prohibiting federal funding of ACORN: “The bipartisan intent of Congress was clear – no more federal dollars should flow to ACORN. It is telling that this Administration continues to look for every excuse possible to circumvent the intent of Congress. Taxpayers should not have to continue subsidizing a criminal enterprise that helped Barack Obama get elected President. The politicization of the Justice Department to payback one of the President’s political allies is shameful and amounts to nothing more than old-fashioned cronyism.” Issa, also a member of the House Judiciary Committee is partnering with Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Lamar Smith (R-TX) on Tuesday to host a forum on ACORN at 2:30 p.m. in 2237 Rayburn. The Joint Judiciary-Oversight forum will include testimony from: Todd Rokita, Indiana Secretary of State David Caldwell, Louisiana Department of Justice Hans von Spakovsky, Senior Legal Fellow and Manager of the Civil Justice Reform Initiative, Center for Legal and Judicial Studies, The Heritage Foundation ###
11.19.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Appearing before the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform today at a hearing entitled: “Tracking the Money: How Recovery Act Recipients Account for their Use of Stimulus Dollars,” the Chairman of the Recovery Act Transparency and Accountability Board, Earl Devaney agreed with Ranking Member Darrell Issa’s (R-CA) statement that we do not have the “ability to calculate the full time jobs equivalent.” Click HERE to View the Issa-Devaney Exchange Transcript of Issa-Devaney Exchange: Issa: “Mr. Devaney, Secretary LaHood said, ‘We know for a fact that Recovery Act investments have created or saved more than 640,000 direct jobs so far. These are real, identifiable jobs directly funded by the Act.’ Can you support that?” Devaney: “I think, sir, it may be a fact that that’s what’s on my website, but that may not be the correct number.” Issa: “To characterize, he may be a little overzealous in saying real, identifiable, direct and, in fact, it’s just a damn estimate, isn’t it.” Devaney: “That’s what the recipients reported.” Issa: “I was reminded, by the way, that when a fish hits a wall he says damn. That’s what we’re talking about here. So going through a couple of slides, the White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs, on 10/30/2009, says, ‘The direct jobs in that is 640,329, referring to Recovery.gov.’ Same day, VP Biden’s chief economic adviser, ‘Those jobs accumulate to 650,000 jobs saved or created so far.’ Same day, VP Joe Biden, ‘When the data is posted later today, it will show that we have created or saved 640, 239 jobs from contracting authority with the federal government.’ Last slide, CNN Headline, “Stimulus Creates 640,000 jobs.’ Pull up the propaganda again. Is there any reason when you don’t know what the number really is that it’s just an estimate that, in fact, there’s about 60,000 jobs you pulled off and you didn’t even pull off the 26,000 jobs the University of California says it claims, which would be ½ of its employees would be saved from this act and they don’t have a net new hiring so you had to save existing employees, half of them, isn’t that just propaganda, isn’t it either misleading or designed to serve a political agenda when, in fact, it can’t be substantiated. It is not true. It is either mislead or designed to say we’re doing a great job when, in fact, we don’t know? Mr. Devaney, you’re the most honest man I know. Without a whole lot of in between, shouldn’t we be more conservative and say, ‘Look, this is what the reports are. We’re scrubbing it. This is a new system. It has its problems. We hope at least they’re reporting the dollars right and we have no idea whether those people have the ability to calculate the full time jobs equivalent but we’re going to get to the bottom of it. Wouldn’t that be a fairer way to put it?” Devaney: “I like that statement.” Issa: “Thank you Mr. Devaney.” CNN’s Kate Bolduan Reports on Recovery.Gov Hearing
10.30.2009	Tort Reform Denied, California Punished “Many in this chamber -- particularly on the Republican side of the aisle -- have long insisted that reforming our medical malpractice laws can help bring down the cost of health care…I know that the Bush administration considered authorizing demonstration projects in individual states to test these ideas. I think it's a good idea, and I'm directing my Secretary of Health and Human Services to move forward on this initiative today. – President Barack Obama, September 9, 2009, Address to Joint-Session of Congress WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement today after Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) and House Democrat Leaders unveiled H.R. 3962, a 1,990 page bill costing nearly $1 trillion that raises taxes, raises health care costs, punishes California, adds to our national debt while hurting America’s seniors, families and small businesses: “Despite months of townhalls in which millions of Americans voiced their concerns and opposition to a government-run forced public-option, Congressional Democrats have unveiled a bill that was crafted in secrecy that raises taxes, health care costs and fails to provide the quality and affordable coverage the American people have been promised for months. “Specifically, buried on page 1431 of the bill are provisions that encourage states to delay implementing meaningful tort reform and even goes so far as to punish states like California that have already enacted tort reform. “Rather than seizing an opportunity to produce a bipartisan health care bill that reduces costs, expands coverage and protects choice, Speaker Pelosi has unveiled a 2,000 page bill that grows the deficit and the bureaucracy instead of improving affordable health care coverage. “Rather than creating a form of nationalized, publicly managed health insurance, I have introduced an alternative (H.R. 3438) that would give the American people access to the selection of private plans that members of Congress choose from so we can safeguard patient choice and keep Washington bureaucrats out of the examination room.” Among the concerns raised by the 1,990 pages of H.R. 3962: The word “shall” 3,425 times (read: this is the government telling you to do something). On page 1431 of the bill we see that no real tort reform exists in the Pelosi bill. In fact, it gives states incentives to delay implementing reforms to curb frivolous lawsuits and drive down the cost of health care. It punishes states that have already enacted tort reform – like California and the landmark MICRA reforms – by making them ineligible to receive incentives. Creation of a government-run insurance program that could cause as many as 114 million Americans to lose their current coverage; Abolition of the private market for individual health insurance, forcing individuals to purchase coverage in a government-run Exchange; Stifling insurance regulations that would raise premiums and encourage employers to drop coverage; Trillions of dollars in new federal spending that will exacerbate the deficit and imperil the nation’s long-term fiscal solvency; Taxes on all Americans—individuals who purchase insurance, individuals who do not purchase insurance, and millions of small businesses—that will kill jobs and raise health care premiums; and Cuts to Medicare Advantage plans that will result in higher premiums and dropped coverage for more than 10 million seniors. ###
10.28.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. – In December of 2008, House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) launched an investigation into Countrywide Financial Corporation’s infamous VIP and Friends of Angelo Program that exposed the inner workings of Countrywide’s efforts to buy friends in critical government and industry positions affecting the company’s business interests. Late Friday evening, Issa and Committee Chairman Edolphus Towns (D-NY) reached an agreement to issue a subpoena to Bank of America for documents and records related to Countrywide’s VIP program. “Countrywide orchestrated a deliberate and calculated effort to buy powerful friends for the purpose of using these relationships to manipulate public policy and further their bottom line to the detriment to the American taxpayers,” said Issa. “The documents and records we have subpoenaed will expose the inner-workings of Countrywide and how this program came to be and was executed. We will uncover the true motive and intent behind Countrywide’s actions and learn the full size and scope of how this program influenced policymakers and their policy decisions. The fact of the matter is we cannot fully understand the failure of government if we do not expose the failure of government officials led by an attempt to bribe them.” The subpoena compels Bank of America to produce the following: All documents, including emails, for covered VIP borrowers, including those that were "Friends of Angelo" and those serviced by Branch 850, Countrywide's special VIP branch. All documents including emails between CW officials discussing the motive and intent of the VIP program. Documents showing the number of VIPs for each year 1996-2008; All telephone recordings for covered borrowers generated by the NICE telephone recording system, or other recording system between CW personnel and VIP borrowers. The term "covered borrowers" means at the time of the loan the borrower, or their spouse, was: an officer or employee of a federal agency; a Member or officer of the House; an employee of the House; an officer or employee of a GSE; or an officer or employee of a state or local government ###
10.20.2009	Issa joins Rep. Sensenbrenner in releasing report: The Politics of EPA's Endangerment Finding; Oversight GOP launches new web video: A Declaration of Energy Independence WASHINGTON, DC - Oversight and Government Reform Comcamittee Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming Ranking Member James Sensenbrenner (R-WI) today released a report on EPA efforts to regulate greenhouse gas emissions, which concludes that the Obama Administration, casting aside the dissenting opinions of career federal workers, "took office with a preexisting political agenda and then worked with singular focus to implement it." "Efforts by this Congress and the Administration on climate change are deeply flawed," said Rep Issa. "If they continue to advance, these reckless and job killing policies regulating and taxing energy will harm our economy while doing nothing to help our planet's environment. Emissions cuts and schemes that do not reduce emissions from countries like India and China will lead to the export of U.S. manufacturing jobs and even higher levels of greenhouse gas emissions." Added Issa, "EPA's rush to an endangerment finding has viewed dissenting opinions by career professionals as obstacles and hurdles. Those who have dared to dissent face retaliation in the media from anonymous voices and find their careers threatened." "This Administration promised a prominent place for science in its policy making, but when then most up-to-date science became inconvenient for the EPA, it simply ignored a report from its own staff that poked holes in the case for greenhouse gas regulations," said Rep. Sensenbrenner. "It seems that when the science doesn't support the Administration's agenda, its place is under the rug." The report on EPA's endangerment finding follows an extensive investigation by Republican staff of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee and the Select Committee on Global Warming that identifies numerous episodes pointing to an agenda and decisions that where politics, not science, was the driving force. Click here for a copy of the report: The Politics of EPA's Endangerment Finding Oversight and Government Reform Republicans, today, also launched a new web video: A Declaration of Energy Independence The video highlights prominent Democrats describing the dangers of the cap & trade energy tax in their own words and points Americans to a Republican alternative direction. Watch the video here.
09.17.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. - House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement regarding the 345-75-2 adoption of the Republican Motion to Recommit for H.R. 3221, which denies ALL Federal funding for ACORN: "Today's House vote to deny ACORN Federal funding is an important step that follows action by the Census Bureau and the U.S. Senate. The battle, however, to deny ACORN federal funding is not over until the President signs the bill into law. ACORN gave significant support to Democrats and Americans must remain vigilant to avoid backtracking or efforts to water down prohibitions denying Federal funds to this corrupt organization." ###
09.15.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) partnered with House Republican Leader John Boehner (R-OH) to sponsor legislation that would sever ties between the federal government and the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now (ACORN). At the same time, House Republicans are also sending a letter(hyperlink) to President Obama asking him to take action to end taxpayer funding of ACORN. “The fact that both the Census Bureau and the United States Senate have taken action to limit the federal government's involvement with ACORN highlights the legitimacy behind our calls for an investigation into ACORN's organizational structure and political activities,” Issa said. “Until the lingering questions surrounding ACORN's activities are answered, other federal agencies need to re-evaluate their relationship with ACORN and Congress should follow suit by passing legislation to terminate ACORN's access to federal dollars. The taxpayers should not be subsidizing ACORN's activities until a full investigation by Congress, the Justice Department or the IRS is conducted.” Ranking Member Issa released a report in July investigating ACORN's organizational structure - Read the report here. ###
09.11.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) today applauded U.S. Census Bureau Director Robert Groves’ decision to terminate its partnership with ACORN in conducting the 2010 Census. “ACORN had no business working on the Census. ACORN’s partisan election efforts and its involvement in criminal conduct rightly disqualified it from working on the non-partisan mission of the Census to accurately and honestly count the U.S. population,” said Rep. Issa. “Had ACORN been allowed to submit fraudulent information to the Census, it could have changed the boundaries of Congressional districts and altered Federal funding decisions to states and local communities. I applaud Census Bureau Director Robert Groves for making this independent decision following mounting evidence of wrongdoing by ACORN.” A copy of the letter from Census Director Robert Groves to ACORN President Maude Hurd is attached. An Oversight and Government Reform Committee Republican investigative report into ACORN that Ranking Member Issa shared with Director Groves in July is available here. ###
09.10.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement on President Barack Obama’s address to Congress on Health Care reform: “Up to this point, negotiations on health care reform have been driven by a left-wing push toward a public option and an expensive government health care takeover. The American people have rejected this partisan approach. “After tonight’s speech, and months of unmet promises about working with Republicans on health care, I’m not convinced that the President fully understands the concern Americans have about losing health care choice or their existing coverage. “The President and Democratic Congressional leaders need to hit the reset button and begin a bipartisan approach to reform that lowers health care costs and insures more Americans. “I’ve put forward a bill that would allow Americans to sign-up for the same private health care plans that are available to Members of Congress. I’m also ready to support individual solutions such as tort reform, insurance portability, giving Americans with pre-existing conditions affordable options to obtain coverage, and other ideas where I believe consensus could be achieved. If the President and Democratic leaders show they are ready to have a truly open and bipartisan approach to reform, I’m ready to work with them.” ###
09.01.2009	VISTA, CA - Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista) will host a Town Hall meeting on Wednesday evening at Rancho Buena Vista High School to discuss healthcare legislation under consideration by Congress and his proposal (H.R. 3438 (hyperlink)) to grant the American people access to the same health care benefit plans that Members of Congress and Federal Employees receive. Town Hall Discussion on Health Care Reform Wednesday, September 2ndDoors open at 6:30 P.M. (PST) Rancho Buena Vista High School1601 Longhorn Dr.Vista, CA ###
07.24.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. – An amendment introduced by Rep. Darrell Issa (CA), the Ranking Republican on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, today passed the House of Representatives as part of the FY 2010 Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations bill. The Issa Amendment prohibits the National Institutes of Health (NIH) from funding three wasteful foreign grants that fund studies of substance abuse and HIV risk reduction counseling for Thai and Chinese prostitutes and Russian alcoholics. “While the NIH is the ‘steward of medical and behavioral research’ for the United States, Congress needs to make sure the NIH becomes a better steward of American taxpayer money,” Issa said. “Though I support world-wide elimination of HIV, we don’t need $5 million in U.S. tax dollars flowing to study the behavior of Thai and Chinese sex workers. My amendment redirects the grant money to projects that actually add value to our public health.” The Issa Amendment prevents the NIH from spending taxpayer money on three wasteful research studies: Substance Abuse and HIV Risk among Thai sex workers; HIV and alcohol use risk reduction among female sex workers in China- Female Sex Workers will learn communication and behavioral skills to mitigate alcohol use and sexually risky behavior; HIV prevention in hospitalized Russian alcoholics. “It is my mission to hold the federal government accountable for its spending and the NIH is no exception, especially during the current economic crisis” Issa said. “These studies are clearly not high priorities for U.S. citizens, suffering from disease here at home, who could benefit from the $5 million the NIH plans to spend on foreign alcoholics and prostitutes. We need to get the NIH’s priorities in line with those of the American people.” ###
07.24.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. -House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) today released the following statement about his decision to vote against H.R. 2454, legislation that would create a national energy tax: "By establishing a tax on the use of energy, this bill will send American jobs to China and raise the price of gasoline and electricity for American families," said Rep. Issa. "President Obama has explained correctly that cap-and-trade will cause electricity rates to ‘skyrocket' and that increased costs to businesses will be passed on to consumers. This recession is an especially terrible time to raise the cost of energy when there are affordable solutions such as increasing the use of nuclear power to lower greenhouse gas emissions." Click here to watch President Obama explain how cap-and-trade will cause energy prices to skyrocket and costs will be passed on to consumers. ###
07.12.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) today presented for public comment draft legislation that would significantly increase the size of the Beauty Mountain and Agua Tibia Wilderness areas through new designations in over 20,000 acres in San Diego County. "This legislation will protect and preserve lands for use by current and future generations," said Rep. Issa. "I'm asking for the public to review and share their ideas so that this wilderness area is created in full consultation with those who will enjoy the benefits of protecting this land and live near it." The proposed Wilderness legislation: Includes special provisions encouraging the development of appropriate recreation facilities; Will protect critical wildlife habitat, scenery and sources of clean water from inappropriate industrial development; Permits efforts to prevent and suppress wildfires, immigration enforcement, search and rescue, and other important activities; and Protects private property rights. The Beauty Mountain Wilderness in Riverside County was established on March 30, 2009 when the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009 was signed into law. A wilderness is an area of public land that has been protected from development and vehicle use but where hiking, horseback riding, camping, hunting, firefighting and other activities are still allowed. This proposed legislation will add 13,635 acres of Beauty Mountain in San Diego County to the existing wilderness, thus making the Beauty Mountain Wilderness 29,256 acres in size. The legislation will also add 7,796 acres into the Agua Tibia Wilderness The comment period for Rep. Issa's Beauty Mountain Wilderness proposal will be open until Monday, August 17th. Comments on this legislation can be sent to beautymountain@mail.house.gov. A draft of the proposed wilderness legislation and maps of the proposed acreage for the Beauty Mountain and Agua Tibia wilderness are below. (Pics Below) ###
07.11.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. – With unemployment rate rising to 10.2 percent (crossing the double-digit threshold for the first time since 1983), representing a loss of 190,000 jobs, House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) questioned the sincerity of the Obama Administration and Congressional Democrats today who claim they are “saving or creating” jobs yet continue to advance policies that kill jobs, raise taxes, punish small businesses and adds to our national debt. H.R. 3962, a 1,990 page bill costing nearly $1 trillion that raises taxes, raises health care costs, punishes California and adds to our national debt while hurting America’s seniors, families and small businesses: “Despite months of townhalls in which millions of Americans voiced their concerns and opposition to a government-run forced public-option, Congressional Democrats are about to follow Barack Obama and Nancy Pelosi off the cliff to advance a bill that raises taxes, health care costs and fails to provide the quality and affordable coverage the American people have been promised for months,” Issa said. “House Democrats are in a position today to either take ownership of this job-killing, tax-rising bill that masquerades as legitimate health care reform or they can learn from states that have already gone down this road and failed – either way, the American people will ultimately hold them accountable because they know exactly who is responsible.” Consider This: Soon after implementation of Tennessee’s TennCare program, a single-payer public health option launched in 1994, many employers dropped their employees’ private coverage benefit. As a result, 45 percent of new TennCare enrollees came from private plans, not from the uninsured. Within four years of TennCare’s creation, more than one-sixth of the Tennessee population was enrolled in TennCare, expanding the state’s cost to nearly one-third of its entire revenue. Kentucky didn’t do much better with its mid-1990s reform attempt. The Bluegrass State set caps on insurance premiums, required a minimum level of coverage for all insurance packages sold in the state and implemented a community rating system that absorbed the cost of insuring patients with unhealthy habits into the general pool. Within three years of the first substantial reforms, 40 insurance companies left the state, leaving only two underwriters of individual private plans for more than 4 million people. Premiums skyrocketed for everybody, options decreased and a state with a 12 percent uninsured population ended up with 16 percent. The Empire State’s reform efforts have resulted in some of the highest costs in the nation. Each year, New York City residents pay an average of $9,000 for individual coverage and more than $26,000 for family coverage. This is in part because New York has 51 insurance mandates, some of which include podiatry coverage and hormone replacement therapy. Massachusetts is fighting out-of-control cost increases despite having established an “exchange” — or state health insurance connector — similar to the one now included in one version of the Senate health bill. As originally designed for Massachusetts, the insurance connector was to be a marketplace for competition, but because the state sets unreasonably high coverage standards, there are few options and little competition. All of which, mind you, results in higher prices and less access to quality medical care. Because of the influx of newly covered individuals in the state, wait times to visit primary-care physicians can take more than 100 days in some rural areas. As predicted by those who oppose expanded government involvement in health care, Massachusetts is experiencing some of the worst health care rationing in the country. ###
06.12.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Despite objective evidence that the President’s Economic Stimulus is failing to meet expectations for creating and protecting jobs, President Obama and other officials continue to claim that the Stimulus has “created or saved” 150,000 jobs and will create or save an additional 600,000 in the next 100 days. These claims create concern because they are contradicted by available information and the Administration, mysteriously, refuses to make public the formula used for calculations. In their letter to the President, six Republican leaders on the House Oversight Committee take specific issue with the “jobs saved” claim, which no government agency, private sector group, or research economist has any idea how to reliably calculate and track. “The creation of a metric that is not measurable allows your administration to advance job claims that are not subject to public scrutiny,” the Members write. “This clever creation is a convenient vehicle for avoiding accountability.” The letter asks for the President to provide a “full and complete explanation of the methodology and data used to compute your claim of 150,000 jobs created or saved to date, as well as your claim that 600,000 jobs will be created or saved this summer.” On January 10, 2009, the office of Vice President-Elect Joe Biden released a document, “The Job Impact of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan.” The Obama Administration predicted that without passage of the Economic Stimulus, the unemployment rate could reach 9.2% or 13.9 million jobs. By passing the Economic Stimulus proposal, the Administration claimed unemployment would not exceed 8%. Source: Office of the Vice President The current unemployment rate stands at 9.4% and rising – 14.5 million Americans are out of work. The economy has already lost 2.2 million more jobs than the Administration predicted would happen at the peak of unemployment levels after passage of the Stimulus. By any objective measure, the Stimulus has not protected jobs as the Administration predicted. “The Administration needs to show their work on how they’re arriving at numbers they’re using to tout the dubious success of the stimulus,” said Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) the Committee’s Ranking Member. “Vague descriptions aren’t enough. This President, who says he favors transparency should be transparent and disclose the formula being used to calculate these claims.” “When the stimulus was passed, the Administration said we’re going to create jobs and unemployment would reach a high of 8% and begin to come down,” said Rep. Jim Jordan (R-OH). “We all know that’s not the case. In fact, we’ve lost jobs – unemployment is 9.4%.” Jordan further noted that unemployment in his district is even higher than the national average. “California has more people out-of-work than many states,” said Rep. Brian Bilbray (R-CA). “The people of California expect accountability during this recession, and the president needs to live up to his promise of open and responsible government if he hopes to keep the trust of the people. In this tough economic time, transparency needs to be number one.” At a press conference yesterday, Rep. Jeff Flake (R-AZ) discussed several wasteful stimulus projects that have no recognizable benefit for the economy, Rep. Patrick McHenry (R-NC) explained that rising deficits are having a negative impact on affordable lending, and Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) expressed disappointment that recovery.gov does not contain information that can be used to verify the Administration’s job claims. Click here to read the letter sent to President Barack Obama. ###
06.11.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Reps Darrell Issa, Nick Rahall, and Charles Boustany— three members of congress who have travelled extensively throughout Lebanon and the Middle East—issued the following statement in regard to the parliamentary elections held in Lebanon on June 7, 2009: “We congratulate the Lebanese people for conducting a free and fair parliamentary election. The result of the election is a victory for the moderate voices within Lebanon who seek a sovereign, independent, secure, and prosperous nation with full control over all its territory. We extend our congratulations to Lebanese who voted for progress. “Now that the election is over, the hard work begins for the March 14 coalition of forming a new government that can work to breach the internal divisions within Lebanon. This new government will face some very difficult decisions in the weeks and months as it works to resolve its differences with the political opposition, which includes Hezbollah, and its neighbors in the region. “As Members of Congress, we will fully support and assist the new Lebanese government as it seeks to broaden its influence and expand the role of democratic institutions throughout the country. This support is essential to Lebanon’s future as a stable, democratic nation in the Middle East.” ###
06.05.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today, by unanimous voice vote, approved a resolution highlighting the successful efforts by the Border Patrol and Department of Justice to increase the rate of human smuggling prosecutions. “Federal prosecutions of human smugglers, along with other border crimes, have increased dramatically and created some needed accountability,” said Rep. Issa “There’s still much work to be done to crack down on human smuggling and create a zero tolerance policy for this crime, but we have made important strides.” H.Res. 14 reaffirms the House of Representatives’ “support for the role and importance of the Department of Homeland Security in combating human smuggling and trafficking in persons” and “commends the Department of Justice for increasing the rate of prosecutions against human smugglers and traffickers in persons.” Since 2004, Rep. Issa has led the charge in Congress to bring attention and needed resources to a failure by the Department of Justice to prosecute even repeat offenders and those who work in connection with organized criminal syndicates. Since this time, new prosecutorial resources and policies have been implemented and prosecutions of alien smuggling and other border crimes have increased dramatically. Please click here to view H.Res. 14 ###
05.22.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) announced Earl Fedrick Arquisola winner of the 2009 Congressional Art Competition for California's 49th District. Arquisola, an 18-year-old Elsinore High School senior submitted this year's winning art-work, "Motherly Care." "I am really proud of all the students for embracing their talent and participating in this year's competition," said Rep. Issa. "We have many young and gifted artists in our community and I congratulate Earl for winning this year's competition." Drawn using colored pencils, "Motherly Care" was inspired by a similar picture seen in a magazine. "I just saw this ad in a magazine and I really liked it, so I just started to draw," Arquisola said. When asked about the final product he said, "I loved it-it's the best I've ever done." Born in Olongapo City, Phillipines, Arquisola moved to the U.S. four and a half years ago. Set to graduate in June, Arquisola plans to attend San Jacinto Community College. He started drawing with pencil and paper just three years ago at the age of 15. A three-member panel of judges, made up of Vista High Art Teacher Carolyn Thom, Rancho Buena Vista High Art Teacher Cherie Freddie, and Mrs. Kathy Issa (Rep. Darrell Issa's wife), evaluated seventeen other finalists choosing Arquisola's "Motherly Care" for its compassionate depiction of a mother rocking her baby to sleep. Beginning June 24, 2009, Arquisola's artwork will be displayed in an eleven-month exhibit in a hallway entrance to the U.S. Capitol Building along with winners from other Congressional Districts. As the winner of the 2009 Congressional Art Competition, Arquisola receives three round trip tickets to Washington, D.C., an art workshop with professional artists and educators, and is invited to attend a reception at the U.S. Capitol. "The Congressional Art Competition is a rewarding experience for young artists and those of us who work in the U.S. Capitol and get to view the beautiful works on display for a year," Issa said. "I am very proud of all of our contestants and the collection of impressive artwork that our judges chose from this year." The art competition takes place every year and is open to all high school students in the 49th Congressional District. Students who wish to participate in next year's competition should contact Congressman Darrell Issa's District Office by calling (760) 599-5000. ###
05.22.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. - U.S. Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) has been appointed by the Speaker of the House to serve on the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, an independent U.S. Government agency created in 1976, also known as the Helsinki Commission. The Commission consists of nine members from the United States Senate, nine members from the U.S. House of Representatives, and one member each from the Departments of State, Defense, and Commerce. "I am honored to have been appointed to the Helsinki Commission. In this time of economic turmoil, clear communication among allies on global challenges is of tremendous importance. I look forward to working with the Commission and the OSCE." The Commission contributes to the formulation of U.S. policy on the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and takes part in its execution. The Commission convenes public hearings and briefings with expert witnesses on OSCE-related issues; issues public reports concerning implementation of OSCE commitments in participating States; publishes a monthly Digest with up-to-date information on OSCE developments and Commission activities; and organizes official delegations to participating States and OSCE meetings to address and assess democratic, economic, and human rights developments firsthand. For more information about the Helsinki Commission visit: https://www.csce.gov/ For information about the OSCE visit: https://www.osce.org/ ###
05.21.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) joined today with House Republican Leader John Boehner (R-OH) and Education & Labor Committee Ranking Member Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-CA) in introducing legislation to reauthorize the District of Columbia’s groundbreaking school choice program. Since 2004, this program has provided unprecedented educational opportunities for thousands of inner-city students who are poorly served by the D.C. public schools system. “To the thousands of low-income students who are trapped in dead-end DC schools, the ‘Yes We Can’ president has defiantly said, ‘No You Can’t.’ The reasons to continue funding the DC Opportunity Scholarship Program are convincing. It’s working for students and it’s wanted by parents,” Issa said. “This program should be judged on its merits, not political agendas. The President’s politically-motivated aversion to successful programs launched during the previous administration and his willingness to deliver a political victory to powerful unions and liberal interest groups is no reason to jeopardize the future of already disadvantaged D.C. schoolchildren.” Last month, an independent (hyperlink) report, sponsored by the Department of Education, evaluating the program’s success found that students who participated in the program performed at “statistically higher levels in reading equivalent to 3.1 months of additional learning.” “This report highlights the value of continuing to invest in providing expanded education opportunities to students who come from low-income families,” Issa said. “Choice of schools shouldn’t be limited to those who are fortunate enough to come from an affluent family – every child deserves the chance to unlock their limitless potential and this voucher program is central to that effort.” The program was authorized by Congress in 2004 to provide low-income residents, particularly those whose children attend failing public schools, with “expanded opportunities to attend higher performing schools in the District of Columbia.” The scholarship, worth up to $7,500, could be used to cover the costs of tuition, school fees, and transportation to a participating private school. Ninety-nine percent of scholarship recipients are black or Hispanic, and there are more than four applicants for each scholarship. President Obama last month slashed funding for the program; though later he offered a compromise to allow existing scholarship recipients time to finish an education at their current school of choice. A copy of the bill is available by clicking here. ###
05.19.2009	Decision Gives President Time to Re-think Early Announcement that Could Result in Housing Terrorists on Camp Pendleton, Miramar WASHINGTON. D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa today praised a decision by the U.S. Senate to eliminate $80 million requested by the Obama Administration to close the Guantanamo detention facility. “The U.S. Senate is adding a dose of common sense to the President’s plans for closing the Guantanamo prison,” said Issa. “This decision should come as a relief to military communities.” “On his first day in office, President Obama put in motion a half-baked plan to close the Guantanamo Bay prison that failed to specify where dangerous enemy combatants would be sent. To this day, the Administration has still not put forward a plan for where detainees will be held.” “The suggestion that dangerous detainees should be housed on U.S. military bases such as Camp Pendleton or Miramar has been met with rightful outrage in both Congress and the public. Although the President retains the power to close the Guantanamo Bay prison, his premature announcement and plan has failed win the support and confidence of Congress.” Rep. Issa represents the 49th Congressional District of California which includes Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton. Read Rep. Issa’s March op-ed opposing bringing detainees to the Unites States: Issa UT op-ed on Closing Guantanamo Prison Read the Politico’s story on the Senate decision. ###
05.15.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) introduced legislation today to implement real transparency that will allow government officials and the public to track the use of TARP funds and value toxic assets. “The technology exists to create real transparency that would allow us to track TARP dollars and value toxic assets but the Federal government is far behind the curve in implementing available solutions,” said Issa. “This legislation offers more than the promise of change and transparency, it is a substantive plan to implement it.” H.R. 2392, the Government Information Transparency Act, standardizes the collection, analysis, and dissemination of business information by federal agencies. It mandates the use of 21st century information technology under a single data standard known as eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) and requires that collected information be made readily available for public access to the extent permitted by law. XBRL is already in place as a reporting standard in approximately 40 countries around the world. Banks in the U.S. are currently required to disclose information to the FDIC in XBRL format. The SEC recently approved a final rule mandating the use of XBRL for all public company reporting, with some companies required to comply starting in June of 2009. Click here to read the legislation. ###
04.24.2009	MURRIETA, CA - The Agents and Staff of the Murrieta Border Patrol Station renamed their border patrol station today after Theodore L. Newton Jr. and George F. Azrak Border Patrol Station. The two Border Patrol Agents were kidnapped and later murdered in the line of duty on June 17, 1967. Legislation sponsored by Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49), H.R. 2728, to authorize the renaming of the station was signed into law last July by President Bush. "Border Patrol Agents Newton and Azrak selflessly gave their lives in the line of duty," Issa said. "Our nation's Border Patrol agents have a long history of working thanklessly to make our country safer. Every day they are on the frontlines of the effort to keep our country safe." The saga and sacrifice of these two slain agents is well-known by the Border Patrol. The Newton/Azrak Award, the Border Patrol's highest award for bravery, is named for them. The two agents were kidnapped from their post during a traffic check operation along Highway 19 near Oak Grove, California, in the early morning hours of June 17. The check point was located about 75 miles north of the Mexican border on a route known to have been used by illegal aliens and smugglers of aliens, narcotics, and contraband. The officers failed to report in following an all-night assignment at the road check, and a hurried search failed to reveal the whereabouts of the men and their two vehicles, a jeep and a Border Patrol sedan. The Service jeep was soon located about a mile from the check point where it had been driven through two stock fences and left under a tree in an open field. On June 19, the bodies of the two agents were found. A reconstruction of the crime indicated that Patrol Inspectors Newton and Azrak intercepted a vehicle in which over 800 pounds of marijuana were being transported. While checking this vehicle the officers were overpowered by four convicted felons, two of whom had been following the load of marijuana in a second vehicle. The officers were then taken to the mountain cabin where they were made to lie prone with their arms extended toward each other inside a shelf of an old stove. The right wrist of one man was handcuffed to the left wrist of the other, and vice versa. While incapacitated in this manner they were shot and killed. Autopsies performed revealed Patrol Inspector Newton had been shot once in the head while three shots were fired into Patrol Inspector Azrak, two in the head and one in the chest. Their bodies bore no marks to indicate there had been a struggle. All four killers were eventually caught and convicted. Three of them were paroled while a fourth, Florencio Mationg, continues to serve a life sentence. ###
04.23.2009	BROOKLYN, NY – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) today, at an Oversight and Government Reform Committee field hearing in Brooklyn, New York, again questioned the divide between President Barack Obama’s promises on tracking stimulus dollars and the actions of his Administration. “I have been disturbed by the guidance that the Administration is giving to federal agencies, which tells them they only have to follow the money they dole out as far as the state and municipal level,” said Issa in his opening statement. “After that, the money trail runs cold. Under the Administration’s guidance so far, there will be ZERO accountability for any contractors, lobbyists or special interests that get taxpayer money.” Guidance from the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) is inconsistent with the President’s commitment to the American people to account for every dollar of the stimulus. According to the OMB: Reporting requirements only apply to the prime non-Federal recipients of Federal funding, and the subawards (i.e., subgrants, subcontracts, etc.) made by these prime recipients. They do not require each subsequent subrecipient to also report. For instance, a grant could be given from the Federal government to State A, which then gives a subgrant to City B (within State A), which hires a contractor to construct a bridge, which then hires a subcontractor to supply the concrete. In this case, State A is the prime recipient, and would be required to report the subgrant to City B. However, City B does not have any specific reporting obligations, nor does the contractor or subcontractor for the purposes of reporting for the Recovery.gov website. While revised guidance issued on April 3, 2009, by the Administration has made some progress in requiring disclosure of contractor data from recipients of direct federal funding, the Administration remains unwilling to require disclosure of contractor and subcontractor data when stimulus money is funneled through states and localities. When stimulus funds “go from a Federal agency to a State, and then to a local government or other local organization,” the government will “not track funds to subsequent recipients beyond these local governments or other organizations,” according to the revised guidelines. “This failure to track stimulus spending where it will actually occur harms the oversight efforts of Congress, the Administration, and the American people,” said Issa. ###
04.03.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. -Every day, more and more Americans are using revolutionary communicating tools like Twitter, YouTube and Facebook. These platforms give Members of Congress the chance to connect with constituents of all ages in ways previously unimaginable. Since the advent of AIM (AOL Instant Message Service), new media has rapidly become part of America's daily discourse, strengthening friendships, families and businesses. Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) has pushed to utilize technologies to better communicate with all Americans, many of whom work with a computer each day, email from home or carry an Internet-enabled mobile device. "The American people, especially as the government spends at unprecedented levels, need to know how they are represented in Washington in order to hold their elected representatives accountable," said Rep. Issa who makes Twitter, YouTube and Facebook postings part of his daily communications work. "New media gives taxpayers an immediate and constant way to keep their government transparent, voice their opinions and hear from their representatives - fast." "The job of getting America moving again is the job of all Americans. Check out my sites and join in the conversation since Twitter, YouTube and Facebook help me better represent you." Visit Rep. Issa's Pages Below: https://www.youtube.com/user/RepDarrellIssa https://www.facebook.com/pages/DarrellIssa http://twitter.com/darrellissa ###
03.30.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Following President Barack Obama’s statement regarding the future solvency of the American Auto Industry, House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement praising the President’s approach to helping the auto industry: “President Obama has struck the right chord in seeking balance between supporting the American auto industry and calling for a much-needed restructuring of GM and Chrysler. The time to defer tough decisions has long since passed. We have now turned our focus to providing the proper framework for a significant and necessary re-organization to occur. “Failure for an American auto company like GM would mean a permanent loss of jobs and business in an industry where America can be competitive. We all recognize the role these companies play in the overall composition of our economy and we want them to succeed. It has become abundantly clear that in order to remain viable and competitive, these companies must re-organize, revamp and restructure.” ###
03.26.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Subcommittee on National Security and Foreign Affairs Ranking Member Jeff Flake (R-AZ) today, in a letter to National Security Advisor James Jones, sought clarification and a briefing on the Administration’s plans and defensive preparations in advance of North Korea’s anticipated missile test. The letter notes that statements expressed by U.S. military leaders, “appear out of sync with Administration views.” In their letter to Jones, Reps. Issa and Flake note repeated statements by uniformed leaders concerning the U.S. defensive capabilities and the need for preparations in advance of North Korea’s anticipated missile test. The letter follows reporting by Newsweek that an anonymous Obama Administration said Admiral Timothy Keating, the commander of U.S. Pacific Command, was “way out of line to suggest that Obama might use the system now to thwart North Korea, noting that the president has been trying delicately to engage Kim Jong Il's regime.” The letter asks Jones to respond if these discrepancies indicate that there is “little or no communication between senior military commanders and the White House on these serious matters” or if the Administration has decided against, “heeding advice from commanders on the ground” in the case of North Korea’s preparations for a missile launch. The full text of the letter is available here. ###
03.18.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement today calling on Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner to resign: "As one of the chief architects of the AIG bailout, Secretary Geithner was in a position to do what any lender of the last resort would do – negotiate concessions from AIG. Secretary Geithner either didn’t know about the bonuses, and was grossly negligent, or he did know and failed to bring this to the President’s attention. Either way, the end result has been a significant waste of taxpayer dollars and he should take immediate responsibility and resign." From Politico: "AIG disclosed its retention-bonus program more than a year ago, including bonuses directed to those handling the exotic derivatives that got the company and the country into this mess. The bonuses were essentially a nonissue when AIG got its initial bailout money, almost $150 billion under President Bush in the two months surrounding the presidential election. Joe Biden, then the vice presidential nominee, came out strongly against the bailout. Obama did not. Timothy Geithner, then at the New York branch of the Federal Reserve, was a huge proponent and architect of the AIG bailout. So if Obama had strong private opposition to the idea it did not affect his pick for the person who would oversee all bailouts. From Washington Post: "Attorneys working for the Fed had been examining the matter for months and determined that the retention payments couldn't be touched because AIG would face costly lawsuits and be subject to penalties from states and foreign governments. Administration officials said over the weekend that they agreed with that assessment. AIG disclosed its retention-payment program more than a year ago, and the amount of the bonuses -- more than $400 million for Financial Products alone -- had been widely reported. But as the payments were coming due in recent days, the White House began to express its indignation." ###
03.17.2009	Where was “Outrage” Two Weeks Ago? WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement today regarding AIG: "The egregious actions of AIG underscore the fact that even more taxpayer dollars are vulnerable to waste and abuse as a result of the Administration’s failure to properly track bailout and stimulus dollars. Where was this outrage and concern two weeks ago when AIG received another $30 billion? "You can get all the bonuses back and it won’t change the fact that there is no mechanism in place to prevent this from happening again. Democrats have it backwards – they wait for a problem to arise then, when the money is already spent, they decide to try and take action. Our outraged President and this Congress need to take a look in the mirror when looking for someone to blame in this debacle." ###
03.17.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) today, in a letter to President Barack Obama, requested that the Administration provide information about when senior administration and White House officials first became aware of imminent bonus payments to AIG executives. "Given your recent expressions of outrage about bonuses being paid to AIG executives, I am concerned that members of your Administration may not be bringing critical information to your attention in a timely manner," said the letter from Issa. "There is good reason to believe that White House officials have long known about impending bonus payments to AIG executives, even prior to the decision two weeks ago to approve a $30 billion bailout payment to AIG." The letter cites statements from White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs and a CBS News report indicating that the Administration had prior knowledge of AIG bonuses. The text of the letter to the President is below: March 17, 2009 The PresidentThe White House Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: The American people are rightly outraged over the news that AIG is paying $165 million in bonuses to its executives. This news is especially troubling given that AIG received another $30 billion in bailouts just two weeks ago. The egregious actions of AIG underscore the fact that even more taxpayer dollars are vulnerable to waste and abuse due to the unprecedented spending levels brought about by the Troubled Asset Relief Program and economic stimulus legislation. Given your recent expressions of outrage about bonuses being paid to AIG executives, I am concerned that members of your Administration may not be bringing critical information to your attention in a timely manner. There is good reason to believe that White House officials have long known about impending bonus payments to AIG executives, even prior to the decision two weeks ago to approve a $30 billion bailout payment to AIG. Two weeks ago, White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs expressed confidence that White House officials were fully aware of how AIG was using taxpayer funds. Recent news reports have also suggested that officials in your Administration may have more knowledge about the AIG bonus payments than has previously been disclosed. CBS News reports that an official in your Administration said that the AIG bonuses have "long been known about inside and outside AIG." I would appreciate if you would assist me in understanding the extent of the Administration’s knowledge of the bonuses being paid to AIG executives, including the earliest date at which senior Administration or White House officials became aware of the pending bonus payments to AIG employees and when this was first brought to your attention. I would appreciate it if you would respond no later than March 24, 2009. Sincerely, Darrell IssaRanking Member ###
03.10.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa today announced that he will not make appropriations project spending requests, also known as earmarks, for FY 2010. He cited President Barack Obama’s broken campaign promise to veto bills that do not bring earmarking down to 1994 levels and a 92% increase in spending over last year’s level as deciding factors in his decision. “President Obama’s spending priorities have more than tripled the federal budget deficit for Fiscal Year 2009 ballooning it to $1.7 trillion,” said Issa in a letter to local officials explaining his decision. “As a result, the state of our nation’s finances is dire, and our federal spending plan does not in any way bear an appropriate relationship to the state of our nation’s economy.” Rep. Issa, whose concerns about a corrupted process led him to lead an effort to increase transparency in the spending process by publicly disclosing all spending project requests, pointed to continuing criminal investigations into earmarking as evidence that Congress has not done enough to fix a broken appropriations process. “After eight years in office, it’s become to clear to me that projects are not judged on the merits but on the seniority and power of the requesting member or lobbyist,” said Issa. “Congress’ spending process is broken and out of control.” The decision to suspend earmark requests goes into effect immediately meaning that Rep. Issa will not submit projects at the end of this month for the FY 2010 budget cycle. “I am committed to providing the leadership necessary to reduce federal spending to sustainable levels,” Issa concluded in his letter to local officials. “Until that goal is realized, I will not be participating in the Congressional earmark process.” ###
02.13.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA), expressing disappointment in Congress’ failure to limit spending provisions to those that will create jobs and invigorate the economy, voted against the $790 billion economic stimulus package. “This stimulus package was crafted with lobbyists and special interests playing a much greater role than economists and bipartisanship,” said Issa. “President Obama’s early call for a bill focusing on building highways, bridges, water projects, as well as targeted tax cuts and enhanced benefits for Americans who lose their job was something I wanted to support. Unfortunately, Congress couldn’t control its runaway spending habits and the American people are stuck with a fiscally irresponsible and partisan bill.” “Many Americans are hurting, and government should lend a helping hand to those who fall on hard times. Runaway spending, however, will lead this country into a second Carter Administration where uncontrolled spending leads to high inflation and high interest rates. The benefits of this bill for the economy are questionable but the high long-term costs of the government legacy programs it contains are certain.” According to the Census Bureau, there are 116.8 million households in the U.S. A total cost of $1.1 trillion for the bill (cost of the bill plus at least $300 billion in debt service to pay for it) amounts to a per-family cost of at least $9,418 in new spending/debt. The Congressional Budget Office, in analyzing the long-term economic impact of the stimulus, has noted that the stimulus is likely “to reduce Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by between zero and 0.2 percent” in the years after 2014. The same CBO analysis indicates that the effect of this GDP reduction will be reflected in lower wages for workers. ###
02.12.2009	Washington, D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement regarding Senator Judd Gregg’s (R-NH) decision to withdraw his name from consideration to serve as the next Secretary of Commerce citing “irresolvable conflicts” on issues such as the stimulus package and the Census: “President Obama came to office on the promise of change and bipartisanship – yet as early opportunities have come to work with members of both parties, talk of bipartisanship remained just that – talk. As Senator Gregg alluded to in his statement, the Administration’s stimulus package was one reason for withdrawing his name from consideration. “The other reason was the injection of Chicago-style politics into the nonpartisan Census process. This was an outrageous and unprecedented attempt to politicize the Census. I commend Senator Gregg for his decision to stand by his principles and withdraw his name from consideration. Regardless of who the President nominates to serve as Secretary of Commerce, Republicans will continue to demand a fair Census that is not manipulated by White House political operatives. ###
01.26.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) today expressed concern regarding the exclusion of good government provisions in the proposed Pelosi-Obey stimulus package including a failure to prohibit use of economic stimulus funds for lobbying or political activities. “The economic stimulus should not be a bailout for lobbyists or a vehicle for political payback,” said Issa. “Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac spent more than $170 million on lobbying, while groups like ACORN use taxpayer funds to advance a partisan agenda. Already, this Congress is prepared to repeat the failed policies that created the financial crisis and the mismanaged Wall Street bailout. More and more, this ‘stimulus’ is looking like a mad rush to expand government and steer billions of dollars to political supporters.” Issa also expressed deep reservations regarding provisions in the stimulus waiving rules that would prevent waste, fraud, and abuse – including provisions that will expand housing funds available to organizations such as ACORN. “According to the Congressional Budget, less than half of the Democrat stimulus will be spent in the next two years, yet Speaker Pelosi appears eager to use an economic crisis as a guise to fast-track funds for political allies such as ACORN and MoveOn.org” added Issa. “This failure to prohibit the use of funds for lobbying or political purposes is outrageous.” Congressman Issa plans to offer an amendment to prevent the use of any stimulus funds for any lobbying or political activities.The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act: Fails to include a prohibition on use of economic stimulus funds for lobbying or political activities (Sec. 1106, p.7). A Government Accountability Report (GAO) noted, “The most common form of appropriation act restriction prohibits the use of funds for ‘publicity or propaganda’ (Principles of Federal Appropriations, Jan. 2004, p. 4-197).” No such restriction exists in this Act. Creates a multi-billion dollar housing slush fund that allows the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to waive rules on spending of funds. These provisions waive critical rules designed to prevent waste, fraud and abuse of taxpayer funds by organizations such as ACORN (Title XII p. 224-236). ACORN is a likely beneficiary of funds from the Neighborhood Stabilization Program and the Self-Help and Assisted Homeownership Opportunity Program (report language p. 73). The WWF received 13% of last year’s budget from government grants and contracts. It could benefit from money earmarked for “Science” from funds allocated to NASA (bill p. 60). MoveOn.org’s civic action committee could receive stimulus funds such as money earmarked for energy “activities” (bill p. 69). MoveOn.org lists one of its goals as to “reduce America’s dependence on oil.” The Sierra Club could take advantage of stimulus funds earmarked for “environmental health programs” (bill p.153). ###
01.22.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C.– U.S. Representative Darrell Issa (R-CA), Ranking Member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, House Judiciary Committee member Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), and U.S. Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA), Ranking Member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today introduced the House and Senate companion bills H.R. 628 and S. 299, legislation creating a pilot program to enhance the expertise of district court judges hearing patent cases. The legislation will establish a pilot project in at least five district courts where judges will have the choice of opting-in to the new program to hear patent cases. Each of the test courts will be assigned a clerk with expertise in patent law or with the technical issues arising in patent cases. The bills will also allocate funding to provide educational opportunities for judges who opt-in to the program. "Sen. Specter’s support for this legislation is a critical boost," said Rep. Issa who first introduced the bipartisan legislation with Rep. Schiff in 2006. "There is broad recognition that enhancing expertise on patents in Federal courts can create a more just and cost-effective venue for legal challenges." "This legislation will ensure that our nation’s judges are equipped to handle patent cases by providing them with training in this highly technical area of law," Senator Specter said. "This, in turn, will encourage innovation by addressing the rising burden that patent litigation imposes on our inventors and economy. The patent system is complex; the changes that we make to improve it will invariably be multifaceted. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate on this important legislation." "This legislation will raise the level of expertise in patent litigation, improve the reliability of patents and allow businesses to spend more time inventing and less time litigating," Rep. Schiff said. "This will reduce the cost to consumers of everything from promising new medicines to the latest cell phones." The core intent of the pilot program is to steer patent cases to judges that have the desire and aptitude to hear patent cases, while preserving the principle of random assignment to help avoid forum shopping. The pilot project will last no longer than 10 years, and studies will occur to determine the pilot project’s success. "Prior to coming to Congress, I was part of a number of patent suits. I was often struck by the fact that many district court judges either knew little of the applicable law, or did not understand the technology involved," said Issa. "Patent litigation often costs litigants over $10 million and can inject crippling uncertainty into a business. This legislation will help courts and help businesses and individual inventors who patent ideas." The Patent Pilot bill was originally introduced by Rep. Darrell Issa in 2006. It was passed by the House of Representatives in both the 109th and 110th Congresses but has not been approved in the Senate. ###
01.22.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. – The Government Accountability Office (GAO) and House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) and other House and Senate oversight leaders today unveiled the high-risk program list for 2009. The high-risk list identifies 30 programs that are highly susceptible to waste, fraud, or mismanagement and can serve as a blueprint for Congressional oversight of troubled federal programs in the 111th Congress. The new additions to the High-Risk List center on the outdated U.S. financial regulatory system, FDA oversight of medical products and EPA’s processes for assessing and controlling toxic chemicals. “Federal waste and troubled programs don’t leave office with an outgoing President,” Rep. Issa said. “If President Obama takes 30 minutes to review this report he won’t read about the failures of his three predecessors, but about the continuing failure of a non-partisan Federal bureaucracy that is resistant to reform.” Page six of the report underscores the important role that the Executive Branch must play in order to successfully address the problem programs highlighted in the report. “Perseverance by the executive branch is needed in implementing our recommended solutions for addressing these high-risk areas,” the report reads. “Twelve of the thirty programs on this 2009 High-Risk List have spanned both the Clinton and Bush Administrations – seven of these even date back to the first Bush Administration,” Rep. Issa noted. “Despite what some may say, the reality is the Democrats aren’t the enemy, neither are the Republicans, but rather the bureaucracy itself.” Modernizing the Outdated U.S. Financial Regulatory System As a result of significant market developments that, in recent decades, have outpaced a fragmented and outdated regulatory structure, significant reforms to the U.S. regulatory system are critically and urgently needed. The current regulatory approach has significant weaknesses that if not addressed will continue to expose the U.S. financial system to serious risks. Determining how to create and implement a regulatory system that reflects new market realities is a key step to reducing the likelihood that our nation will experience another financial crisis similar to the current one. Protecting Public Health through Enhanced Oversight of Medical Products Concerns have been expressed about FDA’s ongoing ability to fulfill its mission of ensuring the safety and efficacy of drugs, biologics, and medical devices. GAO’s work examining a variety of issues at FDA echoes the conclusions reached by others that the agency is facing significant challenges that compromise its ability to protect Americans from unsafe and ineffective products. FDA needs to, among other things, improve the data it uses to manage the foreign drug inspection program, conduct more inspections of foreign establishments, systematically prioritize and track promotional materials for review, and adopt management tools to ensure that drug sponsors comply with regulations on the presentation of clinical trial results. Transforming EPA’s Processes for Assessing and Controlling Toxic Chemicals EPA does not have sufficient chemical assessment information to determine whether it should establish controls to limit public exposure to many chemicals that may pose substantial health risks. Actions are needed to streamline and increase the transparency of the Integrated Risk Information System and to enhance EPA’s ability under the Toxic Substances Control Act to obtain health and safety information from the chemical industry. Without greater attention to EPA’s efforts to assess toxic chemicals, the nation lacks assurance that human health and the environment are adequately protected. Ranking Member Issa pledged to work with House Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Ed Towns to not only target and expose the waste, fraud and mismanagement outlined in the GAO report, but to hold all agencies accountable to a new standard of transparency and accountability. “The status quo standards have resulted in billions of dollars of loses that are being absorbed by the American taxpayers,” Rep. Issa said. “Working with Chairman Towns and President Obama, we can ensure that oversight and accountability is more than just an afterthought, but rather a permanent fixture in our government.” ###
01.21.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. –House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) today criticized the proposed Pelosi-Obey $825 billion economic “stimulus” package characterizing it as an $825 billion earmark that will do little but expand the federal government at the expense of prolonging the current economic recession. More than 40 percent of spending in the proposed bill is for expanding current programs or creating new ones. “The so-called ‘American Recovery and Reinvestment Act’ amounts to nothing more than an $825 billion earmark designed to expand government on the backs of the American taxpayers using money we do not have,” Rep. Issa said. “There is no guarantee of any short-term gain, but there is no question of the irreparable harm we can expect by saddling our children and grandchildren with trillions of dollars of debt.” According to a report released by the Congressional Budget Office, only seven percent of the $355 billion in discretionary spending included in the bill would be injected into the economy by the end of FY09. More than $200 billion of “stimulus” funds will be spent between FY2010 and FY 2019 – long after the recession is projected to be over. Section 1105 of the bill stipulates that funding that isn’t spent after two years can be “re-obligated” for other activities without Congressional approval, oversight or promise of public benefit. “Using the guise of an economic crisis as a front to expand existing government programs and create a bureaucratic slush fund is disturbing and completely unacceptable given the severity of our current economic crisis,” Rep. Issa said. “The argument that this bill is urgently needed to reinvigorate our economy has no credibility when you consider that 93 percent of the bill’s discretionary spending will be spent in years to come. It amounts to nothing more than a blank check for bureaucrats.” Furthermore, while billed as a transportation and infrastructure investment, a closer look at the Pelosi-Obey stimulus bill shows that only three percent of the $825 billion will go toward road and highway construction. “Democrats should be honest with the American people about how they intend to spend taxpayer dollars,” Rep. Issa added. “By the end of 2010, only 12 percent of the funds set aside for highway construction will be spent. What kind of job creation can we expect where the majority of funds set aside for public infrastructure aren’t spent for another two years? The only road being paved in this bill is the road to financial ruin.” ###
01.15.2009	WASHINGTON. D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) has re-introduced the Financial Oversight Commission Act, H.R. 74, which would create an independent and bipartisan panel to study and issue a report on the causes, handling, and way forward from the current financial crisis. This proposal comes as Congress considers releasing the remaining $350 billion of TARP funds. “Once again, the American people are being asked to foot a $350 billion bill without being told where their money went or what is going to be used for,” Rep. Issa said. “The Administration can’t even account for the money Congress already gave them – how can they expect Congress to just give them $350 billion more?”The “Financial Oversight Commission Act of 2009” establishes a national commission on the financial crisis to determine the causes of the breakdown of our financial system and make recommendations to Congress and the President. Modeled after the 9/11 Commission and the Iraq Study Group, the Financial Oversight Commission will examine and report on the facts and causes relating to the financial crisis of 2008. “Oversight and accountability needs to be more than just an afterthought when it comes to taxpayer dollars,” Rep. Issa said. “The ongoing policy of asking for money first and promising reform second is resulting in billions of dollars of loses that are being saddled on the backs of the American people.” Under the legislative proposal, the National Commission on the Financial Crisis shall: Be comprised of 10 members – not more than five from any political party – and appointed in the same manner as the 9/11 Commission. Have subpoena power and will conduct public hearings. Give the American people an objective and credible assessment, of the causes and handling of the financial crisis of 2008. In a report, make a full and complete accounting of the circumstances surrounding the crisis, the private sector and government role in causing the crisis, and the extent of the United States’ preparedness for, and immediate response to the crisis. The report shall offer conclusions, and recommendations for corrective measures that can be taken to prevent further economic breakdown. The commission shall build upon and examine the investigations of other entities, and avoid unnecessary duplication, by reviewing the findings, conclusions, and recommendations of such investigations. ###
01.14.2009	WASHINGTON . D.C. – House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) released the following statement today regarding his opposition to the Democrat-authored bill to expand the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) to insure adults, new immigrants, and families already covered by private health plans. “At a time when we can barely fund and sustain current enrollment levels, expanding eligibility to immigrants while eliminating the mandate to cover 95% of children under 200% of the poverty level threatens the original intent of the SCHIP program. The priority of SCHIP should always be to serve those children most in need of assistance – not subsidize those who already have access to private insurance. “State budgets nationwide are already overwhelmed and are unable to meet many of their funding commitments – expanding SCHIP eligibility will only compound their budget challenges while the poorest of children could lose access to their only source of health care.” ###
01.06.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On the first day of the 111th Congress, Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) reintroduced five legislative measures addressing critical issues facing the people of the 49th District including key water projects, border security, increased healthcare availability, and the economy. “Obtaining federal funding for critical investments in our region’s infrastructure as well as efforts to keep high paying jobs with good benefits here in the United States will remain a key focus of mine in the 111th Congress,” said Issa who was recently named Ranking Republican Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. Rep. Issa also plans to introduce other key bills in the next few weeks of the new Congress. Proposals introduced by Rep. Issa today include: Financial Oversight Commission Act of 2009, creates a 9/11 Commission style independent panel to investigate the causes of the current financial crisis and recommendations for moving forward. Santa Margarita Conjunctive Use Project, authorizes construction of facilities to provide water for irrigation, municipal, domestic, military, and other uses from the Santa Margarita River. Utilizes shared military and civilian water resources for benefits of each. Elsinore Valley Municipal Water District Wastewater and Recycled Water Facilities Act – Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior, in cooperation with the Elsinore Valley Municipal Water District, California, to participate in the design, planning, and construction of permanent facilities needed to establish recycled water distribution and wastewater treatment and reclamation facilities that will be used to treat wastewater and provide recycled water in the District. Health Care Incentive Act – provides an incentive for employers of certain wage employees to provide health insurance. Resolution Recognizing the importance of the border patrol in combating human smuggling. ###
12.23.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – A memo to Members of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee members by newly elected Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) reveals that a key witness cited in a report issued December 18, 2008, by outgoing Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Henry Waxman (D-CA), told the committee that "there was no discussion about the substance" of the yellowcake intelligence in the "very short phone call" with Dr. Rice on September 24, 2002. The investigation has looked at how a since disavowed claim that Iraq was seeking uranium yellowcake was included in the 2003 State of the Union address. Despite the witnesses’ testimony that the substance of the intelligence was never discussed, Chairman Waxman’s December 18 memo stated a “former Deputy Director of Intelligence at the CIA told the Committee that she personally warned Dr. Rice not to use the uranium claim.” Chairman Waxman’s report also did not disclose the fact that the former Deputy Director, Jamie Miscik, told the committee she did not discuss the substance of the intelligence in question and had "no reason to question" accounts which suggest that it was Dr. Rice who proposed deleting proposed sentences about yellowcake to obviate whatever "issue on the speech" had apparently been expressed by subordinates to each official. The Republican memo criticizes Chairman Waxman’s uranium probe as, “a selective investigation that has ignored critical evidence contradicting Chairman Waxman’s conclusions which, unfortunately, seemed preordained from the inquiry’s onset.” The Republican memo cites the distortions in Chairman Waxman’s December 18 report and his failure to examine evidence and follow-up on a communication from the CIA calling into question the truthfulness of Valerie Plame Wilson’s March 16, 2007, testimony in front of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee as examples of the probe’s flaws. The House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence has refused to share critical evidence requested by Republican Oversight and Government Reform Committee members – that Chairman Waxman has refused to join – related to the uranium probe. Despite the investigation by Chairman Waxman, no evidence has been obtained that contradicts the previous conclusion that all CIA Iraq analysts who had analyzed the Niger uranium reporting believed, until at least March 2003, that Iraq was seeking uranium from Africa. It has also found no evidence contradicting the conclusion of the Robb-Silberman Commission that “in no instance did political pressure cause them to skew or alter any of their analytical judgments.” Click here for a copy of the Republican Oversight and Government Reform Committee memo. ###
12.10.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C.– The House Republican Conference, today, voted to confirm Rep. Darrell Issa as the Ranking Republican Member for the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee (OGR) for the 111th Congress. Rep. Issa, who served as the Ranking Member of the Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Domestic Policy received broad backing from his Republican OGR colleagues in seeking the position of Ranking Member. As Ranking Member, Issa will lead Republicans on the House’s chief investigative committee. “I look forward to leading committee Republicans and working with my Democratic colleagues in helping the new Administration of President Barack Obama root out waste, fraud, and abuse in the Federal government,” said Issa. “As Americans across the political spectrum want return on their tax dollars – oversight can and should be bipartisan.” “While objective and bipartisan hearings are a priority for Republicans, the minority will not tolerate inappropriately partisan hearings or investigations,” added Issa. “We also stand ready to pro-actively probe any critical failures of government neglected by the Committee majority.” ###
11.19.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Rep. Darrell Issa and eight original Republican cosponsors today introduced legislation, H.R. 7275, to create an independent panel to study and issue a report on the causes, handling, and way forward from the current financial crisis. “Recent hearings held by House committees, while well intentioned, have largely been partisan, focusing on finding a fall guy rather than determining the root causes of the crisis,” wrote Issa in a recent letter to colleagues. There are many bad actors and causes of our financial crisis, from lax lending practices to insufficient regulatory scrutiny, but we in Congress simply do not have the expertise to gain a full understanding of the complexities surrounding the crisis. A Columbia University professor recently stated that any reform must begin with ‘a dispassionate and informed assessment of what went wrong.’” The “Financial Oversight Commission Act of 2008” establishes a national commission on the financial crisis to determine the causes of the breakdown of our financial system and make recommendations to Congress and the President. Modeled after the 9/11 Commission, the Financial Oversight Commission will examine and report on the facts and causes relating to the financial crisis of 2008. The Commission will be bipartisan and will be made up of 10 members, appointed by the President, House and Senate. The Commission will have one year to conduct investigations, make findings and report their recommendations to Congress and the President. As economic conditions and the financial sector itself are not static, the panel will continue its review, and in addition, will evaluate the actions of Congress and the Executive Branch in response to its recommendations. Rep. Issa has asked Democrats to support this proposal, but none have yet agreed to cosponsor. “It’s unfortunate that after 9/11 and setbacks in Iraq, a Republican Congress agreed to have examinations by objective and bipartisan commissions, but now that Democrats are in charge they’re cool to the idea of using bipartisan national commissions to find answers the public can trust. This legislation should be a bipartisan effort and I stand ready to work with my Democratic colleagues to make it a reality.” Click here for a copy of H.R. 7275 is attached. ###
11.13.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), in a letter sent today to Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, called on the Department of the Treasury to prevent funds intended to stimulate the U.S. economy from being used for foreign acquisitions. “The use of taxpayer funding for the acquisition of foreign entities is a crime against the American people that will further erode their faith in the federal government and our economic system,” wrote Issa who cited press reports that U.S. financial institutions receiving bailout funds are in the process of making loans to foreign companies for corporate acquisitions. Issa, a leading opponent of the Bailout Plan who had offered an amendment intended to prioritize bailout funds for U.S. financial institutions within the United States that was rejected by Democrats on the House Rules Committee, added that it makes little sense for U.S. taxpayer dollars to be used to stimulate foreign economies. “U.S. businesses are struggling to get credit and we’re seeing taxpayer funds that were supposed to be used to acquire troubled mortgage assets being used for purposes Congress never intended,” added Issa. “The rush to pass this legislation without proper hearings and an open debate has resulted in troubling flaws that are becoming more and more apparent. These aren’t private funds that companies should be free to use however they choose, but public dollars that were intended for limited purposes.” Click here for a copy of the letter to Paulson. ###
11.06.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa made the following statement on the decision of Rep. Roy Blunt not to seek reelection as Republican Whip: “Roy Blunt has capably served House Republicans as Whip. We will miss his steady leadership and owe him our gratitude for his years of commitment and sacrifice on behalf of our conference. Roy is a mentor and friend to me and many Republican members and we will continue to look to him as a voice of leadership. I look forward to working with him in the 111th Congress.” ###
11.05.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa, a senior Republican Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and the Ranking Member of the Domestic Policy Subcommittee, today made the following statement about his decision to seek the position of Ranking Member on the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. The Committee’s responsibilities in the 111th Congress will include conducting oversight over the new Obama Administration, the financial crisis, the 2010 census, and Federal procurement issues: “As a Subcommittee Chairman, a Subcommittee Ranking Member, and the 2008 NRCC Dinner Chair, I have made no secret of my desire to help Republicans win back the majority and to serve as Chairman of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee. As the next step to achieving these goals, my attention is now focused on securing the opportunity to serve as the Ranking Member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee in the 111th Congress. “Large majorities in Congress and the White House will soon propose more regulation, more government programs, more spending, and more taxes for America. Oversight and Government Reform Republicans will have to hold the line and remind this Congress that over 56 million Americans rejected Barack Obama’s agenda of big government, trillions in new spending, and higher taxes. “While Oversight and Government Reform Committee Republicans will miss the leadership and experience of members like Reps. Tom Davis and Chris Shays, this Committee will need a strong voice when hearings and investigations are one-sided, inappropriately partisan, or oblivious to government failures like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that embarrass the majority. I’ve spoken out and objected strongly when Democrats have acted inappropriately and will continue to do so as Ranking Member when Committee Democrats put partisan politics ahead of the Committee’s duties.” ###
10.28.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Ranking Member Tom Davis (R-VA) and Domestic Policy Subcommittee Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) today released a report examining challenges and opportunities for the United States amidst changing realities in the global energy economy and debate over climate change. The report affirms that any effective energy solution must take an “all-of-the-above” approach to different methods of achieving energy independence and also warns that energy security and global environmental challenges cannot be effectively addressed separately. Viewing the energy debate as a choice “between promoting increased domestic oil production vs. encouraging conversation and increasing renewable and alternative fuels” is “flat out wrong” concludes the report. “An energy policy that does not address all facets of energy production is a failure and threatens our economy, our national security, and the environment.” “We no longer can ignore the fact that energy policy is intertwined with security policy,” said Davis. “We can’t keep pumping money into the economies of countries dedicated to opposing our interests. For that matter, we can’t keep sending billions of dollars overseas every year when we have the means, the technology and the raw materials to alleviate much of our dependence on foreign energy right here at home.” “We cannot address the root of many national security concerns, economic troubles, or environmental threats without an effective energy strategy,” said Rep. Issa. “These issues have all become deeply intertwined – an effective energy policy cannot address just the cost of energy today.” Facts and findings in the report: Whatever one thinks of the science of climate change, with the adoption of the Bali Roadmap, the reality is that all Americans will be adjusting to a carbon constrained world. Energy policy should acknowledge and plan for this reality. Countries hostile to the United States are increasingly using energy as a strategic tool against U.S. interests. Manufacturing processes in China emit at least 300 percent more CO2 than similar processes in the U.S. – the United States continues to significantly raise the efficiency of using energy to create wealth, and the per capita use of energy in the U.S. has remained remarkably steady since the 1970s. An energy and environment policy that fails to account for competitiveness concerns will cause the U.S. manufacturing base to shift more American jobs overseas and could actually increase carbon emissions. Any meaningful international agreement to reduce carbon emissions must include the developing world since it is an essential part of the problem and the solution. Nuclear energy and coal must play a role in meeting our nation's future energy needs. Nuclear energy is an emission-free source of electricity. It also provides a roadmap to the hydrogen economy, which could reduce automobile emissions dramatically, if used to power the transportation network. Clean coal technology is critical for electricity generation and for the production of coal-to-liquid fuel. Coal presently accounts for more than half of electricity generation and cannot be replaced in the short or medium term. Conservation and demand-side management should be included in a sensible energy policy. The development of renewables such as wind, solar and geothermal must be pursued, but the reality is that it may take years before any substantial impact is felt. Biofuels, such as ethanol, hold limited promise and cellulosic ethanol, which is yet to be produced commercially, may have negative environmental consequences. For private business to invest the massive amounts of money necessary to bring more energy to market, government must foster a predictable and hospitable investment environment. Government can foster investment by sharing some of the risk, constructing a sensible regulatory scheme and minimizing litigation risk. The investment decisions made today will affect both our emissions profile and energy independence in the future. Even as the developing world is increasing energy consumption levels, the United States remains one of the most energy-efficient nations. It consumes 25 percent of the world's energy and produces 32.6 percent of the world's GDP. Click here for a copy of the Energy report distributed to Republican Members. ###
10.22.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), the Ranking Republican Member of the Domestic Policy Subcommittee of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and four Oversight and Government Reform Committee Republicans today held a press conference and unveiled legislation to create an independent panel modeled after the 9/11 Commission and Iraq Study Group to investigate the causes, handling, and way forward from the financial crisis of 2008. “Members of Congress played too large a role in crafting the regulatory scheme that set the stage for this crisis and have received too much money from Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and Wall Street to conduct an unbiased investigation of what happened,” said Issa. “The decision by House investigators to delay examination of the roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac until after the election – but instead focus on CEO pay – has undermined the credibility of the investigation. The American people deserve an unbiased and objective report on the causes and handling of this crisis that only an independent commission can provide.” “We are in the midst of an economic crisis,” said Rep. Chris Shays (R-CT). “We need an independent commission to ask the hard questions and examine Congress in a way that some members may be reluctant to do.” “People are tired of finger-pointing and we need to get to the root causes of this crisis,” said Rep. Brian Bilbray (R-CA). “The political process should not get into the way of transparency. This independent and bipartisan commission is about giving the American people the answers they deserve so we can ensure that the mistakes of the past are never repeated again. The Congress should pass this legislation during the upcoming lameduck session so that we can begin to get the answers the American people are demanding.” Under the legislative proposal unveiled today, the National Commission on the Financial Crisis shall: Examine and report on the facts and causes relating to the financial crisis and to ascertain, evaluate, and report on the evidence developed by all relevant governmental agencies as well as key private sector and non-profit organizations regarding the facts and circumstances surrounding the crisis. Give the American people an objective and credible assessment, of the causes and handling of the financial crisis of 2008 . As with the 9/11 Commission, this report will be free of accusations of political showmanship and a partisan slant that have tainted the current Congressional investigation. In a report, make a full and complete accounting of the circumstances surrounding the crisis, the private sector and government role in causing the crisis, and the extent of the United States’ preparedness for, and immediate response to the crisis. The report shall offer conclusions, and recommendations for corrective measures that can be taken to prevent further economic breakdown. Oversight and Government Reform Committee Ranking Member Tom Davis (R-VA) and Rep. Mark Souder (R-IN) also spoke at the press conference. Click here for a copy of the legislation. ###
10.03.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa today made the following statement following the House’s passage of the $700 Billion bailout: “The vote today to pass a Wall Street bailout package is a tragic defeat for taxpayers. We are being saddled with a $700 billion bill for risky decisions made by Wall Street financiers and a plan that has little chance of resolving the underlying problems in the financial markets. Taxpayers are outraged, and they should be. “The last two weeks have revealed to the American people the breadth of the failure on the part of federal regulators, the Bush Administration and Congressional leaders. With a manufactured sense of urgency they spread panic through the markets, shattered Americans confidence in the banking system, ignored the American people and shut out debate on alternatives that promised to address underlying problems in the credit markets at a far lower cost to taxpayers. “Secretary Paulson came to us without having exercised the considerable regulatory power at his disposal. He claimed he didn’t have enough tools in his toolbox, but he hadn’t used many of them. “A $700 billion payout to Wall Street will likely provide temporary relief to the credit markets. We have done little more today than kick the can down the street. Without further action by federal regulators and regulatory changes by Congress, Secretary Paulson or his successor will be back before Congress with a hand out asking for another, and probably larger, blank check. Before that time, I hope we can have the type of thoughtful, deliberate discussion this problem deserves. “While I am proud that House Republicans standing against a bad bill resulted in the removal of provisions for political groups like ACORN, housing slush funds, and the addition of enhanced FDIC protections for Main Street, I am disappointed that Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid’s response was to load the bill up with pork barrel spending to buy votes. This bill is bad for America.” ###
09.28.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Rep. Darrell Issa today took to the House floor and said of the announced compromise bailout proposal, "It does not do what the American people are asking to do, and that is protect their tax dollars." Rep. Issa, who has offered an alternative plan that uses private investments to fund a secured loan for struggling firms with failing mortgage assets, said that even after changes by Congressional negotiators, the Paulson plan is still deeply flawed at its core. “There’s been a lot of lip stick added, but this bailout is still a pig,” added Issa. “I have spoken with numerous experts, including some who I know from my career in the private sector,” said Issa. “The process in crafting this legislation has been deeply flawed and Congress needs to seek expertise beyond just the current leadership in the Department of the Treasury and the Federal Reserve. I’m not opposing this because I believe Congress should do nothing, but because I believe it needs to take time and get it right. Our economy faces serious challenges and buying Wall Street’s biggest mistakes won’t solve our problems, it will just get rid of our money." ###
09.27.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa, a businessman and entrepreneur before coming to Congress, today offered a new proposal to protect the economy without a taxpayer-funded bail out of Wall Street. Under Rep. Issa’s plan, private investors would provide the capital for a Rescue Fund through the purchase of government issued Guaranteed Recovery Bonds. The Rescue Fund would be managed by the Treasury Department and would offer troubled financial firms interest accruing loans based upon their holdings of at-risk mortgage assets. “My plan uses private investment and gives Wall Street the same liquidity as the Paulson plan and guarantees that investment firms don’t just dump rotting assets on taxpayers and go on to reap huge profits,” said Issa. Under the plan, Congress authorizes the Treasury to issue up to $700 billion dollars in unique callable T-Bills (Guaranteed Recovery Bonds) to be purchased by private investors to capitalize a Rescue Fund that will be managed by the Treasury Department. Financial institutions borrow from the fund at a rate that fully covers the interest paid to investors in the Recovery Bonds plus an insurance premium to protect taxpayers. Under the Issa plan, Financial institutions holding at-risk mortgage-backed securities would be able to borrow from the $700 billion rescue fund established through the special Guaranteed Recovery Bonds. The amount each firm could borrow would be set by the Treasury Department using Secretary Paulson’s mark-to-market to maturity valuation of the mortgage backed securities they hold. Financial institutions would continue to hold their mortgage assets and be responsible for liquidating them over time, so taxpayers would not be saddled with the liability or cost of disposing of troubled assets. As firms pay-back loans to Treasury, the revenue is used to pay-off the Guaranteed Recovery Bonds. The insurance premium paid by borrowers will protect taxpayers from default. A point by point summary of Rep. Issa’s proposal and a comparison with the Paulson plan can be found here. ###
09.23.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa, a founder and former CEO of a NASDAQ listed technology company, today made the following statement expressing concern and opposition about transferring Wall Street’s mistakes onto the back of taxpayers: “As disturbing as the volatility and turmoil on Wall Street are, the prospect of transferring trillions of dollars of risk and losses to taxpayers is appalling. How can any American look their neighbor in the eye and suggest that they should bear the losses for the mistakes and greed of America’s wealthiest financial firms? I am emphatically against it. “Accountability is a pillar of our free market economic system. The market rewards good business decisions and punishes bad ones. The course of action supported by the Administration and the Congressional leadership undermines this fundamental principle by bailing out those on Wall Street who made risky and foolhardy decisions by transferring their losses to taxpayers. Losses on Wall Street should be first and foremost the responsibility of the investors and creditors who engaged in these business transactions. “As a private citizen who was an entrepreneur and business owner before I came to Congress, I accepted the risks and benefitted from the rewards that resulted from my decisions. The barons of Wall Street should be held to the same standard as every small business owner and every citizen. These financiers knew the hazards they were exposing their firms and investors to when they made decisions to invest heavily in sub-prime mortgage backed securities, and did so in pursuit of greater profits. They called the tune, let them face the music. “The American economy has time and again weathered political shocks and financial hardships and proven itself resilient. I am confident that we will get through the current turmoil, overcome the losses now being incurred, and return to financial prosperity. Harnessing taxpayers with an additional trillion dollars in debt won’t advance that process. “The proper role of the Administration and the Congress at this time is to provide proper oversight of the Federal Reserve, Securities and Exchange Commission and other financial regulatory agencies; to determine the factors that led to current crisis; to make policy and regulatory changes to prevent a recurrence; and to investigate and prosecute civil and criminal wrongdoing in the marketplace that may have contributed to the financial meltdown we are witnessing.” ###
09.17.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa today issued the following statement on the National Capital Security and Safety Act which, once enacted, will strike down unconstitutional firearm restrictions: “Mr. Speaker, I am pleased that the House of Representatives has voted to hold the District of Columbia accountable for violating the civil rights of D.C. residents for decades. Making the District adhere to the Constitution now is better than waiting 180 days. Once the District comes into compliance with the Supreme Court decision, D.C. residents will finally be able to defend themselves against armed criminals. The District’s anti-gun law created a bastion for crime. Our action here today puts D.C. residents first and criminals second.” ###
09.16.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Congressman Darrell Issa today issued the following statement on H.R. 6899: “This do-nothing energy bill is a sham and a charade. Drilling provisions have been written so that new drilling won’t take place. This insincere bill does not expand nuclear power nor does it address the bureaucratic red tape which hampers citing renewable energy projects and the transmission lines that connect them to power grids. While Democrats have changed their rhetoric on energy, their actions have not changed. Speaker Pelosi continues to cynically block a vote on a true all-of-the-above energy bill that includes new drilling.” ###
09.16.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives last night approved legislation, H.R. 5167, by voice vote that protects the right of Americans tortured or held hostage by Saddam Hussein to obtain compensation from Iraqi assets of the former dictator and his cabal frozen in U.S. banks. “Let’s be clear, Americans tortured by Saddam Hussein deserve compensation just the same as other victims of torture,” said Rep. Darrell Issa. Following the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in 1990, Saddam Hussein ordered all American citizens in Iraqi-occupied territory to be taken hostage and used as pawns to deter the U.S. from taking military action to liberate Kuwait. Many of those Americans were rounded up and forcibly relocated to strategic sites, where they were detained as "human shields" and subjected to cruel, degrading and inhumane treatment. Others went into hiding or took refuge at diplomatic properties. All of the hostages lived each day in fear for their lives; many witnessed unimaginable atrocities; others were beaten, raped, tortured or subjected to mock executions. Additionally, seventeen American POW's were taken and, in clear contravention of the Geneva Convention, brutally tortured. While efforts to reach a negotiated settlement have taken place among U.S. officials, Iraqi officials, and American victims of torture, no agreement has been finalized. On July 30, 2008, the House Judiciary Committee unanimously adopted the Issa amendment to H.R. 5167. The Issa amendment plan is designed to ensure that other foreign nationals are not compensated by the Government of Iraq while Americans with similar claims are left behind. “This plan recognizes the difficulty of the rebuilding process in Iraq but also ensures we won’t have a situation in Iraq like we have had for World War II POWs who were brutalized by Japanese captors. The claims of these World War II vets have been wrongly subjugated to claims of individuals and companies from other countries and have still not been paid,” said Issa. Rep. Issa’s assistance on the Victims of Torture bill was sought after by Cliff Acree, an Oceanside resident and retired Marine pilot who was captured and tortured by Saddam Hussein’s regime in 1991. ###
09.10.2008	House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Abandoned Oversight of Troubled Agency WASHINGTON, D.C. – Darrell Issa today blasted House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Oversight and Government and Oversight Reform Committee Chairman Henry Waxman for terminating a Republican initiated Congressional investigation into failings at the Department of the Interior’s Minerals Management Service (MMS). Three reports issued today by the Inspector General of the Department of the Interior detailed ongoing criminal, ethical, and managerial mismanagement at MMS. “Democrats knew billions were being lost through mismanagement and wrongdoing yet did nothing. Looking into and fixing these problems would have meant highlighting the enormous revenues that domestic oil and natural gas production contributes to our treasury. This just didn’t fit into their anti-drilling campaign.” During the 109th Congress the full Government Reform Committee and the Subcommittee on Energy and Resources held five investigative hearings that uncovered billions of dollars in revenue lost due to the systemic corruption and mismanagement which permeated MMS during both the Clinton and Bush Administrations. During the investigation, real questions arose over the accuracy of oil and natural gas production reports from the oil and gas companies and royalties paid by those companies. Issa blasted Pelosi and Waxman for neglecting efforts to reform MMS and hold it accountable for the lapses and cover-ups that cost taxpayers. “We repeatedly asked Chairman Waxman to continue the investigation into why American taxpayers were not being paid billions in energy royalties they are rightfully owed,” Issa said. “Pelosi, Waxman and the Democrats generally love to bash big oil, but their reluctance to publicly address these multi-billion dollar losses, which date back to the Clinton Administration, is troubling.” “Oil and gas royalties are one of the largest sources of non-tax revenues for the federal government,” added Issa. “I expect the more the public hears that new domestic drilling will both lower gas prices and make substantial royalty payments to the Treasury, the more they will embrace it. This Congress has failed to make certain the American people are getting every cent of royalties due from oil and gas companies.” A letter from Rep. Darrell Issa and Oversight and Government Reform Committee Ranking Member Tom Davis to Chairman Henry Waxman and the DOI IG's report is attached. Letter_to_Waxman.pdf MMS_1.pdf MMS_2.pdf MMS_3.pdf MMS_4.pdf MMS_5.pdf ###
09.08.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa today said the single most important issue facing Congress this month is lifting the moratorium on drilling for oil and natural gas on federal lands. “We must open America’s domestic energy resources to drilling; we must pass the American Energy Act,” Issa said. “At the same time, we must also collect the royalties owed to the American people by oil and natural gas companies. Unfortunately, the Democrat led Congress has dropped the ball on all fronts.” Issa blasted Democrats and, in particular, House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Henry Waxman for failing to continue the Republican-led investigation of the Interior Department's Minerals Management Service (MMS). In 2006, Chairman Tom Davis and Issa conducted an in-depth investigation into the absence of royalty price thresholds in deepwater leases between MMS and oil and natural gas producing companies signed in 1998 and 1999. In 2006, the Government Accountability Office estimated that the lack of price thresholds had already cost the government $2 billion in foregone royalties, and may cost the taxpayers upwards of tens of billions of dollars over the life of the leases - and that was when the cost of oil was $66 per barrel – and this is just the tip of an iceberg that could be tens of billions more. “The Interior Department breached its fiduciary duty to the American people. It is charged with holding our natural resources in trust, but instead, it has squandered billions,” Issa said. Issa continued, “We have had two years of inaction by the Democrats over a government program that brings in tens of billions of dollars in revenue. We knew two years ago that the office was corrupted with severe ethical lapses and that it did not exercise accountability over revenues due to federal government. We knew then that MMS did not have the ability even to track how much oil was being produced or the revenues due the American taxpayer. The Democrats couldn't care less.” Issa argued, “The American people must get every dime that is due from the leases on federal government property but we have no assurance that is happening today because a corrupt and dysfunctional federal agency administers the program.” “Chairman Davis and I have continually pressed Mr. Waxman and other Democrats since they took over the Congress in 2007 to continue the investigation of MMS. We demanded both orally and in writing that he continue this investigation. Chairman Waxman and the Democratic leadership have paid nothing but lip service, including the issue in the Committee’s Oversight Plan, but taking no action to investigate what we know to be a dysfunctional organization with serious ethical problems.” An often overlooked fact is that the royalties from increased domestic production of oil and gas will bring a huge financial boon to the taxpayer. We are now transferring $700 billion a year overseas because of our imports of oil and gas. If we assume a 12 to 15 percent royalty by substituting domestic production for that $700 billion, we would accrue revenues to the United States upwards of $140 billion a year. That's not chump change. A copy of the May 17, 2007, letter Reps. Davis and Issa sent to Reps. Henry Waxman and Rep. Dennis Kucinich calling for a resumption of the MMS investigation is available here. ###
08.13.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Rep. Mark Souder (R-IN) have sent an official request for an Ethics Committee investigation into disturbing allegations, first reported in Conde Nast Portfolio, that Countrywide gave illegal gifts prohibited by House rules. “The serious and broad allegation that Members of Congress, Congressional staff, and other officials were given preferential treatment – in the form of a gift from a corporation when mortgage lender Countrywide gave them loans on preferential terms – needs to be investigated,” wrote Issa and Souder to Chairman Stephanie Tubbs Jones and Ranking Member Doc Hastings. The complaint to the Ethics Committee follows two requests by Reps. Issa and Souder for an Oversight and Government Reform Committee investigation to Chairman Henry Waxman. In his response, Waxman likened the controversy with Countrywide to the Jack Abramoff investigation but stated, “because the issues you raise would require the Committee to investigate the conduct of members, the precedents of the Committee indicate that the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct would be the appropriate venue for the issues you have raised.” Issa and Souder also responded directly to Chairman Waxman that they would forward his response to the Ethics Committee and that the precedent set by the Jack Abramoff investigation actually supports the committee conducting a probe of Countrywide VIP programs pertaining to the conduct of Franklin Raines, James Johnson, and others at Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and Administration officials. “The allegations of illegal gift giving swirling around the Country VIP program are broad and serious,” said Issa. “In a Congress that was supposed to emphasize ethics, it’s disappointing that no committee chairman seems to want to claim jurisdiction and investigate the nexus between the mortgage crisis and public officials who got too cozy with these lenders.” “Since the allegations surrounding the Friends of Angelo list first surfaced, I’ve been urging an investigation,” Souder said. “I’ve also introduced the Financial Disclosure and Integrity Act to urge transparency and ethics reform in this area” Copies of the letters to Reps. Stephanie Tubbs Jones, Doc Hastings, and Henry Waxman as well as the July 28 correspondence from Rep. Waxman are attached. Waxman_Countrywide.pdf Countrywide_Ethics.pdf Countrywide_Letter_from_Waxman.pdf ###
07.23.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Rep. Darrell Issa, today, made the following statement about his vote against H.R. 3221, legislation bailing out mortgage lenders: “I strongly oppose this taxpayer-funded bailout of the mortgage industry. This bill rewards Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and other firms that played key roles in the housing crisis. It will be paid for on the backs of millions of American taxpayers who pay their mortgages on-time, rent their residences, and played no role in creating this financial boondoggle. “In our free market system, when companies make risky business decisions they keep the profits when their judgment is right and they are expected to accept responsibility when they make poor business decisions. I voted no, today, because it’s wrong to have a massive taxpayer funded bailout of the lending industry that leaves stockholders fully intact and taxpayers empty-handed. “I recognize that both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have become cornerstones of our housing market and also see a legitimate need to help Americans, who have played by the rules and find themselves in need of temporary assistance, keep their home. My first and foremost concern in this housing crisis is protecting a system that provides the long-term availability and affordability of mortgage loans to Americans. By bailing out lenders who made bad business decisions, we’re setting a very bad and expensive precedent that will encourage future risky lending schemes, undermine confidence in future home loans, and make credit less affordable. We can use market forces and give regulators better tools to regulate the mortgage industry without writing such a massive check.” ###
07.14.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista), today, hailed President George W. Bush’s decision to lift the 1990 Executive Order that bars new drilling on much of America’s Outer Continental Shelf. “This decision is a step in the right direction for American consumers and our economy, but a defeat for the environmental lobby that has spent tens of millions of dollars in Washington over the years to place our nation’s energy reserves off-limits,” said Issa. “The decision between using America’s own energy reserves or to continuing to send our dollars to Venezuela and the Middle East now rests squarely on the shoulders of Nancy Pelosi and the rest of the Democratic Congressional leadership.” As Nancy Pelosi continues to thwart efforts to have an up or down vote on new domestic drilling, Rep. Issa continues to push for using America’s existing energy reserves and embracing and developing new energy and conservation technologies. “With energy prices this high, we’re past the point where we can afford to talk about Republican and Democrat answers to the energy crisis,” added Issa. “If it makes sense economically, and can be done safely, we ought to be doing it.” The removal of the executive order banning new drilling leaves only statutory barriers in the way of new offshore oil drilling. Rep. Issa has endorsed legislation that would lift Federal barriers to new drilling, but allow states to decide if drilling would be permitted within 50 miles of their coast. ###
06.26.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, at an Oversight and Government Reform Committee Hearing focusing on alleged malfeasance at a Texas Rural Electric Co-op, Rep. Darrell Issa warned the Committee that rising natural gas prices and other energy supply factors would likely lead to much higher electric bills for consumers this summer. “Consumers should expect significant hikes in their electricity bills this summer over what they paid a year ago due to the rising cost of natural gas on the global market and other cost factors,” said Issa citing a May report by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. “While bad actors in the energy industry need to be held legally accountable for malfeasance, I remain deeply concerned that this Committee, and the Congress, aren’t acting to address the nationwide rising cost of energy – why nuclear power plants aren’t being built, why ‘NIMBYism’ has stopped wind power projects and most importantly, why we are not drilling in American waters and Alaska and utilizing our rich domestic fuel resources to lower energy costs.” In May, the FERC warned that “wholesale electric prices are likely to be considerably higher than they were a year ago,” and pointed to forward market electricity price increases of 75% above last year’s level in Southern California as an example of rising costs. These are prices that large electricity buyers have already been paying sellers for prearranged deliveries this summer. The FERC also noted, “Natural gas is the most influential factor affecting electric power prices, because in the summer natural gas is on the margin more often and in more places than any other fuel.” A copy of the FERC report is available here. ###
06.26.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Rep. Darrell Issa, a member of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement following the Supreme Court’s 5-4 decision to uphold the rights of D.C. gun owners in the case of District of Columbia v. Heller: “Today’s ruling affirms that law-abiding Americans have a constitutional right to own firearms for self-defense,” said Issa. “The 1976 D.C. law which prohibited law abiding citizens from keeping handguns in their homes for self-defense infringed on a constitutional right and failed to get guns out of the hands of criminals in our nation’s capital,” said Issa. “This ruling reaffirms that cities across America can’t unconstitutionally restrict the rights of gun owners as a response to a failure to keep criminals locked-up and off our streets.” ###
06.13.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), today, issued the following statement on the passing of NBC News Washington Bureau Chief and Meet the Press Host Tim Russert: “America has lost one of its greatest journalists. For over two decades, Tim Russert earned our country’s trust and admiration for his tough, on-target questions that helped millions of Americans understand where decision makers stood on the most important political questions of our time. “Tim Russert was also a husband, father, and son. My thoughts and prayers are with his family, friends, and colleagues at NBC.” ###
06.11.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As the 2010 census rapidly approaches, Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) and 50 cosponsors have introduced a resolution expressing the sense of the House that, in accordance with Article I, Section 2 of the U.S. Constitution, that “in conducting the 2010 decennial census, the Secretary of Commerce should use all legal and reasonable means to count every person living in the United States, any territory or possession of the United States, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and all Federal civilian and military personnel serving abroad.” Issa introduced this resolution so that the House of Representatives can take a firm stand and demand that every American be counted in the census and that educated guesstimates of populations should not be used as a cheap substitute for an actual count. “We’ve seen time and again that the best polling in elections can be at odds with the final ballot results on Election Day. Likewise, we should not rely on anything less than an actual count of our population in the 2010 census,” said Rep. Issa. “The 2010 census will determine representation and influence Federal spending for an entire decade – getting this count right is a worthwhile investment for which there is no substitute.” According to the rules of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, which has jurisdiction over the census, 50 cosponsors qualifies this resolution, H.Res. 1262, for a committee mark-up. ###
06.03.2008	Issa says Committee is neglecting responsibility to investigate all relevant parties contributing to the subprime mortgage crisis. WASHINGTON, D.C. – One day before Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Henry Waxman is scheduled to convene a full committee hearing pairing longstanding Democrat angst over compensation for business executives with the subprime mortgage crisis, Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) said the committee was, yet again, failing to focus on its primary responsibility of investigating waste, fraud, and abuse in the federal government. “This hearing is a misguided attempt by Chairman Waxman to scapegoat a few wealthy individuals in a complex crisis where there’s plenty of blame to go around,” said Issa. “It is always easy to blame people with a lot of money.” “The Federal Government played a role in pushing lenders to make risky loans but instead of investigating misguided policies, Chairman Waxman is going to grind an old axe on an issue organized labor has pushed for years,” Issa predicted. “Mortgage lenders and others have lost billions of dollars and have every incentive to correct any and all mistakes that led to these losses. The Federal Government, however, has less of an incentive to correct misguided policies when the attention of the Chairman of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform is wandering elsewhere.” Issa cited three examples of government action that the Committee was neglecting to investigate: The Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 mandated that lender provide credit, including home ownership opportunities, to underserved populations. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York, in 2000, endorsed the securitization of subprime mortgages. Alan Greenspan, in 2004, strongly endorsed Adjustable Rate Mortgages as a way of making home ownership more broadly available. “This hearing is election-year politics,” said Issa. “It will not examine the substantive factors that contributed to the subprime mortgage crisis.” ###
05.29.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Seeking to eliminate the arbitrary Visa Lottery system that randomly awards visas to perspective immigrants without regard to job skill needs within the United States, Republican leaders on immigration policy, today, introduced legislation that would reallocate these 55,000 annual visas to holders of advanced degrees from American universities whose skills in the sciences, technology, engineering, or mathematics will benefit the national economy of the United States. Selected individuals would receive permanent residency status. “This is a step toward creating a rational immigration system that uses criteria intended to strengthen our economy for selecting visa recipients,” said Rep. Darrell Issa who is the grandson of immigrants. “America spends time and resources educating the brightest minds who come to our universities from abroad. In a global economy, if these educated individuals want the opportunity to become Americans, help our economy in key sectors, and be net contributors to our tax base we should afford them that opportunity.” “To remain competitive in a fast-paced, global economy, American businesses must be able to recruit and hire the best and brightest students from American universities. In high-tech industries, those students are often foreign,” said Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Lamar Smith. By reallocating 55,000 annual visas currently awarded at random to foreign students with degrees from American universities, this bill helps keep American businesses competitive globally without hurting the American worker.” “It is a serious national security threat to be handing out green cards randomly to foreign nationals," said Rep. Bob Goodlatte. "That is why I have introduced legislation for the past 5 years to eliminate the visa lottery program, and that is why I am joining this effort to eliminate the program and put the resulting green cards to a safer use that will actually contribute to our economy.” “A lottery is by its very nature a gamble—in this case a gamble on our national security,” said Rep. Elton Gallegly. “I applaud Representative Issa for his leadership in taking the gamble out of our visa system and replacing it with a criteria-based system that benefits the U.S. economy while celebrating America’s diversity.” This proposal will provide America with more skilled workers without increasing overall immigration levels. It will do this by ending the diversity visa lottery, under which tens of thousands of randomly selected alien applicants win green cards each year. There are various shortcomings and dangers posed by the visa lottery: The most significant danger posed by the program is the risk that the visa lottery can be used by aliens who pose a danger to the American people. The State Department’s Inspector General has testified that the lottery program “contains significant risks to national security from hostile intelligence officers, criminals, and terrorists attempting to use the program for entry into the United States as permanent residents.” This is mainly because winners of the lottery need have no ties whatsoever to America, neither family nor employment ties. The visa lottery is susceptible to fraud. In fact, some have argued, the very laxity of its structure invites fraudulent applications. The lottery fails to advance any of the primary goals of our immigration system, in that it does not serve any humanitarian benefit, to unite families, or to provide skilled workers for the American economy. When tens of millions of persons seek to come to America, it makes no sense to distribute precious visas by lottery. The bill also increases the number of immigrants visas – green cards – going to the “best and the brightest.” These workers will help American companies compete in the global economy. The bill will help ensure that we don’t educate foreign students in high-tech fields and then send them home to work for our international competitors. A copy of legislation introduced today by Reps. Darrell Issa (R-CA), Lamar Smith (R-TX), Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Elton Gallegly, Brian Bilbray (R-CA), Howard Coble (R-NC), and Tom Feeney (R-FL) is attached. ###
05.21.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Delara Chizari’s “On the Porch with Shahab” has been named the winner of the 2008 Congressional Art Competition for the 49th Congressional District. Chizari’s graphite drawing was selected for First Prize honors from a panel of judges who evaluated twenty-one entries. The three judge panel included Wildomar artist Ms. Susan Lovett, Lake Elsinore High School Art Teacher Ms. Betty Harrison, and Mrs. Kathy Issa – the wife of Rep. Issa. As the winner of the 2008 Congressional Art Competition, Delara’s work will hang for one year in the U.S. Capitol, beginning June 25, along with winners from other Congressional Districts. Delara will also receive three roundtrip airline tickets to Washington, D.C. “This year’s competition included a number of beautiful entries created by talented young artists,” said Rep. Issa. “Our judges could only choose one work to represent our community in the U.S. Capitol for a year, and I’m very proud of Delara’s drawing. The details and life of her work will be a beautiful addition to the Capitol.” Congressman Issa’s office participates in the Congressional Art Competition every year and invites high school students in the 49th District to enter their artwork in next year’s competition. For further information about next year’s competition, students should contact Congressman Darrell Issa’s District office. A picture of Delara Chizari’s “On the Porch with Shahab” is attached. ###
05.21.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, at an Oversight and Government Reform Committee Hearing on the EPA’s new Ozone Standards, Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) attempted to reiterate his oft repeated request that Chairman Henry Waxman (D-CA) allocate equal time for questions and answers among Democrat and Republican Members. In response to his request that the rights of the minority be respected, Chairman Waxman responded, "I will have you physically removed from this meeting if you don't stop." “Chairman Waxman’s threat to remove me because I, as the ranking Republican Member on the dais, continued to insist that he follow the rules about dividing speaking opportunities and time was arrogant and unprofessional,” said Issa. “His outburst and abuse of the rules detracted from the focus of the hearing. Chairman Waxman should follow the rules of his own committee and show more respect for the process and the institution.” See below to view a clip of Rep. Waxman’s outburst. ###
05.11.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa has signed a discharge petition to force a vote on legislation, H.R. 3089, opening the Alaskan Coastal Plain and Outer Continental Shelf for oil drilling. “It is outrageous that with gas approaching $5 gallon, Speaker Pelosi has not acted to unlock America’s domestic energy reserves,” said Rep. Darrell Issa. “We are paying a high price at the pump today for decades of bad policy decisions that have placed our own oil and gas resources off-limits,” said Issa. “Having a reliable domestic energy supply is essential to our national security and economic prosperity.” “America needs to become energy self-sufficient, that means new nuclear, oil, gas, hydro, wind, solar and geothermal production. If it makes sense economically, we ought to be doing it. It’s time to remove the artificial barriers to energy production that have given us $4.50 gas, higher electricity bills, and left us reliant on foreign oil.” H.R. 3089, the No More Excuses Energy Act would: Lift the Congressional moratoria on drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf, potentially providing 17 billion barrels of oil. Opens the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to responsible drilling, potentially producing nearly a million barrels per day for several decades. Encourages investment in a much-needed industrial base for building new nuclear power plants by reducing the tax burden on that industry. Boost alternative energy development by extending the Wind Production Tax Credit for 10 years. Rep. Issa has also cosponsored H.R. 6107 and H.R. 6108, bills that would, respectively, allow drilling on Alaska’s Coastal Plain and deep water drilling on the outer continental shelf. ###
04.30.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives, last night, passed legislation 291-117 that includes provisions authored by Rep. Darrell Issa to authorize the use of federal funds to construct a water pressurization system that will deliver water from Eastern Municipal Water District’s reclamation plants. When constructed, the project will provide greater local protection from drought and reduce the district’s need to import water. S. 2739, Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008, which passed through the Senate on April 10 contains the language of Rep. Issa’s H.R. 30. “The area that the Eastern Municipal Water District provides water for is one of the fastest growing in the country,” said Rep. Issa. “Riverside County is facing constantly increasing pressure to find new sustainable ways to meet the areas water supply needs and to accommodate future growth. I’m pleased that Congress has finally passed this project that will lead to an increased use of reclaimed water in Southern California where the threat of shortages and drought are almost always present.” H.R. 30, which was included in S. 2739, authorizes the appropriation of up to $12 million for the federal share of the project up to 25 percent of the total cost. The Bureau of Reclamation estimates that the project will cost $49 million and it expects the project to take 10 to 15 years to build. Rep. Issa, while pleased that the water pressurization system project will be authorized, voted against S. 2739 because the legislation combined contentious land restrictions with non-controversial projects like H.R. 30 and permanently blocks exploration for natural energy resources on millions of acres of federal land. ###
04.24.2008	Study faults methodology of Democratic Staff Report on Conflict of Interest Among Compensation Consultants for Executives WASHINGTON, D.C. – A study by academic researchers, “The Role and Effect of Compensation Consultants on CEO Pay,” found no substantial evidence that perceived conflicts of interest between firms and compensation consultants who advise on CEO pay is leading to excessive CEO payouts. “We are unable to find widespread evidence of more lucrative CEO pay packages for clients of conflicted consultants despite anecdotal evidence to the contrary,” stated the report. This review refutes conclusions put forth in a recent Oversight and Government Reform Committee Democratic staff report “Executive Pay: Conflicts of Interest Among Compensation Consultants,” which argued that such conflicts of interest were driving excessive compensation levels for corporate executives. Republican Members of the committee had been highly critical of the methodology and conclusions reached in the study done by Democrats. In an apparent attempt by Committee Democrats to shield their report from this peer review, the Committee refused the request of Mary Ellen Carter, an accounting professor at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School and co-author of the study, for the data the committee used to reach its conclusion. The academic study used data from a sample of 880 S&P 1500 firms while the Democratic staff survey used data from only the Fortune 250. “Demonizing executive pay won’t cure corporate ills or strengthen the performance of company stocks held by pension funds covering millions of Americans,” Oversight and Government Reform Committee Ranking Member Tom Davis (R-VA) said. “This new evidence proves executive compensation levels reflect market forces and correlate with company growth and increased stock value. The alleged causal relationship between consultant services and executive pay growth was always based on envy and hollow egalitarianism, not evidence.” “Chairman Waxman has demonstrated a pattern of manipulating information to maximize media exposure and to drive a partisan political agenda in the guise of oversight at hearings,” said Oversight and Government Reform Committee Domestic Policy Subcommittee Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA). “Committee Democrats have largely received a pass for conducting investigations that rely on innuendo and unvetted information to generate headlines, but in this instance they have tripped over the facts.” In explaining why the study done by Democratic Staff reached a flawed conclusion, the researchers point to methodology. “A recent report issued by the United States House of Representatives Committee on Oversight and Government Reform suggests that such conflicts may compromise pay,” stated the researchers. “However, the study fails to control for economic determinants of pay and therefore its conclusions should be interpreted with caution.” Carter, in summarizing the study for Wharton's online business journal, added that the congressional committee failed to take into consideration a number of variables, including company size. "Bigger and well-performing firms tend to pay their CEOs more," she said. The study conducted by three academic researchers concluded, “Overall, we do not find compelling evidence that the controversy and accusations regarding the use of potentially conflicted compensation consultants are warranted.” A copy of “The Role and Effect of Compensation Consultants on CEO Pay” and the Republican Response to the Democratic Staff Report are attached. ###
04.24.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista), today, announced that the City of Vista Fire Department has been awarded a $1,581,375 hiring grant as part of the SAFER (Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response) program. The grant should allow Vista to hire 15 new firefighters in stations in the downtown area. In September, Rep. Issa wrote to the Department of Homeland Security in support of the grant request. “The need for funding is clear,” Issa wrote in September. “The Vista Fire Department protects 38 square miles and a population of more than 113,000 residents in north San Diego County, an area not immune to wildfires of the kind California is seeing more frequently.” The goal of the SAFER program, according to the Department of Homeland Security, is to enhance the ability of grantees to attain and maintain 24-hour staffing and to assure that their communities have adequate protection from fire and fire-related hazards. “I pleased that the Department of Homeland Security has awarded Vista a grant that fully funds the city’s request to the SAFER program,” said Issa. “The amount of federal land in our area and the wildfires that took place last fall made clear the need for more fire protection.” Clich here for a copy of the letter Rep. Issa made in support of the City of Vista’s request is attached. ###
04.08.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Rep. Tom Davis (R-VA), the Ranking Member of the Full Committee, today, in a letter to Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Henry Waxman called for an investigation into questionable conduct by senior Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") officials in connection with EPA's recent decision on the State of California's request for a federal waiver to allow the state to enforce its own regulations on greenhouse gas emissions from motor vehicles. The Committee, under Chairman Waxman’s direction, is already investigating alleged lobbying by a Department of Transportation ("DOT") official to oppose the California request. “A decision not to investigate this matter would seem to indicate that otherwise improper lobbying will not be scrutinized by the Committee if the majority happens to agree with the position being advocated,” wrote Issa and Davis. Committee Democrats, in a letter to Secretary of Transportation Mary E. Peters, previously asserted that use of federal resources to lobby EPA on the California request was inappropriate. “[DOT staff’s action] raises serious concerns. It is not an appropriate use of federal resources to lobby members of Congress to oppose state efforts to protect the environment,” the June 12, 2007, letter stated. According to press reports and evidence obtained by the Committee in its investigation of the EPA’s rejection of California’s request, senior EPA officials responsible for the agency's work on the request provided substantial information and advice to a private individual to assist in his lobbying effort to persuade the EPA Administrator to grant the waiver. Such conduct raises serious questions about whether senior EPA officials either violated the lobbying ban or otherwise misused their positions to surreptitiously influence EPA's decision on the waiver request. Issa, the Ranking Member of the Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Domestic Policy, said a refusal by Democrats to investigate these new revelations would be yet another example of this Committee neglecting legitimate government oversight in favor of partisan politics and media show trials. “This Committee has used partisan politics and a zeal for media attention in choosing its investigations,” said Issa. “Its duty to seek and stop misuse of taxpayer dollars has been compromised by the partisan political lens through which it views its responsibilities.” A copy of the letter sent to Chairman Waxman is attached. ###
04.03.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), today released a list of his FY 2009 project funding requests. FY 2009 is the third consecutive year Rep. Issa has disclosed on his website all appropriations projects requests. Rep. Issa began these disclosures before the House of Representatives adopted additional disclosure requirements for projects in bills and his level of disclosure exceeds the requirements of House Rules. “These requests for funding address critical infrastructure and safety needs within our community,” said Rep. Issa. “Despite the fact that House rules don’t require this disclosure, I have chosen to make public all of my project requests so that my constituents can see for themselves the local projects I have forwarded for funding consideration. I have and will continue to urge my colleagues to make a disclosure of their requests as well.” In addition to these project requests, Rep. Issa has also asked the House Appropriations Committee to consider increasing money for key federal programs including funds to pay for additional U.S. Attorneys to focus on border crimes, the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP) and a new federal courthouse for San Diego. Rep. Issa, in January, announced new more stringent guidelines for entities seeking Federal funds through his office. Under the policy change, Rep. Issa did not make Fiscal Year 2009 appropriations requests on behalf of for-profit entities. In addition, local governments and non-profits were asked to have their councils or boards approve requests in a public meeting. According to Article I, Section 9, Clause 7 of the U.S. Constitution, “No money shall be drawn from the Treasury but in consequence of appropriations made by law.” Every year, Congress approves a budget that outlines federal spending. After Congress agrees to this budget outline, the House Appropriations committee then moves forward in deciding what and how much should be allocated for specific programs, agencies, and other federal needs. As a part of this process, the House Appropriations Committee asks all Members of the House to submit, for consideration by the Committee, the requests they feel may be important for their district, state, and the United States. The appropriations process is a multi-step approach, by which the Congress evaluates the merits of requests for funding. Only a small fraction of project requests the Appropriations Committee receives from Members will be funded. Gaining the support of a Member of Congress to ask for consideration for a specific funding request is an important first step in the appropriations process but does not guarantee any level of funding. Every year, Congressman Issa works as an advocate for requests from local governments, agencies, schools, and others that have relevance to the work of the federal government and that he believes have an opportunity to win federal funding support. Competition for federal funding is fierce and Congressman Issa works to help those in the 49th District and California make the best possible case for why their project should have federal support. ###
02.12.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, in direct response to the Berkeley California City Council’s disgraceful actions to limit Marine Corps recruiting during a time of war, Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista) and 41 House Republican members asked President George W. Bush to immediately rescind over $2 million in earmarks awarded to the City in the 2008 Consolidated Appropriations bill signed into law December 26, 2007. In the letter the Members state, “Our U.S. Marines do not selectively defend our country, its people, or our freedom. Therefore, we should not reward jurisdictions that selectively support our troops.” On January 29, the Berkeley City Council approved a recommendation defaming the U.S. Marine Corps stating the Marine Corps Recruiting Station at 64 Shattuck Avenue is “not welcome in the City, and if recruiters choose to stay, they do so as uninvited and unwelcome intruders.” The Council further instructed the City Attorney to seek legal options to remove the recruiting station and applauds and encourages residents and grassroots organizations, such as Code Pink, who attempt to impede the work of Marines at this location. “Speaker Pelosi and her demeaning and contradictory comments about the work our Marines are doing in Iraq have clearly emboldened MoveOn.org, Code Pink, and the City of Berkeley to pass this outrageous proclamation. Berkeley has insulted and condoned hateful harassment toward the men and women who serve in America’s armed forces,” said Rep. Issa who represents the largest Marine Corps facility on the west coast. “Sending designated federal money to this city strikes me as contrary to America’s national interest.” Cosigners of the letter include Republican Conference Chairman Adam Putnam (R-Florida), Armed Services Ranking Member and California colleague Duncan Hunter (R - El Cajon), and fellow California members Rep. John Campbell (R-Newport Beach), Brian Bilbray (R-Carlsbad), Ken Calvert (R-Corona), Wally Herger (R-Chico), Dana Rohrabacher (R), and Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-Santa Clarita). In light of the City of Berkeley’s actions, Issa also co-sponsored the Semper Fi Act introduced by Rep. John Campbell and H.Res. 958 by Rep. John Kline (R-MN) reaffirming Congress’s commitment to the men and women serving in the U.S. Marine Corps. Congressman Issa represents California’s 49th Congressional District, which includes Camp Pendleton Marine Corps Base in Oceanside, California. ###
02.10.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa today unveiled an amendment to H.R. 1424, the vehicle for the Paulson Bailout Plan, that would direct the Secretary of the Treasury to give preference to purchasing securities held by FDIC insured banks over those held by foreign institutions and speculators as part of any purchase program. Secretary Paulson has confirmed that foreign banks and institutions would be part of the proposed bailout. “A taxpayer funded purchase of troubled mortgage assets is a flawed approach to fixing our economy. However, if the taxpayers are going to pay for a bailout, it needs to be focused on the U.S. economy and not foreign institutions in China, the Middle East, and Europe or speculators who bought securities on a recent gamble,” said Issa. “Troubled institutions in other countries should be seeking assistance from their own governments.” The Issa Amendment to give preference to purchasing mortgage securities in the following order: Those acquired by FDIC insured banks before Jan. 1, 2008 Those acquired by other U.S. institutions before Jan.1, 2008 Those acquired after January 1, 2008 (with a purchase price cut to penalize last minute speculation) All others Click here for a copy of the Issa amendment that will be considered by the rules committee is attached. Rep. Issa remains opposed to the bailout plan passed by the Senate in its current form. ###
02.06.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista) hailed a unanimous vote by the California Costal Commission earlier today that will allow the Army Corps of Engineers to move forward with plans to operate and maintain the San Luis Rey River Flood Control Project. The Costal Commission’s approval of the consistency determination for vegetation and sediment management submitted by the Army Corps of Engineers will allow work on the project to begin once permits and approvals are issued by the San Diego Regional Water Quality Control Board and the National Marine Fisheries Service. The California Department of Fish and Game issued a permit for the project on Friday, February 1, 2008 and completed a necessary agreement with the city of Oceanside earlier this week. Over the past two months, Congressman Issa and Assemblyman Martin Garrick hosted a flurry of meetings and conference calls with participants from each of the involved state and federal agencies to resolve the outstanding areas of disagreement between regulatory officials. Staff members from the offices of Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, Senators Mark Wyland and Dennis Hollingsworth, and Assemblywoman Mimi Walters also participated. “After numerous consultations, I am pleased that we have overcome the most significant obstacles that have prevented the clearing of overgrown vegetation in the San Luis Rey River and denied residents of Oceanside the flood protection this project is designed to provide,” said Issa. “Collaborative efforts by the Army Corps of Engineers, the California Department of Fish and Game, the National Marine Fishery Services, the City of Oceanside, and other state and federal agencies have moved the project past several regulatory obstacles, and we anticipate the remaining permits will be issued in the coming weeks.” The Corps has established a tight schedule to complete the needed regulatory work on the project in time to begin clearing brush from the project area around the first of March. “We will continue to monitor their progress and react quickly to any delay that arises,” Issa pledged. ###
02.04.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The National Safety Council, a non-profit non-governmental organization with almost one hundred years of service in reducing unintentional injuries and deaths in America's workplaces, highways, homes and communities, has endorsed H.Res. 648, a resolution supporting the goals and ideals of Sudden Cardiac Arrest Awareness Day. The state of California proclaimed September 12 as Sudden Cardiac Arrest Awareness Day on September 12, 2006. “Awareness about sudden cardiac arrest and ensuring defibrillators are available in schools and other public buildings can save lives. Raising awareness of sudden cardiac arrest is a task worthy of Congress’ attention,” said Rep. Issa. “I’m pleased to have the National Safety Council as a partner is this effort. Sudden Cardiac Arrest (SCA) is a condition in which the heart suddenly and unexpectedly stops beating, causing blood to stop flowing to the brain and other vital organs. SCA usually causes death if not treated in minutes. Annually, 250,000 to 450,000 Americans have sudden cardiac arrest, and ninety-five percent of these people die within minutes. Rapid treatment of SCA with a defibrillator, a device that sends an electrical shock to the heart, can be lifesaving. The introduction of H.Res. 648 was inspired by the life of Travis Roy and the work his family has undertaken since his death. On May 20, 2005, 14 year-old Travis Roy was at school in Murrieta, California, when he suffered sudden cardiac arrest. His school, like most schools, did not have a defibrillator and, tragically, Travis died because treatment could not be administered fast enough. Since Travis’ death, his family has campaigned to raise awareness of Sudden Cardiac Arrest and to get defibrillators placed in schools. To date, several schools in the southern California area have implemented defibrillator programs, including the Murrieta Valley Unified School District, Temecula Valley Unified School District, San Jacinto Unified School District and Point Loma Nazarene University in San Diego. A copy of the letter endorsing H.Res. 648 is attached. ###
01.25.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista), today, announced new more stringent guidelines for entities seeking Federal funds through his office. Under the policy changes announced today, Rep. Issa will not make Fiscal Year 2009 appropriations requests on behalf of for-profit entities. In addition, local governments and non-profits will be asked to have their councils or boards approve requests in a public meeting. “These new requirements for funding requests I make on behalf of the 49th district are a part of my efforts to change the way the House spends taxpayer dollars,” said Rep. Issa, who expects the new guidelines to result in fewer requests. “The wisdom of Congress legislatively mandating 11,000 individual expenditures, as it did last year, is highly dubious. Taxpayers would be better served if funding decisions for many of these projects were made by Federal agencies.” Under the new guidelines, public agencies and non-profit organizations seeking designated Federal funding in Congressional spending bills must submit fully completed applications to Rep. Issa’s office by February 22. Rep. Issa will not consider requests made by businesses or other for-profit entities. Project requests that have been previously approved in Congress’ authorization process and transportation projects that are part of a regional transportation plan will be given preference over those that are not. As in the previous two years, Rep. Issa will publicly release the name of the requesting entity, a description, and the amount requested for each project Rep. Issa agrees to submit for review. “The Federal government plays an essential role in helping build transportation and other public infrastructure projects but Congress tries to micromanage too many projects,” said Rep. Issa. “Accountability for the widely acknowledged wastefulness of using federal funds for the proposed ‘Bridge to Nowhere’ in Alaska and the $2 million “Monument to Me ” that Rep. Charles Rangel (D-NY) secured for the “Charles B. Rangel Center for Public Service” in New York. In 2006, Rep. Issa became one of the first Members of Congress to disclose all appropriations project requests, and in 2007, he urged his colleagues to make a similar disclosure. Last year, a majority of California Republican Members of Congress disclosed their appropriations project requests. The new guidelines are a part of his continued efforts to force the federal government to act more fiscally responsible. He has pledged to be flexible in helping local governments and agencies comply with these new guidelines for requests and in addressing urgent needs for funding as they arise. ###
12.11.2007	WASHINGTON. D.C. - Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista), who served on the committee in 2003 that created the National Do-Not-Call registry, hailed House passage of H.R. 2601 and H.R. 3541. The bills, respectively, extend the authority of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to collect fees and administer the registry of phone numbers which telemarketers are prohibited from calling and repeal the requirement that numbers be reregistered every five years. "Many Americans have chosen to exercise their privacy rights and placed over 145 million phone numbers on the Do-Not-Call registry," said Rep. Issa. "This program is paid for by telemarketers, not taxpayers. I am pleased the House has chosen to extend this successful program." Under the law, the Federal Trade Commission maintains the list of home phone numbers of consumers who opted to register their number. Telemarketers then pay a fee to access the list to know which number they cannot call. Authority for collecting fees to administer this program had been set to expire at the end of this year. H.R. 2601 and H.R. 3541 now head to the Senate for consideration. Americans who would like to add their number to the Do-Not-Call Registry can do so by visiting https://www.donotcall.gov/. ###
12.07.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Southern California Members of Oversight and Government Reform Committee Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista) and Rep. Brian Bilbray (R-Solana Beach) to participate in Fallbrook field hearing chaired by Rep. Dennis Kucinich (D-Cleveland). OPEN TO THE PUBLIC Monday, December 10, 20079 a.m.Fallbrook Public Utilities District Board Meeting Room990 East Mission RoadFallbrook, CA 92028 Witnesses for the December 10 hearing include: Panel I· Mr. Tony Morris, Founder and Researcher, Wildfire Research Network· Mr. Jeffrey Bowman, Former Fire Chief, City of San Diego Fire-Rescue Department· Ms. Tracy Jarman, Fire Chief, City of San Diego Fire-Rescue Department· Mr. P. Michael Freeman, Fire Chief, Los Angeles County Fire Department· Mr. Chip Prather, Fire Chief, Orange County Fire Authority· Mr. Ruben Grijalva, Director, Department of Forestry and Fire Protection· Mr. Ron Roberts, Chairman, Board of Supervisors, County of San Diego Panel II· Ms. Nancy Ward, Region 9 Administrator, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)· Mr. Mark Rey, Undersecretary for Natural Resources and the Environment, U.S. Department of Agriculture Panel III· Mr. Steve Poizner, Commissioner, California Department of Insurance· Mr. Tracy Nelson, Chairman, La Jolla Indian Reservation ###
12.06.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista) the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Domestic Policy of the House Government Reform and Oversight Committee, which has oversight responsibilities of both U.S. courts and federal land management, today, blasted the decision by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals in the case Sierra Club v. Bosworth to reverse a previous judicial decision and stop wildfire prevention efforts on federal land. Issa described the Court’s decision as an assault on common sense and reason. Issa also criticized the Sierra Club and the California Resources Agency for ignoring wildfire threats and their roles in the 9th Circuit Court reversal. “The Court’s overzealous interpretation of environmental regulation is placing lives and personal property in danger,” said Issa. “In their decision, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals placed greater weight on the concerns of a special interest group than the lives and welfare of Americans threatened by wildfires.” In its decision, the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals wrote, “We conclude that because the Forest Service failed to demonstrate that it made a ‘reasoned decision’ to promulgate the Fuels CE based on all the relevant factors and information, its promulgation of the Fuels CE was arbitrary and capricious.” Judge Andrew J. Kleinfeld, in a concurring opinion of the 9th Circuit decision, expressed concern that the decision would endanger lives: Judge Kleinfled’s opinion expressing concern about 9th Circuit decision and danger it poses to Americans: “I cannot bring myself to believe that a Forest Service decision to cut brush and use controlled burns to reduce forest fire danger near urban areas is arbitrary and capricious. And I cannot quite bring myself to believe that the categorical exclusion in this case, covering less than one half of one percent of federal land, will have a cumulative impact on our environment requiring years more research, analysis and report writing before we do anything to protect people from forest fires. As a matter of common sense, cutting brush and using controlled burns on parcels no larger than 1,000 acres and 4,000 acres respectively seems most likely to have the cumulative impact of reducing the catastrophic effect of forest fires on people.” ###
10.29.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.– The House of Representatives, today, by voice vote passed legislation authored by Congressman Darrell Issa (H.R. 2728) to rename the Murrieta Border Patrol Station in honor of two Border Patrol Agents, Patrol Inspector Theodore Lawrence Newton, Jr., and Patrol Inspector (Trainee) George Frederick Azrak who were kidnapped and later murdered in the line of duty on June 17, 1967. "Naming the Murietta Border Patrol Station in honor of these two slain heroes will remind the community these officers served and protected of their legacy," said Rep. Issa. “Border Patrol agents do dangerous work and it is appropriate for Congress to honor fallen agents who made the ultimate sacrifice.” The saga and sacrifice of these two slain agents is well-known by the Border Patrol. The Newton/Azrak Award, the Border Patrol's highest award for bravery, is named for them. Newton and Azrak were kidnapped from their post during a traffic check operation along Highway 19 near Oak Grove, California, in the early morning hours of June 17. The check point was located about 75 miles north of the Mexican border on a route known to have been used by illegal aliens and smugglers of aliens, narcotics, and contraband. The officers failed to report in following an all-night assignment at the road check, and a hurried search failed to reveal the whereabouts of the men and their two vehicles, a jeep and a Border Patrol sedan. The Service jeep was soon located about a mile from the check point where it had been driven through two stock fences and left under a tree in an open field. On June 19, the bodies of the two agents were found. A reconstruction of the crime indicated that Patrol Inspectors Newton and Azrak intercepted a vehicle in which over 800 pounds of marijuana were being transported. While checking this vehicle the officers were overpowered by four convicted felons, two of whom had been following the load of marijuana in a second vehicle. The officers were then taken to the mountain cabin where they were made to lie prone with their arms extended toward each other inside a shelf of an old stove. The right wrist of one man was handcuffed to the left wrist of the other, and vice versa. While incapacitated in this manner they were shot and killed. Autopsies performed revealed Patrol Inspector Newton had been shot once in the head while three shots were fired into Patrol Inspector Azrak, two in the head and one in the chest. Their bodies bore no marks to indicate there had been a struggle. All four killers were eventually caught and convicted. Three of them were paroled while a fourth, Florencio Mationg, continues to serve a life sentence. "The death of these two Agents has brought about a tremendous amount of change with how the Border Patrol conducts operations," said one Border Patrol Agent recently. "The death of these Agents serves as a daily reminder of how precious life is. To have the Station named after these two Agents would serve as a living reminder of who these great gentlemen were. When each Agent walks through those doors, he or she knows that it represents the value of service and the cost that these fine men paid to protect our nation." Congressman Issa has called upon the Senate to quickly act on this legislation ###
10.24.2007	President Bush amended the emergency declaration for the State of California to include Individual Assistance. Eligible applicants can now apply for assistance under FEMA’s Individuals and Households Program (IHP), which provides financial help or direct services to those who have serious needs they are unable to meet through other means. Up to $28,800 is available in financial help. FEMA Call 1-800-621-3362 to apply for assistance orApply for assistance online: https://www.disasteraid.fema.gov/IAC/displayPage.do?forward=home& Do I Qualify for Assistance?First and foremost, to qualify for assistance, your losses must have occurred in an area covered by a disaster declaration. On October 23, 2007, President Bush declared an emergency exists in the state of California and ordered federal aid to supplement state and local response efforts in the area struck by wildfires beginning on October 21, 2007, and continuing. Secondly, if you have insurance, you must file a claim with your insurance company. If you have not already contacted your insurance agent to file a claim, please do this as soon as possible. Failure to file a claim with your insurance company may affect your eligibility for assistance. After filing a claim, if any of the following situations occur FEMA may be able to provide some assistance: You have exhausted the Additional Living Expenses (ALE) provided by your insurance company. Your insurance settlement is insufficient to meet your disaster-related needs. Disaster Assistance Available from FEMAHousing NeedsTemporary Housing Repair Replacement Permanent Housing Construction What Specific Items are Covered by "Housing Needs" Assistance?"Housing Needs" assistance is assistance from FEMA that may be used to repair any of the following:Structural parts of your home (foundation, outside walls, roof). Windows, doors, floors, walls, ceilings, cabinetry. Septic or sewage system. Well or other water system. Heating, ventilating, and air conditioning system. Utilities (electrical, plumbing, and gas systems). Entrance and exit ways from your home, including privately owned access roads. Blocking, leveling, and anchoring of a mobile home and recon-necting or resetting its sewer, water, electrical, fuel lines, and tanks. Do I Qualify for "Housing Needs" Assistance?To receive money or help for "Housing Needs" that are the result of a disaster, all of the following must be true:You have losses in an area that has been declared a disaster by the president. You have filed for insurance benefits and the damage to your property is not covered by your insurance or your insurance settlement is insufficient to meet your losses. You or someone who lives with you is a citizen of the United States, a non-citizen national, or a qualified alien. The home in the disaster area is where you usually live and where you were living at the time of the disaster. You are not able to live in your home now, you cannot get to your home due to the disaster, or your home requires repairs because of damage from the disaster. You may NOT be eligible for "Housing Needs" assistance if:You have other, adequate rent-free housing that you can use (for example, rental property that is not occupied). Your home that was damaged is your secondary or vacation residence. Your expenses resulted only from leaving your home as a precaution and you were able to return to your home immediately after the incident. You have refused assistance from your insurance provider(s). Your only losses are business losses (including farm business other than the farmhouse and self-employment) or items not covered by this program. The damaged home where you live is located in a designated flood hazard area and your community is not participating in the National Flood Insurance Program. In this case, the flood damage to your home would not be covered, but you may qualify for rental assistance or items not covered by flood insurance, such as water wells, septic systems, medical, dental, or funeral expenses. Other than Housing NeedsMoney is available for necessary expenses and serious needs caused by the disaster. This includes:Disaster-related medical and dental costs. Disaster-related funeral and burial cost. Clothing; household items (room furnishings, appliances); tools (specialized or protective clothing and equipment) required for your job; necessary educational materials (computers, school books, supplies). Fuels for primary heat source (heating oil, gas, firewood). Clean-up items (wet/dry vacuum, air purifier, dehumidifier). Disaster damaged vehicle. Moving and storage expenses related to the disaster (moving and storing property to avoid additional disaster damage while disaster-related repairs are being made to the home). Other necessary expenses or serious needs as determined by FEMA. Other expenses that are authorized by law. Do I qualify for "Other than Housing Needs" Assistance? To receive money for "Other than Housing Needs" that are the result of a disaster, all the following must be true:You have losses in an area that has been declared a disaster area by the President. You have filed for insurance benefits and the damage to your property is not covered by your insurance or your insurance settlement is insufficient to meet your losses. You or someone who lives with you is a citizen of the United States, a non-citizen national, or a qualified alien. You have necessary expenses or serious needs because of the disaster. You have accepted assistance from all other sources for which you are eligible, such as insurance proceeds or Small Business Administration disaster loans. Additional AssistanceCrisis CounselingDisaster Unemployment AssistanceLegal ServicesSpecial Tax Considerations What Information do I Need to Apply?Whether applying online OR over the phone, you should have a pen and paper and the following information ready:Your Social Security number. Current and pre-disaster address. A telephone number where you can be contacted. Insurance information. Total household annual income A routing and account number from your bank (only necessary if you want to have disaster assistance funds transferred directly into your bank account) A description of your losses that were caused by the disaster. Note: FEMA verifies the name and social security number of those registering for disaster assistance. If the name and social security number on file with the social security administration does not match the information you provide you will be asked to submit a copy of an original document, e.g. marriage license, military ID, tax documents, etc., for proof of identity. A need to review and update identity documentation may cause delays in delivery of assistance.After you've completed your application for assistance, you will receive a FEMA application number. Write down this number and keep it for future reference.Call 1-800-621-3362 to apply for assistance orApply for assistance online: https://www.disasteraid.fema.gov/IAC/displayPage.do?forward=home& ###
10.24.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.– California’s Congressional delegation, last night, sent a bipartisan letter to President George W. Bush thanking him for declaring a federal state of emergency and for providing aid to battle wildfires at the request of Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger. “Providing all available federal resources to partner with state and local efforts is absolutely critical, and we greatly appreciate your immediate action,” said the delegation in their letter to the President. “As conditions are constantly changing with the severity of the Santa Ana winds, and the assessment of damage continues to grow, it is imperative that the federal emergency response agencies continue to coordinate with the Governor’s office and the California Office of Emergency Services (OES) to provide the necessary resources to the men and women fighting these fires on the ground as well as to those providing emergency shelter and recovery efforts.” Federal military, Department of Homeland Security, and Department of Interior resources have already been mobilized to help in combating the wildfires and aiding evacuees. “The California Congressional delegation is working together to ensure that Federal assets are quickly made available as requested,” said Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista). “Evacuating residents and containing these swarming blazes is an enormous task. Every available resource to put out these fires is desperately needed.” “It’s ‘all-hands-on-deck’ right now for the California Congressional delegation as we work to address any federal needs by the state to combat the raging fires,” stated Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-Santa Clarita). “Our primary concern at this time is that local officials have the resources necessary to effectively evacuate residents and contain the fires that are destroying land and property as they advance. We will continue to do everything we can for the Governor and other officials who are coordinating statewide safety efforts, and we appreciate the President’s support at this time.” “California is battling some of the worst wildfires in its history and I commend the many firefighters, policemen, first-responders, and National Guardsmen who are putting their lives on the line in this fight,” stated Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Riverside). “The California Congressional delegation stands by ready to assist Governor Schwarzenegger and local county and city officials in any way we can.” "Every available federal resource will be dispatched to San Diego as soon as possible,” said Rep. Brian Bilbray (R-Solana Beach). Our first and foremost concern is the safety of residents who are being evacuated and to ensure that all of our evacuation centers have the supplies they need to support the influx of people." ### Related Resources:Wildfires Letter 10/07 (PDF 111.4 KBs)
10.23.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – San Diego County Representatives Duncan Hunter, Brian Bilbray, and Darrell Issa will attend a Congressional briefing tonight detailing efforts to fight San Diego County wildfires and aid evacuees. Representatives from the offices of Rep. Bob Filner, Rep. Susan Davis, Sen. Dianne Feinstein, and Sen. Barbara Boxer are also scheduled to attend. Reps. Hunter, Bilbray, and Issa will have a media availability following the briefing. What: Office of Emergency Services (OES) Congressional Briefing on San Diego County Wildfires When: October 23, 2007 at 9:00 PM (Pacific) Where: OES Center5555 Overland Drive, Building 19San Diego, CA ###
10.23.2007	President George W. Bush, today, acting on a request from California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, declared a Federal emergency in Southern California. The declaration by the President will provide direct federal assistance to help with debris removal and emergency protective measures, including: firefighting, evacuation operations, and sheltering of displaced people and animals. Aiding state and local workers, 33 active duty military, 79 Department of Defense civilian personnel and 1,500 California National Guard personnel are already engaged or directly supporting firefighting response, security and relief operations in Southern California. Twelve U.S. military helicopters have been deployed and nearly 2,000 bed spaces have been set-up for evacuees at military facilities. An additional 550 Active Duty Marines and 17,031 California National Guard personnel stand ready to deploy. Congressman Darrell Issa is coordinating with Gov. Schwarzenegger's office, the military, and the Department of Homeland Security to ensure that Federal assets are quickly made available as requested. "Many homes and businesses in Southern California are under grave threat," said Rep. Darrell Issa. "Firefighting crews are overwhelmed by the size and number of these wildfires. By getting Federal resources prepared to deploy, we can get these assets into position more quickly once requested." Those interested in volunteering with the Red Cross may call 858-309-1265. The following shelters are hosting evacuees, some are seeking supplies: Qualcomm Stadium Santana High School Poway Community Park Poway Girls & Boys Club Campo Community Center Mission Hills High School Santana High School - 9915 Magnolia Avenue (in Santee) Ramona High School Mission Hills Church (in San Marcos) Calvin Christian School Carlsbad High School Chula Vista High School El Camino High School Encinitas Senior & Community Center Escondido High School Mira Mesa High School Mount Carmel High School Naval Air Station North Island -Plaza Camino Real Valley Center High School For businesses or other large deliveries of food, blankets, or cots please call 858-663-8838 to coordinate with emergency workers. Checks for San Diego should be sent to American Red Cross at 3950 Calle Fortunada, San Diego, CA 92123. Write checks to the "American Red Cross San Diego Fire" or online at www.fdarc.org/donate. Updated emergency information about the fires in San Diego and Riverside counties can be found at the following websites: https://www.sdcounty.ca.gov/dmpr/emer/index.html https://www.rvcfire.org/opencms/index.html Summary of DOD Assets Supporting the Southern California Firefighting Efforts Tuesday, October 23, 2007 Operational Highlights 33 Active Duty, 79 DoD civilian personnel and 1,500 California National Guard personnel are actively engaged or directly supporting firefighting response, security and relief operations. An additional 550 Active Duty Marines and 17,031 California National Guard personnel are available for employment. -- Aviation Support: The National Guard is supporting firefighting efforts with a combination of 1 CH-47 and 5 UH-60 helicopters. The US Navy is providing 2 MH-60 aircraft in support of local firefighting efforts. The US Marine Corps has 1 CH-46 and 3 CH-53 helicopters on standby at Marine Corps Air Station Miramar, and one additional helicopter on standby at Camp Pendleton . All helicopters are bucket capable. Yesterday, DOD received a request from NIFC for six C130 Modular Air Firefighting System (MAFFS) equipped aircraft. A total of four MAFFS equipped Air National Guard C130 aircraft will deploy to . Estimated time of arrival is Tuesday afternoon, October 23. Two are from the 153rd Airlift Wing, Wyoming Air National Guard, and Two are from the 145th Airlift Wing, North Carolina Air National Guard. Two C130 equipped with MAFFS from the 302d Airlift Wing, US Air Force Reserves, Peterson AFB, CO will arrive at Naval Air Station Point Magu, CA, at 1430 PDT, Tuesday, October 23. -- Ground Firefighting Support: The Marine Corps has six fire trucks and the Navy has six fire trucks and a brush truck supporting local firefighting under Mutual Aid Agreements or Immediate Response Authority. -- Naval Support: COMTHIRDFLT (Commander, US Third Fleet in San Diego ) has accounted for all personnel and still collecting data on subordinate commands. In addition to one Aegis cruiser (CG) and one guided missile destroyer (DDG), two fast frigates (FFG) will remain in port to support evacuation and movement of family members if necessary. COMTHIRDFLT has not directed any underway ships to return to base. -- Facilities Support: The gymnasium at Naval Base San Diego has set up 500 cots for evacuees. A 500 person tent city is being set up at Naval Amphibious Base, Coronado and space for 442 persons is being prepared at Naval Air Station, El Centro . Only key and essential Naval personnel are requested to report to duty. Orders have been given to all sailors ashore in barracks to move to shipboard billeting to provide room for evacuees. Commander Navy Southwest Region is providing 500 cots for the Qualcom Stadium Shelter. Naval Logistics Center at Point Mugu has Cots and tents available if requested. FEMA has asked DoD to identify a military installation in Southern California to be the Forward Staging Area for Federal supplies flowing south from the FEMA logistics center, Moffitt Field, CA. -- California National Guard: 40th Special Troops Battalion, 40th Brigade Support Battalion, and the Military Police Battalion Headquarters are providing C2 and Logistics Support at Qualcom Stadium shelter. 200 personnel from Joint Task Force Vista have been assigned security support missions at the Del Mar Racetrack and Qualcom Stadium shelters. 40th Infantry Brigade Combat Team has alerted two 500 person Rapid Reaction Battalions and two 100 person Quick Reaction companies. Approximately 100 Medical personnel from the CA National Guard are providing staff augmentation at the San Diego Veterans Center which is experiencing critical staffing shortfalls resulting from voluntary and mandatory evacuation. ###
10.22.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Vista) announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency had approved Firefighting Management Assistance Grants to aid in the fighting of major wildfires burning in San Diego County. Under the grants, FEMA agrees to reimburse 75% of state and local firefighting costs. Other federal assets, including Navy and Marine helicopters, have been made available to assist firefighting efforts. “The number and size of the fires is overwhelming,” Rep. Issa remarked. “We have to put all the available federal, state and local resources into the fight as early as possible. I applaud FEMA’s quick response in approving California’s request for firefighting assistance and will continue to work with state and federal officials as the effort to contain these devastating fires continues.” Fire updates and information about road closures and evacuations are available from the San Diego County Office of Emergency Services at https://www.sdcounty.ca.gov/dmpr/emer/index.html ###
10.11.2007	Prohibited Political Activity By Grantees Alleged WASHINGTON , D.C. – Republican congressmen on the House Committee on Government Reform have begun to look into allegations that some agencies that received grants from the federal government’s Legal Services Corp. have participated in political activity in violation of the terms of their grants. Reps. Darrell Issa, R-Calif., chairman of the Domestic Policy Subcommittee, and Tom Davis, R-Va., the full committee’s ranking member, sent a letter to Frank Strickland, chairman of LSC, asking him to determine if LSC had adequate safeguards in place to guard against illegal political activity being undertaken with federal funds. They also wrote Ronald ‘Dutch’ Merryman, LSC’s acting inspector general, to request a briefing on whether the LSC IG’s office had the resources to adequately investigate such allegations. Finally, they wrote to full committee chairman Rep. Henry A. Waxman, D-Calif., to request a hearing on the conduct of LSC grantees. Issa and Davis want to know more about the conduct of two grantees in particular – California Rural Legal Assistance, Inc. (CRLA), and the Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles (LAFLA). CRLA reportedly violated Federal law by focusing on farm worker and Latino issues yet limiting services to inner-city residents. It then stymied an Inspector General investigation by failing to maintain records of funding sources for its activities and by failing to provide requested information even though statutes require that it produce such information upon request. An administrative complaint alleges LAFLA helped organize and advocate on behalf of the L.A. Taxi Worker’s Alliance. LSC grantees are prohibited from using any funds, federal or otherwise, to form an advocacy group, such as a labor union. “Legal Services Corporation was created to ensure those of limited means have access to adequate legal representation,” said Davis. “It was not created to become the legal arm for far-left advocacy groups that could not otherwise attract sufficient financial support to fund the legal and political services they desire.” “The Legal Services Corporation was not created to fund the unionizing of taxi cab drivers in Los Angeles,” said Issa. “These serious accusations of fraud, abuse, and lack of accountability need to be investigated.” ###
10.03.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa, today, offered praise of interim U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California Karen Hewitt following news that the San Diego office is on pace to file more cases in 2007 than any year since 2001 and positive reviews of changes she has made to immigration prosecution policies from Federal immigration and border protection officials. “The feedback I have heard from Federal employees charged with enforcing our immigration laws and protecting our borders about U.S. Attorney Karen Hewitt has been positive and encouraging,” said Rep. Issa. “While I continue to recognize that U.S. Attorneys in border areas like San Diego need more resources, I believe San Diego has a U.S. Attorney who understands that prosecuting serious crimes like human smuggling is an important and uniquely federal responsibility.” The San Diego Union-Tribune, today reported that according to Federal Court Records, the San Diego U.S. Attorney’s office is on pace to raise case filings for 2007 by 32% compared with 2006. The Los Angeles Daily Journal, today, also included praise of Hewitt in an article published today. Excerpts from today’s San Diego Union-Tribune story: Immigration prosecutions in San Diego are projected to be up 12.4 percent for the fiscal year that ended Sunday, compared with the previous fiscal year, according to data from the Department of Justice. The sharp increase is quietly welcomed by some federal law enforcement officials. They say U.S. Attorney Karen Hewitt, a career prosecutor named to replace Lam in February, displays a greater willingness to prosecute border-related cases. [Michael Unzueta, special agent in charge of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency in San Diego] said his agency has seen an upswing in prosecutions of human smuggling cases, and a marked increase in prosecutions of people who re-enter the country after being deported. Hewitt attributed the increase to several factors, including more resources – the office has added 10 prosecutors since she took over Feb. 15, bringing the total to 115. In 2005, Congressman Issa obtained an annual authorization of $5 million to specifically target prosecution of coyotes through 2009. At Rep. Issa’s urging, the Department of Justice has also added more prosecutors to border U.S. Attorney’s offices. “Hewitt’s performance should quell Democrat conspiracy theories about the motives behind Carol Lam’s removal,” said Issa. “U.S. Attorneys in San Diego continue to move forward with the prosecution of Duke Cunningham’s co-conspirators while achieving significant increases in the number of serious border crimes being prosecuted.”
10.02.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa, today, accused House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Democrats of holding a hearing on private military contractor Blackwater USA as part of an ongoing partisan smear campaign against U.S. efforts in Iraq. “MoveOn.org’s recent smear campaign against General David Petraeus failed so now anti-war Democrats are targeting Blackwater as a political stand-in for direct attacks against General Petraeus and our military,” said Issa. “This is not about Blackwater,” Issa stated during the hearing. “What they couldn’t do to our men and women in uniform, they’ll simply switch targets.” The timing of the hearing, Issa explained, follows a September 16 incident in Iraq currently under investigation and is intended to produce headlines rather than conduct real oversight responsibilities. Issa also criticized a report issued October 1, 2007, by Committee Democrats, saying it exposed the hearing as politically motivated. Page five of the report noted that Blackwater CEO Erik Prince, “served as a Whitehouse intern” in the 1980s under President George H.W. Bush as well as summarizing political donations made by Prince’s father and sister. “Allegations of wrong-doing against any contractor in Iraq need to be investigated and those guilty of wrongdoing must be appropriately punished,” said Issa. “House Committees are not cops or prosecutors. The Committee on Oversight and Government is neglecting opportunities to conduct needed oversight on government abuse and inefficiency in order to further a political agenda.”
09.26.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives today voted 341-79 to condemn, “in the strongest possible terms the personal attacks made by the advocacy group MoveOn.org impugning the integrity and professionalism of General David H. Petraeus.” “The House of Representatives took too long to condemn the vicious attack on an honorable member of our nation’s armed forces that MoveOn.org published in the New York Times more than two weeks ago,” said Rep. Darrell Issa. “But late is better than never. I am, however, disappointed that Congressman Bob Filner voted against condemning MoveOn.org’s reprehensible and false attack against General Petraeus.” Except for Congressman Filner, the entire San Diego, Riverside, and Orange County Congressional Delegations voted to condemn the MoveOn.org attack on General Petraeus and to recognize, “the service of General David H. Petraeus, as well as all other members of the Armed Forces serving in good standing, in the defense of the United States and the personal sacrifices made by General Petraeus and his family, and other members of the Armed Forces and their families, to serve with distinction and honor.” The Senate had earlier voted 81-0 to condemn the MoveOn.org attack on General Petraeus. The text of the Republican motion passed 341-79 today follows below: Motion To Recommit House Joint Resolution 52 Mr. LEWIS moves to recommit House Joint Resolution 52 to the Committee on Appropriations with instructions to report the same back to the House forthwith with the following amendment: At the end of the joint resolution, insert the following new section: Sec. 150. (a) Congress makes the following findings: (1) General David H. Petraeus was confirmed by a unanimous vote of 81-0 in the Senate on January 26, 2007, to be the Commander of the Multi-National Forces--Iraq; (2) General David H. Petraeus assumed command of the Multi-National Forces--Iraq on February 10, 2007; (3) General David H. Petraeus previously served in Operation Iraqi Freedom as the Commander of the Multi-National Security Transition Command--Iraq, as the Commander of the NATO Training Mission--Iraq, and as Commander of the 101st Airborne Division (Air Assault) during the first year of combat operations in Iraq; (4) General David H. Petraeus has received numerous awards and distinctions during his career, including the Defense Distinguished Service Medal, two awards of the Distinguished Service Medal, two awards of the Defense Superior Service Medal, four awards of the Legion of Merit, the Bronze Star Medal for valor, the State Department Superior Honor Award, the NATO Meritorious Service Medal, and the Gold Award of the Iraqi Order of the Date Palm; and (5) The leadership of the majority party in both the House of Representatives and the Senate implored the American people and Members of Congress early in January 2007 to listen to the generals on the ground. (b) It is the Sense of the Congress that the House of Representatives-- (1) recognizes the service of General David H. Petraeus, as well as all other members of the Armed Forces serving in good standing, in the defense of the United States and the personal sacrifices made by General Petraeus and his family, and other members of the Armed Forces and their families, to serve with distinction and honor; (2) commits to judge the merits of the sworn testimony of General David H. Petraeus without prejudice or personal bias, including refraining from unwarranted personal attacks; (3) condemns in the strongest possible terms the personal attacks made by the advocacy group MoveOn.org impugning the integrity and professionalism of General David H. Petraeus; (4) honors all members of the Armed Forces and civilian personnel serving in harm's way, as well as their families; and (5) pledges to debate any supplemental funding request or any policy decisions regarding the war in Iraq with the solemn respect and the commitment to intellectual integrity that the sacrifices of these members of the Armed Forces and civilian personnel deserve. ###
09.24.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following President George W. Bush’s statement on the budget where he reiterated his threat to veto bills with excessive spending, Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) today pledged his support to maintain a Presidential veto of any spending bill passed by the Democratic Congress exceeding the budget request made by the President. “The new Federal fiscal year is just days away and the Democrat Congress has failed to send the President any of the twelve bills that fund our government,” said Rep. Issa. “Their spending proposals, which exceed the President’s budget request by $22 billion are packed with earmarks and unnecessary spending. I will vote to uphold a Presidential veto of any spending bill that exceeds the amount requested by the President.” “In past years, the Republican Congress did not exercise fiscal restraint and last November the voters sent Republicans packing. Democrats have not heeded the lessons of these past mistakes. If Democrats envision an endgame of buying Republican votes with last minute earmarks to override a Presidential veto, I have a message for them: my vote is not for sale.” ###
09.18.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa, today, in testimony before the Workforce Protections Subcommittee of the House Committee on Education of the Workforce called on Congress to expand the amount of unpaid leave family members may take to care for a wounded serviceman. “The power of a strong support network and dedicated families is no more evident than in my Congressional District, which includes Camp Pendleton Marine Corp Base,” said Rep. Issa in testimony before the subcommittee. “Here I have seen the Wounded Warrior Clinic and the Naval Hospital, where I have talked with service members, their families, and health professionals who care for them.” Earlier this year, Rep. Issa introduced bipartisan legislation, H.R. 3391, that would expand the amount of leave family members of wounded servicemen may take under the Family and Medical Leave Act from 12 to 26 weeks annually. The President’s Commission on Care for America’s Returning Wounded Warriors made this recommendation. Bills introduced by both Rep. Issa and Senator Hillary Clinton, who also testified today, seek to implement this recommended change. “I realize challenges exist in the expansion of this Act for military family leave,” said Issa. “As a former business owner myself, I understand the difficulties of balancing employment demands. It is my sincere hope that we can find an appropriate balance in this discussion, so that employers will not just comply with an expansion of leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act, but will also embrace it.” ###
09.11.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa, today, announced the introduction of H.Res. 648, a resolution supporting the goals and ideals of Sudden Cardiac Arrest Awareness Day. The state of California proclaimed September 12 as Sudden Cardiac Arrest Awareness Day on September 12, 2006. “Awareness about sudden cardiac arrest and ensuring defibrillators are available in schools and other public buildings can save lives. Raising awareness of sudden cardiac arrest is a task worthy of Congress’ attention,” said Rep. Issa in a statement for the Congressional Record. Sudden Cardiac Arrest (SCA) is a condition in which the heart suddenly and unexpectedly stops beating, causing blood to stop flowing to the brain and other vital organs. SCA usually causes death if not treated in minutes. Annually, 250,000 to 450,000 Americans have sudden cardiac arrest, and ninety-five percent of these people die within minutes. Rapid treatment of SCA with a defibrillator, a device that sends an electrical shock to the heart, can be lifesaving. The indroduction of H.Res. 648 was inspired by the life of Travis Roy and the work his family has undertaken since his death. On May 20, 2005, 14 year-old Travis Roy was at school in Murrieta, California, when he suffered sudden cardiac arrest. His school, like most schools, did not have a defibrillator and, tragically, Travis died because treatment could not be administered fast enough. Since Travis’ death, his family has campaigned to raise awareness of Sudden Cardiac Arrest and to get defibrillators placed in schools. To date, several schools in the southern California area have implemented defibrillator programs, including the Murrieta Valley Unified School District, Temecula Valley Unified School District, San Jacinto Unified School District and Point Loma Nazarene University in San Diego. ###
09.07.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives today approved H.R. 1908, the Patent Reform Act of 2007, along with two amendments offered by Rep. Darrell Issa. H.R. 1908 represents the most sweeping reform of U.S. patent laws in half a century and has been closely followed by all sectors of the patent community. “As the holder of 37 United States patents, I came to Congress with the desire to tackle elements I found awry in our patent laws,” said Rep. Darrell Issa in a statement for the Congressional Record. “While in the private sector, I litigated several patent cases before our district courts and the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Through these experiences, I learned a great deal about patent law, both what was right with the law and areas that could use improvement.” One Issa amendment will permit patent applicants to delay publication until the later of (1) three months after a second Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) action or (2) 18 months after the filing date. Rep. Issa offered this amendment due to concerns that publishing a patent application too early will expose an inventor to widespread infringement at home and abroad. This amendment allows inventors to keep their application from publishing for longer than the underlying legislation. The second Issa amendment requires that Congress be provided 60 days to review (PTO) regulations before they take effect. Congress may bar implementation of the regulation by enactment of a joint resolution of disapproval. Allowing the USPTO greater rulemaking authority could jeopardize innovation within the United States because a new rule could have widespread harmful effects on patent holders, applicants, etc., depending on the type of rule. This amendment provides a manner for Congress to intervene when it disagrees with a rule, but does so while following Supreme Court precedent regarding legislative vetoes. Both amendments were agreed to by voice vote. “There are strong arguments in favor of reform, as well as strong arguments in favor of caution as we move forward,” said Issa in debate over patent reform legislation. “Our patent laws have not had an overhaul in many decades, while technology has advanced exponentially. Not all of our patent laws fit today with the advancements we have seen in electronics, biotechnology, and many other areas. Importantly, many commentators and practitioners are concerned with the preponderance of over-zealous litigation and what some deem exaggerated damages awards.” H.R. 1908 was passed by a vote of 220 to 175. ###
09.06.2007	Washington, DC – Congressman Darrell Issa, today, released a letter from the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) refuting the claims of Oversight and Government Reform Committee Democrats on the subject of “Hot Fuels” and reiterated his previous accusation that Chairman Henry Waxman and Democrats on the committee, which held two hearings on “Hot Fuels,” were substituting political theatre for legitimate, factually based oversight. “Using suspect accusations to stir up anger over high energy costs may be shrewd politics but it is not good government oversight,” said Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) the Ranking Member on the Domestic Policy Subcommittee. “The American people are increasingly cynical about this Democrat Congress because they know the Democrat Leadership is misleading the public and has few legislative accomplishments.” While Democrats have alleged a massive fraud that rips Americans off at the pump by not accounting for the expansion of gasoline on warmer days and have advocated legislation enacting new regulations, the letter from the FTC concluded that on an 80 degree day the expansion of gasoline in a 20 gallon purchase would equal a total of only 6 tablespoons (3 fluid ounces) of fuel for the entire fill-up. The FTC further argued that the sale of “Hot Fuels” may not cost consumers (due to automatic market adjustments), but new regulations that Democrats have proposed might actually raise fuel costs to consumers rather than lower them. “Although the FTC has not conducted an investigation of this matter, it appears that the sale of ‘hot fuel’ might not cost consumers extra money, while the solution under consideration may raise consumer prices,” wrote FTC Chairman Deborah Platt Majoras. “While pursuing ‘hot fuels’ Democrats have fudged numbers, talked themselves silly about a non-issue, and concocted a fix that would actually cost consumers money,” said Issa. “The FTC has reaffirmed that convenience stores that sell gas, like most small business, don’t need this burdensome government regulation that will ultimately cost consumers.” A copy of the letter from the FTC to Rep. Issa is attached. ### **** (9/11/07) The FTC has confirmed to Rep. Issa that the coeffecient for the expansion of gasoline cited in their letter and used to calculate the "6 tablespoons" statistic is not correct. Related Resources:FTC Hot Fuels (PDF 153.3 KBs)
08.02.2007	Democrats on Committee of Oversight and Government Reform, Afraid of Votes on Rights of D.C. Gun Owners, Taxpayer Funded Abortions, and Medicinal Marijuana, Pull Bill to Avoid Embarrassing Defeat WASHINGTON, D.C. – The threat of Republican amendments from Reps. Darrell Issa (R-CA), Jim Jordan (R-OH), and Virginia Foxx (R-NC) at a markup held by the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today, forced Democrats to pull from consideration H.R. 733, the District of Columbia Budget Autonomy Act of 2007. The bill would have removed and reduced Federal Oversight and Congressional responsibilities on federal taxpayer money spent in the District of Columbia. “The Constitution gives certain oversight responsibilities to Congress in governing the District of Columbia and overseeing Federal expenditures,” said Rep. Darrell Issa. “Most Americans don’t want Federal dollars flowing freely to efforts by the District of Columbia to attack the rights of gun owners, use public money for abortions, and circumvent drug laws.” Jordan, author of the amendment to protect against taxpayer funding of abortion, said that issues like protecting human life are of such importance to every American that federal tax dollars should never be used to fund it. “I am optimistic that members can find a way to agree on fundamental, constitutional issues like these,” he added. “Congress has a clear responsibility to make sure that taxpayer funds for the District of Columbia are not wasted or spent on projects opposed by many Americans,” Rep. Foxx said. “The right to life, the right to bear arms and federal drug laws are important to our constituents and we cannot blindly appropriate taxpayer dollars without any stipulations reflecting the will of the American people.” Rep. Issa offered amendments supporting the rights of D.C. residents to own firearms for personal security, Rep. Jordan offered an amendment barring the District from using public funds to pay for abortions, and Rep. Foxx would have offered an amendment prohibiting the use of funds for legalizing marijuana. This latest setback for Democrats attempting to protect their liberal agenda that most Americans and the majority of Congress does not support follows an episode on the floor of the House on April 19 when Democrats, afraid of a vote on protecting the rights of D.C. gun owners, scuttled legislation granting D.C. a vote in the House of Representatives. Democrats later brought back and passed the legislation under a closed rule that belied past promises to pass legislation through an open process. “Democrats, once again, showed their fear of direct votes on issues like gun rights, abortion, and legalizing drugs where they are out of touch with America,” said Rep. Issa. “Democrats aren’t offering real and workable solutions on Iraq, fighting terrorism, fixing Social Security, and other issues Americans care about. Their unwillingness to put themselves on the record on issues where they are out-of-step with America shouldn’t be a surprise.” ###
07.31.2007	Bill also bans development or building of roads on transferred lands WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa, today, hailed the passage by unanimous consent in the House of Representatives of H.R. 2963, the Pechanga Band of Luiseno Mission Indians Land Transfer Act of 2007, which will transfer 1,178 acres in Riverside County and San Diego County to the Federal Trust for the Pechanga tribe for preservation of culturally and historically significant lands. Issa first introduced the measure in 2004 after the Federal Bureau of Land Management identified the parcel as surplus and eligible for transfer. “The Pechanga tribe has the resources and desire to better preserve the lands without cost to the taxpayers,” said Rep. Darrell Issa. “The proposed acreage will not be developed but will be preserved to protect items and sites of cultural and historical significance to the tribe.” H.R. 2963 was introduced earlier this year as H.R. 28, but was reintroduced to address technical issues related to an existing power line on the San Diego County portion of the land and to add a stipulation banning the construction of roads, except for maintenance purposes. The legislation stipulates the sale, at fair market vale, of 12.82 or fewer acres where the transmission line is located to San Diego Gas & Electric, the owner of the line. Rep. Issa has worked with Sen. Dianne Feinstein to facilitate the transfer of these lands in Riverside and San Diego counties. H.R. 2963 now heads to the Senate for approval. ###
07.31.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa, today, announced the passage by unanimous consent in the House of Representatives of H.R. 31, the Elsinore Valley Municipal Water District Wastewater and Recycled Water Facilities Act of 2007. The legislation authored by Rep. Darrell Issa and supported by Reps. Ken Calvert and Mary Bono authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to participate in the design, planning, and construction of water recycling and distribution facilities in the Elsinore Valley Municipal Water District (EVMWD). The legislation authorizes $12.5 million in federal funding. “Our water resources in Southwest Riverside County must continue to meet demand in a time of rapid growth and development in our area. Recycled water projects are an efficient way of developing and expanding these resources,” said Rep. Darrell Issa. “I am pleased that the House has acted to pass this legislation and will work with California’s Senators to achieve passage into law.” “Congressman Issa has been instrumental in moving H.R. 31,” said Greg Morrison, EVMWD. “Providing additional recycled water has become particularly important because of dwindling imported water supplies. The passage of this bill will greatly help us meet our customers’ future water needs.” Water demand within EVMWD’s service area has grown rapidly due to new development and population growth. EVMWD expects water demand to more than double by 2020. As a result, EVMWD has sought ways to use recycled water to offset limited sources of potable water supply. Developing the Wildomar Recycled Water project and the Alberhill Wastewater Reclamation Facilities will create approximately 4,500 acre feet a year in new water. ###
07.25.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa, a member of the House Judiciary Committee today, hailed the inclusion of language adding new prosecutors to focus on alien smugglers in H.R. 3093, the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2008 that funds the Justice Department. Report language in H.R. 3093 directs an additional, “$7,400,000 and 72 additional positions to address the growing number of illegal immigration cases, particularly involving human traffickers.” Issa, who since 2004, has led the charge to bring attention and needed resources to the failure of the Department of Justice to prosecute even repeat offenders and those who work in connection with organized criminal syndicates hailed the additional resources. Issa, earlier this year, wrote to leaders on the House Appropriations Committee to request that funds be specifically allocated for targeting human traffickers. “Targeting those who, as a profession, undermine our border security and immigration laws is a logical place for Federal prosecutors to concentrate their efforts to deter illegal border crossings,” said Issa. “Unlike many crimes, border crimes and alien smuggling are uniquely under Federal jurisdiction. State and local prosecutors don’t have the authority to try these cases. U.S. Attorneys do their job or the smugglers go free.” In 2005, Congressman Issa obtained an annual authorization of $5 million to specifically target prosecution of coyotes through 2009. “The dangers alien smugglers pose to border communities, our national security, and even the safety of the illegal aliens smuggled into our country has been recognized. I am pleased that Congress is increasingly paying attention to this problem and I remain committed to ensuring that the Department of Justice makes the prosecution of these crimes a priority.” The House begins consideration of H.R. 3093 today. ###
07.20.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Members of Congress are required to file annual personal financial disclosure reports detailing their personal financial interests. Although Members are not required to publish their annual financial disclosures on their websites, I have chosen to do so in the interest of making these important public records readily accessible. The report is available at the following URL: http://issa.house.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=Files.View&FileStore_id=261 ### Related Resources:2007 Financial Disclosure (PDF 391.6 KBs)
07.18.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Judiciary Committee today approved H.R. 1908, the Patent Reform Act of 2007 – the most sweeping reform proposal to U.S. patent laws in half a century. “This reform legislation will retune America’s patent laws to maximize innovation in our economy of ideas,” said Rep. Issa (R-CA) who cosponsored the proposal. “After extensive consultations throughout the patent community, this reform proposal has found a balance for protecting the rights of the inventor, increasing the efficiency of resolving disputes, and creating new protections against frivolous patent claims. I do, however, believe that this legislation can be further improved, particularly in the areas of apportionment of damages and preventing forum shopping.” H.R. 1908 was amended at the Committee mark-up by lead sponsor Rep. Howard Berman (D-CA) to, among other provisions, include a proposal from Congressman Issa to improve upon the current reexamination process instead of creating a second window in the post grant procedure that provides an alternative to litigation. The issue of the proposed “second window” has been one of the most contentious in the patent reform debate. “Darrell Issa is truly the patent expert of this Congress, and he made many constructive suggestions – and an emphasis on many – to improve the bill and those suggestions have been incorporated into this amendment,” said Congressman Berman during today’s mark-up. “The Patent Reform Act has made incredible progress. I applaud Congressman Howard Berman and Ranking Member Lamar Smith (R-TX) for their hard work over the years that made today’s committee passage possible,” said Issa. ###
07.17.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives, today, as part of the 2008 Energy and Water Appropriations bill included funding for three key 49th Congressional District Projects. “This funding will help local communities and regional planners keep pace with the rapid growth in our region,” said Rep. Issa. “The completion of critical water projects by the Army Corps of Engineers such as the Murrieta Creek flood control project and clearing the San Luis Rey River of vegetation remain top priorities. These funds represent yet another step forward toward addressing flood prevention in local communities.” Project Location: Temecula, CA Project Requested By: Riverside County Flood Control District & City of Temecula Project: Murrieta Creek Flood Control Project Project Description: The Murrieta Creek Flood Control Project will provide 100-year flood control, environmental restoration, and recreation benefits to southwest Riverside County including the Cities of Temecula and Murrieta. This request will complete the second phase of a four phase flood control project. It will improve 7 miles of Murrieta Creek from Old Town Temecula to Tenaja Road in Murrieta, which will allow water to flow safely through the cities of Temecula and Murrieta and create a sanctuary for native plants and animals. The Riverside County Flood Control District is overseeing the project with the US Army Corps of Engineers. Amount Awarded: $2,000,000 Project Location: Oceanside, CA Project Requested By: City of Oceanside/Army Corps of Engineers Project: San Luis Rey River Flood Protection: Riverbed/Vegetation Clearing Plan Project Description: During the construction phase of the river project, all vegetation was removed. The current level of vegetation within the project areas is all natural growth. The extent of the density of the vegetation has reduced the level of flood protection to below an acceptable level by the Corps. The original flood control project would have provided a 250-year level of protection. The current level of protection is far below the 100-year level of protection. During a 100-year storm, the expected flow in the river would be 50,000 cubic feet per second. During the storms in 2005, the river flows were approximately 25,000 cubic feet per second, which resulted in significant local flooding and public infrastructure damage. Amount Awarded: $2,000,000 Project Location: Riverside County, CA Project Requested By: Rancho California Water District Project: Recycled Water Expansion Feasibility Study Project Description: This project will relieve 144 cubic feet per second of peak demand from the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California regional treated water system and to relieve demands on the Colorado River and the CA Bay Delta. Amount Awarded: $250,000 ###
07.11.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), one of the most successful business entrepreneurs in Congress who founded and built a NASDAQ listed consumer electronics company, today at a hearing of the House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Domestic Policy, strongly cautioned his colleagues to not confuse Private Equity Funds with Hedge funds. Issa lamented the lack of understanding in Congress about the nature and purpose of private equity funds in the business world and the enormously positive role private equity funds play in rejuvenating American companies and their central role in growing American pension and retirement funds. “When the business community develops a successful model, this Democrat Congress will want to regulate it. If it continues to succeed they want to tax it,” said Issa. “Democrats are attempting to confuse the public by combining apples and oranges. Private Equity Funds and Hedge Funds are fundamentally different.” While publicly traded companies tend to focus on creating immediate profits, Private Equity Funds typically purchase mature businesses that are underperforming or that have the potential to outperform current expectations. Following the purchase of such a business, Private Equity Fund Managers focus on long-term efforts to maximize the value and operations of a company rather than immediate profits. Private equity funds typically own these targeted businesses for several years before reselling the revamped business. Hedge Funds, on the other hand, are generally pools of capital invested in stocks, bonds, or commodities. They typically do not purchase a controlling interest in a company. Instead, the typical business model seeks to capitalize on short-term gains. The typical holding period for a hedge fund investment is weeks or months, and rarely years. As an example of a successful Private Equity Fund acquisition, Rep. Issa cited the purchase of Dunkin Brands (Dunkin’ Doughnuts) in 2006, that was an under-performing asset in a larger family of companies. The private equity firm’s strategy required significant expenditures that reduced short term earnings. The CEO of Dunkin Brands recently told the House Financial Services Committee that private equity enabled them to, “make significant investments in our infrastructure … and opened door to opportunities that were previously beyond their reach.” Now, Dunkin Brands expects to create 250,000 new jobs as they open new stores across the United States. This turnaround (and the 250,000 new jobs) was made possible because of the opportunity provided by private equity. “Democrats have already begun discussions about new regulations and increasing taxes on Private Equity Funds – they have not made the case for why this business model should be regulated or taxed differently than other companies that decide to go public. Democrat efforts to fund their spending binge by punishing the success of a relatively new business model are misguided and contrary to the well-being of our free market economy.” ###
07.10.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives, today, approved H.R. 1725, introduced by Reps. Mary Bono (R-Palm Springs), Darrell Issa (R-Temecula), and other Riverside County Members authorizing up to $20 million for the Rancho California Water District (RCWD) regional Integrated Resources Plan (IRP). The IRP will assess the region’s demand for water and ensure sufficient supply for Southwest Riverside County through 2050. “As Southwest Riverside County continues to grow, so do our water resource needs,” said Rep. Issa. “The passage of this legislation helps keep long-term infrastructure needs on pace with growth in our community.” To bolster the region’s infrastructure, the Integrated Resources Plan would include three construction projects. In an effort to increase the region’s water storage capacity, the first project would construct the Vail Lake Pipeline, connecting Metropolitan Water District’s aqueduct to Vail Lake. The second project would devise a water delivery system from Vail Lake to convert agricultural irrigation to raw water use, resulting in a $200 per acre-feet savings for RCWD, which will be passed on to its customers. The last initiative aims at providing a year-round source of irrigation water for local farmers by boosting recycling efforts within existing watershed for citrus, wine and avocado crops. The IRP will maximize the beneficial reuse of recycled water within the Santa Margarita River watershed by converting agricultural demands from potable/treated water to non-potable water and will also benefit the Eastern Municipal Water District by reducing pumping costs associated with transporting recycled water. ###
06.22.2007	Ranking Member Davis, Rep. Issa Urge SEC to Ignore Political Interference and Proceed with Existing Regulatory Process WASHINGTON, D.C. –Ranking Member Tom Davis (R-VA) and Domestic Policy Subcommittee Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-CA) today, in a letter to U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Christopher Cox, criticized an effort by Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Henry Waxman (D-CA) and Domestic Policy Subcommittee Chairman Dennis Kucinich for political interference in the regulatory process of the proposed IPO of Blackstone LP. “The Waxman/Kucinich request is an unwarranted interference in capital markets, which if successful, will have a chilling effect on those markets,” wrote Davis and Issa. “Further, the Waxman/Kucinich action goes beyond the legitimate oversight role of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and the Congress generally.” In their June 21 letter urging that the Blackstone IPO not be accelerated, Waxman and Kucinich wrote that currently Blackstone funds, “can be sold only to sophisticated investors, such as wealthy individuals and institutional investors … the Blackstone LP IPO presents novel questions because it appears to be a vehicle for allowing public investors to participate in hedge-fund type investments that have previously been considered unsuitable.” The Waxman/Kucinich letter, “suggests a general disdain for the free market system which has brought this country unparalleled growth and made it the envy of the world,” wrote Davis and Issa. Davis and Issa compared the effort to retroactively attack the public sale of Blackstone to political efforts in Russia targeting the oil company Yukos. “We have all expressed strong concerns over the backsliding of democracy and the free market system in Russia. We should certainly not condone similar actions in the United States,” wrote Davis and Issa. “We urge you to let the SEC regulatory process proceed without the raw political interference exemplified by the Waxman/Kucinich request.” ### Related Resources:(WMV 3.8 MBs)
06.13.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following the Thursday decision by the International Trade Commission (ITC) in the Broadcom V. Qualcomm decision, Rep. Issa issued the following statement: “By allowing the continued importation of existing phones using the chip in question the ITC, in its decision, clearly recognized that the public interest would be ill-served by a full exclusion order. “Broadcom based its case on a stand-alone chip and only after the ITC’s decision asked to exclude the complete cell phone using the chip. The ITC should have focused on the question of whether or not to exclude the chip itself rather than the cell phone. This arbitrary decision will preclude enhancements, unrelated to this chip, in future cell phones utilizing this technology while existing phones using the same chip will continue to be imported. This will stifle innovation by cell phone manufacturers. “After a review of the judgment, I find the middle ground approach by the ITC in this case inconsistent and will continue to press this point as the process moves forward.” On March 21, 2007, Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista) testified before the ITC in the case of Broadcom v. Qualcomm. Issa testified that, “the ITC should not become the de facto venue for parties unable to gain injunctive relief at the district courts.” ###
06.08.2007	A Behind the Scenes Look At How Today’s Political Theatre Came Together WASHINGTON, D.C. – While some believed that casting difficulties, title changes, and scheduling conflicts might derail or delay today’s performance entitled “Hot Fuels: Big Oil’s Double Standard for Measuring Gasoline,” Waxman & Company Productions was not to be denied. “It’s really pretty amazing that this piece of political theatre is happening,” said one critic, Rep. Darrell Issa, who follows the work of Waxman & Company. The first challenge facing Waxman & Company in launching today’s drama was finding the right witness to cast as the villain. Well-known names such as Exxon and Shell were contacted but declined the part. Others were considered, but Waxman & Company found a relative unknown to cast as the villain: small business owners who run retail gas convenience stores. Integrated oil companies own fewer than 10% of retail outlets while 57% of retail outlets are single store companies. “All they have to do is say ‘they manipulated what consumers pay at the pump’ and they’ll get the headline they’re seeking,” noted Issa. “Small business is effectively the understudy filling in today for ‘Big Oil.’” Another challenge in producing today’s drama was finding the right title. The production’s script was originally titled, “Summer Temperatures Drive Up Gasoline Prices at the Pump (5/30),” but then, only a few days before the performance, the title shifted to, “Hot Fuels: Big Oil’s Double Standard for Measuring Gasoline (6/4).” “They had to get the words ‘Big Oil’ in the title if this show was going to go anywhere,” said Issa. “Even if the story is really about raking small business owners for political gain – without the words ‘Big Oil’ in the title this goes nowhere.” Rescheduling today’s performance (that was originally scheduled for Thursday) on a Friday when no votes were taking place in the House of Representatives also posed an obvious potential problem: what if no one shows up? While there will be a number of open seats on the Republican side of the dais, in fact all of them to be exact, the show, apparently, must go on. “When the subject of political theatre is gas prices – ‘you’ll laugh, you’ll cheer, you’ll cry’ – gets replaced by – ‘you’ll pay, you’ll pay, you’ll pay’ – because this farce of a hearing isn’t going to lower what we pay at the pump,” added Issa. A copy of the letter from the Government and Oversight Domestic Policy Subcommittee Ranking Member Darrell Issa to Domestic Policy Subcommittee Chairman Rep. Dennis Kucinich follows below: June 8, 2007 The Honorable Dennis KucinichChairman, Domestic Policy SubcommitteeCommittee on Oversight and Government Reform2445 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Kucinich: This letter is intended to inform you of my deep regret that this hearing has been rescheduled for a Friday morning, a day when there are no votes on the House Floor. The obvious result is that many Members of Congress will be traveling back to their districts, and unable to participate in the hearing. In a Democracy whose lifeblood is fueled by the market place of ideas, Committee practices that stifle or preclude full debate should be avoided at all cost. Furthermore, I am frustrated that you have substituted the small business retailers of gasoline (Seven-Eleven, Wawa, Sheetz, and others that make up the convenience store industry) for the true “Big Oil” companies, over which you claim to be conducting oversight, but who declined your invitation to testify on this issue of intense national concern. Perhaps I should not be so concerned about today’s hearing, which one could describe as being frivolous, for at least it is a step above some Full Committee Hearings, which approach fraudulence. As one prominent newspaper editorial board observed in the wake of Wednesday’s hearing on the prescription drug Avandia, “The Waxman approach is clear: come up with possible safety problems with questionable statistical approaches; share then with friendly members of Congress and editorialists who will use the findings to attack FDA; hold hearings in order to put companies on the defensive and generate more lawsuits.” The same criticism could be leveled at today’s hearing, or at least its title, except we have actually added one level of absurdity. As “Big Oil” is referenced in the title of the hearing, “Hot Fuels: Big Oil’s Double Standard for Measuring Gasoline,” one would think that the target of today’s hearing is “Big Oil.” However, I want to make it very clear that today’s conversation has very little to do with the collective entities popularly known as “Big Oil.” While many retail gas establishments bear the trademarked names of “Chevron” “Texaco” or “Shell,” most convenience stores are franchise units. In fact, 57% of convenience stores are single store companies and less than 10% of retail outlets are owned by integrated oil companies. Put simply, we are today talking about the retail gasoline industry. This industry is highly competitive and dominated by small business owners. These companies are very much impacted by the high price of fuel. Policy makers on the left and the right should never loose sight of the fact that additional regulatory burdens will always have this type of impact on small business owners who are only marginally profitable. Ironically, it is the refiner owned/operated locations that will be most able to absorb the higher compliance burden if the government were to mandate installation of temperature corrected dispensers. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, while you pursue this line of inquiry, please do not assume that just because “Big Oil” is making record profits, that they are one and the same as independent gas retailers, who for the most part are entrepreneurs, currently struggling to survive under challenging market conditions. Anything short of this acknowledgment is dangerously close to going from the frivolous to the fraudulent. I request that my statement be inserted into the record for today’s hearing. Sincerely, Darrell IssaRanking MemberDomestic SubcommitteeOversight and Government Reform ###
06.06.2007	Call for transparency follows disclosure that Democrats intend to hide Earmarks from Scrutiny WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista), today in a letter to all Members of the House of Representatives, urged his colleagues on an individual and voluntary basis to publicly disclose their FY 2008 Appropriations project requests. “While the leadership of the Appropriations Committee forges a procedural shield to protect wasteful spending and thwart public scrutiny of projects, I urge you to counter this wrong-headed approach and join the handful of Members who have made a voluntary public disclosure on their websites of all FY 2008 project requests made to the Appropriations Committee,” wrote Issa who in March, for the second year in a row, posted his annual appropriations project requests on his Congressional website.“The ‘Duke’ Cunningham earmark-bribery scandal brought new scrutiny to Members of Congress and, specifically, to the Appropriations process,” continued Issa in his letter to colleagues. “Constituents want to know that the project requests we make benefit our communities, our country, and don’t line our own pockets.” Rep. Issa’s call for all Members to publicly disclose their Appropriations project requests comes just days after Rep. William Jefferson was indicted for allegedly masterminding a bribery scheme. According to the Associated Press, while Democrats pledged to make the Appropriations process more transparent, “Democrats are sidestepping rules approved their first day in power in January to clearly identify ‘earmarks’ -- lawmakers' requests for specific projects and contracts for their states -- in documents that accompany spending bills. Rather than including specific pet projects, grants and contracts in legislation as it is being written, Democrats are following an order by the House Appropriations Committee chairman to keep the bills free of such earmarks until it is too late for critics to effectively challenge them.” Link to Issa FY 2008 Appropriations project requests Link to Issa FY 2007 Appropriations project requests Rep. Issa’s letter to colleagues follows below: June 6, 2007 Dear Colleague: I urge you to better Congressional transparency by joining a handful of Members who have publicly disclosed their Appropriations project requests. An effort is reportedly underway on the Appropriations Committee to hide Member “earmark” requests from public scrutiny. According to the Associated Press, “Democrats are following an order by the House Appropriations Committee chairman to keep the bills free of such earmarks until it is too late for critics to effectively challenge them.” While the leadership of the Appropriations Committee forges a procedural shield to protect wasteful spending and thwart public scrutiny of projects, I urge you to counter this wrong-headed approach and join the handful of Members who have made a voluntary public disclosure on their websites of all FY 2008 project requests made to the Appropriations Committee.The “Duke” Cunningham earmark-bribery scandal brought new scrutiny to Members of Congress and, specifically, to the Appropriations process. Constituents want to know that the project requests we make benefit our communities, our country, and don’t line our own pockets. As a San Diego editorial page recently wrote, “pork is in the eye of the beholder, and any reasonable requests that are going to improve infrastructure, beaches, law enforcement and water supply and quality for San Diego and Riverside counties sound good to us. What's important is that voters know just who their congressmen are lobbying for, whether it's local concerns or defense contractors. No more ‘Duke Stirs.’”While the Appropriations Committee may continue to protect the secrecy of Member project requests, the voluntary disclosure of project requests by Members increases transparency and is a step toward restoring public confidence in the House of Representatives. Sincerely, Darrell IssaMember of Congress Associated PressHouse Keeps Pet Projects From ScrutinyBy ANDREW TAYLORAssociated Press Writer 9:31 AM PDT, June 3, 2007 WASHINGTON — After promising unprecedented openness regarding Congress' pork barrel practices, House Democrats are moving in the opposite direction as they draw up spending bills for the upcoming budget year. Democrats are sidestepping rules approved their first day in power in January to clearly identify "earmarks" -- lawmakers' requests for specific projects and contracts for their states -- in documents that accompany spending bills. Rather than including specific pet projects, grants and contracts in legislation as it is being written, Democrats are following an order by the House Appropriations Committee chairman to keep the bills free of such earmarks until it is too late for critics to effectively challenge them. Rep. David Obey, D-Wis., says those requests for dams, community grants and research contracts for favored universities or hospitals will be added spending measures in the fall. That is when House and Senate negotiators assemble final bills to send to President Bush. Such requests total billions of dollars. As a result, most lawmakers will not get a chance to oppose specific projects as wasteful or questionable when the spending bills for various agencies get their first votes in the full House in June. The House-Senate compromise bills due for final action in September cannot be amended and are subject to only one hour of debate, precluding challenges to individual projects. Obey insists he is reluctantly taking the step because Appropriations Committee members and staff have not had enough time to fully review the 36,000 earmark requests that have flooded the committee. The committee has been absorbed with writing a catchall spending bill cleaning up unfinished budget business from last year and the just-completed Iraq war spending bill. "It's going to take weeks to get that screening done and I'm the person that has to sign off," Obey told his colleagues at a committee meeting just before Memorial Day. "As long as I'm in charge, I'm going to make doggone sure that we do everything possible to screen every project." Obey also says many lawmakers requested additional time to get their official requests for back-home projects submitted for review. Budget watchdog groups who "scrub" appropriations bills for questionable provisions are outraged. "Who appointed him judge and jury of earmarks?" Tom Schatz, president of the Citizens Against Government Waste. "What that does is leave out the public's input." What Obey is doing runs counter to new rules that Democrats promised would make such spending decisions more open. Those rules made it clear that projects earmarked for federal dollars and their sponsors were to be made available to public scrutiny when appropriations bills are debated. The rules also require lawmakers requesting such projects to provide a written explanation describing their requests and a letter certifying that they or their spouse would not make any financial gain from them. The greater transparency was supposed to lead to more self-discipline on the part of lawmakers. While the great majority of home-state projects are easy to defend, there are often clunkers. For example, the "bridge to nowhere," a $223 million span in Alaska to link Ketchikan and Gravina Island, which has a population of about 50. Ultimately, after the bridge was widely mocked in news account, Congress decided to dump it. Obey has promised to cut congressional earmarks -- which the White House says totaled almost $19 billion in 2005 -- in half. Democrats, he says, will follow the new rules when earmarks are added to the bills, which in most cases will not be until House-Senate talks in September. Republicans say Democrats are skirting the new disclosure rules. Rep. Jerry Lewis of California, the Appropriations Committee's former chairman and now its top Republican, said Obey's move represents "a complete lack of transparency." Conservatives say they will employ guerrilla tactics during debates in the full House to push their point. "This is not more sunlight. This is actually keeping earmarks secret until it's too late to do anything about it," griped Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. "It will be impossible for anybody to challenge any of what will be thousands and thousands and thousands of earmarks." Some Senate Republicans, meanwhile, are threatening to block appropriations bills from going to House-Senate conference talks if that is when lawmakers' projects are going to be added. Democrats in the Senate -- including Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., who heads the Senate Appropriations Committee -- also are unhappy about Obey's move. Many do not like the prospect of waiting until September or October to learn which hometown projects they will get. ###
05.30.2007	Cites Senate immigration proposal, changes in IRC in becoming caucus’ 105th member VISTA, C.A. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista), a Member of the House Judiciary Committee, longtime advocate of strengthening border security and interior enforcement as well as expanding guest worker programs, today announced his decision to join the House Immigration Reform Caucus. “The House Immigration Reform Caucus is working diligently to show how the Senate plan will critically damage efforts to fix our broken immigration system,” said Rep. Darrell Issa. “Twenty years ago we had an amnesty without an effective enforcement and guest worker plan. Today, another with similar flaws is under consideration. Can we really expect illegal border crossings and visa overstays to stop if we continually reward this lawbreaking behavior?” “Since taking the leadership of the Immigration Reform Caucus earlier this year, Congressman Brian Bilbray (R-Carlsbad) has focused attention on efforts to stop illegal immigration and place a renewed emphasis on the importance of border security and employer enforcement,” said Issa. “The Immigration Reform Caucus has strengthened its position and has an important role to play in the debate this summer over immigration, border security, and the millions of illegal immigrants living in the United States.” “Congressman Issa understands that rewarding illegal immigrants with a path to citizenship is a recipe for disaster,” Rep. Brian Bilbray said. “You can’t say you’re going to fix a problem by repeating the failed policies of the past.” Bilbray added, “Congressman Issa has been a fierce opponent of amnesty policies like the Kennedy-Bush bill and his experience on the Judiciary Committee working on border security and immigration will be integral to the IRC’s efforts to stop their bill from moving forward,” he continued. Since taking office in 2001, Rep. Darrell Issa has fought for greater interior enforcement including the resumption of the immigration sweeps conducted by the Border Patrol’s Mobile Patrol Unit and highlighted the failure of Federal authorities to prosecute and deter alien smugglers in the San Diego region. ###
05.24.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa, last night, voted to pass six bipartisan veterans bills improving mental and physical health care, vocational education, and services outreach. “This legislation expands healthcare options for veterans and adds funding to proactive efforts to find and reach those in need of assistance,” said Issa an Army veteran. “I will continue my efforts to identify and bring resources to address problems facing returning servicemembers, our veterans, and their families.” Provisions in the six veterans’ bills: · Creates state grants for agencies assisting with outreach and assistance of benefit claims· Establishes a new national veterans cemetery in Colorado Springs· Extends veteran eligibility for Veterans Administration health care from two years to five years after return from combat – this will help veterans get care for conditions like posttraumatic stress disorder that are often not immediately apparent· Expands chiropractic care to all Veterans Administration medical centers by 2011· Requires the Veterans Administration to screen veterans for Traumatic Brain Injury· Allows injured service members, before discharge, to receive vocational education benefits while receiving health treatment – current law does not provide such benefits prior to discharge H.Res.392, H.R. 67, H.R. 1660, H.R. 612, H.R. 1470, H.R. 2199, and H.R. 2239, according to the Congressional Budget Office, in totality, will cost $302 million over the period 2007 - 2012. Representative Issa’s support of these bills follows his March 29th support of the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act, H.R. 1538, enhancing military medical services and Veterans Administration personnel. ###
05.24.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ron Young, General Manager of the Elsinore Valley Municipal Water District (EVMWD), today urged the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Water and Power to approve legislation, H.R. 31, authored by Rep. Darrell Issa and supported by Reps. Ken Calvert and Mary Bono. H.R. 31 would authorize the Secretary of the Interior to participate in the design, planning, and construction of water recycling and distribution facilities in the Elsinore Valley Municipal Water District (EVMWD). The legislation authorizes $12.5 million in federal funding. “Our water resources in Southwest Riverside County must continue to meet demand in a time of rapid growth and development in our area,” said Rep. Darrell Issa who introduced General Manager Ron Young before the Subcommittee. “Recycled water projects are an efficient way of developing and expanding these resources.” Water demand within EVMWD’s service area has grown rapidly due to new development and population growth. EVMWD expects water demand to more than double by 2020. As a result, EVMWD has sought ways to use recycled water to offset limited sources of potable water supply. Developing the Wildomar Recycled Water project and the Alberhill Wastewater Reclamation Facilities will create approximately 4,500 acre feet a year in new water. “The need for projects that provide additional recycled water have become particularly important due to dwindling imported water supplies. In addition, the economics of these types of projects are less than half the cost of future imported water costs.” Young told the Subcommittee in testimony. “I urge your speedy favorable action on H.R. 31 so final planning and design can begin on this project that is so vital to the well being of our District and the region.” H.R. 31 is currently awaiting action by the House Committee on Natural Resources. ###
05.24.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Democrat Majority on the House Rules Committee, last night, rejected an amendment offered by Rep. Darrell Issa to close a loophole that allows lobbyists for state and local governments and tribes to provide Members of Congress and their staff with gifts. The House Rules Committee rejected Rep. Issa’s amendment to H.R. 2316, the “Honest Leadership and Open Government Act of 2007” on a party line 4-7 vote. “Local and State governments ask Members to request many of the largest and most expensive earmarks like the ‘bridge to nowhere’ every fiscal year,” said Rep. Issa. “Even if these projects have merit, making these requests doesn’t require that local tax dollars be used to purchase meals and other gifts for Members.” Under current rules, public universities may offer expensive sports tickets and other gifts to Members of Congress while private universities may not. Local and State governments, including institutions like public universities, currently have no specific restrictions on gifts that can be offered to Members of Congress and their staffs. Current rules have also not closed the “Jack Abramoff loophole” whereby lobbyists for private interests can wine and dine Members of Congress on the tab of their state and local government clients. Last year, then Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi wrote to Speaker Dennis Hastert on the issue of lobby reform. Her letter, dated April 21, 2006, stated in part, "The House of Representatives is supposed to be a marketplace of ideas, and any debate on open government must not restrict the discussion of serious proposals…I am calling on you to you use your authority as Speaker to direct the Rules Committee to report an unrestricted rule on lobby reform." Nonetheless, the Democrats last night rejected 43 out of 48 amendments offered by Members for consideration by the full House of Representatives. ###
05.23.2007	Calls for prohibition on importation and sale of Chinese products using HCFCsWASHINGTON, D.C. – A hearing by the Full Oversight and Government Reform Committee on the environmental impact of the Montreal Protocol, today, revealed alarming information about Chinese manipulation of international carbon markets due to a loophole in the flawed Kyoto Protocol. “China is exploiting the flawed Kyoto Protocol and the environment to position itself to make billions of dollars off efforts by the international community to clean-up our air,” said Rep. Darrell Issa, ranking member of the Subcommittee on Domestic Policy. The revelation at the hearing followed a question posed by Rep. Issa, who asked the panel of experts if China was exploiting flaws in international emissions treaties for financial gain. Mr. Alan Thornton, Executive Director of the Environmental Investigation Agency (EIA), an international nongovernmental organization with expertise on the Montreal Protocol and Dr. Mack McFarland an Environmental Fellow with DuPont Fluorproducts, who testified before the committee, confirmed that China is gaming the international carbon credit system. As explained at the hearing, the Chinese produce excess quantities of HCFCs (hydro chlorofluorocarbons – chemicals commonly used as refrigerants), which is permissible under both the Kyoto and Montreal Protocols. The HCFCs release HFC-23, which is a regulated emission under the Kyoto Protocol. The Chinese then “capture” the HFC-23 emission. Over the course of 5 years, it will cost the Chinese an estimated $135 million to capture the harmful emissions – but using the loophole, the Chinese are able to sell the carbon credits they “earned” through this clean-up for literally billions of dollars in the international carbon market. Likely due to this perverse incentive created by conflicting rules in the Montreal and Kyoto Protocols, China has been ramping up their production of HCFCs to maximize emission levels by 2016. Under the terms of the Montreal Protocol, permissible emissions levels of HCFCs will be frozen at 2016 levels until 2040. According to the testimony of Mr. Allan Thornton, “Under Kyoto’s Clean Development Mechanism, developing countries can earn Certified Emission Reduction Credits (CER’s) for the destruction of a chemical known as HFC-23. This carbon credit can then be sold on the global carbon market.” He estimated that “the cost of capturing and destroying all eligible HFC-23 emissions through 2012 is $135 million, but the value of the HFC-23 CERs on the carbon market through 2012 is approximately $6.4 billion.” Issa, together with Ranking Member Tom Davis (R-Va.), last week requested that the Government Accountability Office provide information on domestic emission offset programs and mechanisms for ensuring their credibility. “This is a glaring flaw within the structure of the international carbon market. China is literally paid to pollute,” said Rep. Issa. “The United States should prohibit the importation and sale of Chinese products that use HCFCs from entering the U.S. market.” ###
05.22.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista), who for over three years has championed the effort to increase efforts and resources to prosecute “coyotes” who smuggle aliens into the United States for profit, today, supported legislation that provides mandatory minimum sentences for smuggling convictions. Issa first introduced legislation to create mandatory minimum sentences for alien smugglers in June 2005. In 2006, these provisions were included in the House Border Security Enhancement Act that was approved by the House of Representatives but never became law. “This legislation will enhance sentences for smugglers, tightens statutes to help prosecutors, and places a new emphasis in fighting the criminal cartels that flaunt our immigration laws for profit,” said Issa who serves of the House Judiciary Committee. “Toughening laws to eliminate loopholes and stiffening penalties alone will not stop human trafficking cartels,” added Issa. “The Department of Justice should adopt a zero tolerance policy for alien smuggling and the Congress must fund this effort.” Since information was first brought to Rep. Issa’s attention in December 2003 that repeat offender alien smugglers were routinely released without being prosecuted by the then U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California Carol Lam, Issa has fought to bring the attention of the Congress, the Justice Department, and the President to the problem on the border. In 2005, Congressman Issa successfully obtained an annual authorization of $5 million to specifically target prosecution of coyotes through 2009. H.R. 2399 was approved today by a vote of 412 to 0 with 6 abstentions. The legislation now heads to the Senate for consideration. ###
05.17.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) today made the following statement on the announced Senate immigration plan: “The Senate proposal outlined today contains a number of welcome enforcement provisions, immigration reforms, and strategies for addressing guest worker needs and stopping illegal immigration. These provisions, however, are compromised by a sweeping amnesty proposal that places illegal aliens in line ahead of those around the world who wait patiently in their home countries to emigrate to the United States legally. Many immigrants currently come to the U.S. legally to fill temporary job needs – a blanket grant of permanent status to those here illegally makes little sense.” ###
05.16.2007	Ranking Member Davis, Rep. Issa call for hearing following significant developments, including resignation of MMS Director Johnnie Burton WASHINGTON, D.C. –Ranking Member Tom Davis (R-Va.) and Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) today called on House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Henry Waxman (D-Calif.) and Subcommittee on Domestic Policy Chairman Dennis Kucinich (D-Ohio) to resume the committee’s investigation of mismanagement and ethical lapses involving flawed 1998 and 1999 oil and natural gas deepwater leases issued during the Clinton administration. “We are now five months into the 110th Congress and have not had a single hearing despite a number of significant developments,” wrote Davis, Republican leader of the full committee, and Issa, ranking member on the Domestic Policy Subcommittee. “We are concerned that the interruption of this oversight work may negate opportunities for reform and recovery of owed royalties.” In 2006, the full committee and the Subcommittee on Energy and Resources held five hearings on the Interior Department’s Minerals and Management Service (MMS). Since the last hearing in September, the inspector general of the Department of Interior has delivered reports detailing a dysfunctional MMS, the director of MMS, Johnnie Burton, has resigned, and the Government Accountability Office (GAO) has confirmed that the U.S. Government already has lost $1 billion and may lose as much as $9.8 billion over the life of the leases. The letter asks for a resumption of the investigation that exposed the culture of mismanagement and ethical lapses that led to the faulty leases. “In the 109th Congress, this investigation was conducted in a non-partisan manner with bipartisan support,” Davis and Issa wrote. “We urge a resumption of this oversight and, specifically, a hearing to address pertinent questions following the resignation of Director Burton and the conclusions of the Inspector General.” The text of the letter follows below: May 16, 2007 The Honorable Henry A. WaxmanChairmanOversight and Government Reform Committee2157 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Dennis J. KucinichChairmanSubcommittee on Domestic Policy2445 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Waxman and Chairman Kucinich: In the 109th Congress, the Interior Department’s Minerals and Management Service (MMS) was the subject of five investigative hearings by the Full Government Reform Committee and the Subcommittee on Energy and Resources focusing on flawed 1998 and 1999 oil and natural gas deepwater leases issued during the Clinton Administration. These hearings exposed a culture of mismanagement, ethical lapses, and a cover-up at MMS under both the Clinton and Bush Administrations that will cost the Federal government billions of dollars in lost revenues. We are now five months into the 110th Congress and have not had a single hearing despite a number of significant developments. We are concerned that the interruption of this oversight work may negate opportunities for reform and recovery of owed royalties. In response to a request made by a number of Members of Congress and Senators the Government Accountability Office (GAO) on April 12, 2007, confirmed that the U.S. Government has already lost $1 billion and may lose as much as $9.8 billion or more over the life of the leases. Last week, the Department of the Interior announced the resignation of Minerals and Management Service Director Johnnie Burton – an official whose sworn testimony in front of the Subcommittee on Energy and Resources was contradicted by subsequent investigations. The Department of the Interior, however, stated that Ms. Burton’s departure was not related to the debacle involving flawed deepwater leases. While the Government Accountability Office has initiated a top to bottom review of MMS following a request from us, we continue to be concerned about the immediate direction of MMS and the reform recommendations that have already been made by the Inspector General. Questions of particular importance include: What is being done and what progress has been made in recovering revenues uncollected due to flaws in 1998 and 1999 deepwater leases? What reforms in MMS have been put in place following the recommendations of the Department of the Interior Inspector General? Responding to the allegation made by the Department’s own Inspector General that, “short of a crime, anything goes at the highest levels of the Department of the Interior,” who has since been held accountable for mistakes and ethical lapses at MMS? In the 109th Congress, this investigation was conducted in a non-partisan manner with bipartisan support. We urge a resumption of this oversight and, specifically, a hearing to address pertinent questions following the resignation of Director Burton and the conclusions of the Inspector General. Sincerely, Tom DavisRanking Member Oversight and Government Reform Committee Darrell IssaRanking MemberSubcommittee on Domestic Policy ###
05.10.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa, today, made the following statement regarding the midnight passage of the amendment by Rep. Susan Davis in the House Armed Services Committee jeopardizing the agreed upon alignment of the Foothill South Toll Road: “I adamantly oppose the Davis amendment which stripped out legislative language I worked to pass into law in 2001 to protect the preferred alignment of the Foothill South Toll Road from legislation being considered in the California State Legislature that sought to block its construction on land owned by the federal government. I also urged Rep. Sanchez to oppose the Davis amendment.” “While Rep. Susan Davis, Rep. Loretta Sanchez, and I discussed a proposed amendment to the Foothill South Toll Road, no agreement was reached and no language was ever shown to me. I have told Rep. Davis that my first priority is protecting the mission of Camp Pendleton. Her amendment, if it stands, threatens to deny the residents of Southern California the benefits of an important regional transportation asset and could result in further encroachment on Camp Pendleton and its critical military mission. “In discussions with Reps. Sanchez and Davis, I made clear that federal property, even if leased to the state, remains federal and not state property. The preferred alignment of the Foothill Toll Road is the result of years of negotiations among the affected communities, the Marine Corps and other interested parties and has been vetted through the established state and federal environmental review process. “The intervention of Reps. Davis and Sanchez to harm a transportation project and a military installation far outside their respective districts is unusual, unwelcome, and ill-informed. It does nothing to serve the interests of the residents in the impacted communities and much to advance the agenda of the outside special interests they serve. “I will continue to work closely with the Marine Corps, the Transportation Corridor Agency and my colleague Rep. Calvert to turn back the Davis amendment and preserve the preferred alignment for Foothill South.” ###
05.08.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa, the Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Domestic Policy, made the following statement on the resignation of Minerals Management Service (MMS) Director Johnnie Burton: “This departure creates an opportunity to change a culture and history of failed management for the agency that, on behalf of the American people, collects royalties on oil and other resources. Problems at MMS may have cost American taxpayers billions. “In a meeting I chaired, Johnnie Burton told the Subcommittee on Energy and Natural Resources last September that she first learned about flawed 1998 and 1999 leases in late 2005 or early 2006. An investigation by the Inspector General of the Department of the Interior, however, found that Ms. Burton was informed of this massive mistake in early 2004. Had she acted at that time, MMS would have had far more tools to fix the problem and recover royalties owed to the Federal Government. “Investigations have shown that MMS and the Department of the Interior have been plagued by management problems and, according to the Department’s own Inspector General, up to the current Secretary’s tenure, ‘short of a crime, anything goes at the highest levels of the Department of the Interior.’ “The Department of the Interior is in need of reform. I will continue to press my Democratic counterparts on the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform to resume hearings on problems in the Department of the Interior to ensure that serious and fundamental problems are addressed.” Serving as Chairman of the Government Reform Subcommittee on Energy and Natural Resources from 2005 until 2006, Rep. Issa led a thorough investigation of flawed deepwater leases signed by MMS officials in 1998 and 1999. ###
05.07.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives, today by voice vote, adopted legislation authored by Rep. Darrell Issa to authorize the use of federal funds to construct a water pressurization system that will deliver water from Eastern Municipal Water District’s reclamation plants to area residents. When constructed, the project will provide greater local protection from drought and reduce the district’s need to import water. “The area that the Eastern Municipal Water District provides water for is one of the fastest growing in the country,” said Rep. Issa. “Riverside County is facing constantly increasing pressure to find new sustainable ways to meet the areas water supply needs and to accommodate future growth. It is critical that Congress supports projects like this that will lead to an increased use of reclaimed water, especially in areas such as Southern California where the threat of shortages and drought are almost always present.” H.R. 30 authorizes the appropriation of up to $12 million for the federal share of the project up to 25 percent of the total cost. The Bureau of Reclamation estimates that the project will cost $48 million and it expects the project to take 10 to 15 years to build. H.R. 30 now moves to the Senate for consideration. ###
04.26.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congresswoman Lois Capps (D-CA) and Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) introduced the Hass Avocado Quality Assurance Act. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) also introduced a companion bill today in the Senate. The legislation would protect consumer interests and facilitate competition by ensuring that imported Hass avocados meet the same fruit maturity requirement that is currently imposed on California-grown Hass avocados under state law. The vast majority of all domestically produced Hass avocados for the U.S. commercial market are grown in the State of California. California avocados are inspected by the State Department of Food and Agriculture to ensure compliance with minimum maturity and size and weight requirements set forth in State regulation. Currently, this critical quality standard is not applicable to imported avocados. As a result, immature imported avocados are being sold to consumers in the United States. The lack of a uniform maturity requirement for imported avocados negatively impacts demand for all Hass avocados because immature avocados are unpalatable, and consumers who purchase and consume immature avocados are more likely to cease buying all avocados. The Hass Avocado Quality Assurance Act seeks to address this inequity by mandating minimum maturity standards for all Hass avocado imports. Such legislation will make certain a consistently high quality supply of Hass avocados that will benefit California’s avocado growers and consumers throughout the United States. “I am pleased to be introducing this common sense legislation that will protect the interests of avocado consumers and growers,” said Rep. Capps. “This bill will ensure that consumers have access to the highest quality Hass avocados and it will also level the playing field by promoting fair competition among domestic and international Hass avocado growers. This is a win-win situation for avocado consumers and growers and I hope that this bill moves quickly through the legislative process.” “I am proud that California produces the highest quality avocados in the world,” said Rep. Issa. “Consumers expect a high quality avocado when they see the name ‘Hass’ and Congress needs to ensure that immature and low-quality imports don’t harm this sought after variety.” Senator Boxer said, “Imported avocados should be held to the same quality standards as those produced in California to ensure consistent quality. This bill promotes accountability for all avocado farmers at home and abroad, and American consumers will benefit as a result.” The Hass Avocado Quality Assurance Act enjoys strong support from California avocado growers, including the California Avocado Commission. ###
04.18.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa today made the following statement on the “Patent Reform Act of 2007” introduced by Rep. Howard Berman. The bill seeks to reform many of the nation’s patent laws and is the result of years of negotiations across the patent community. Patent reform is an important step to keep the United States a leader in innovation. “As the holder of 37 U.S. patents, I can say from experience that our patent laws need amending,” said Rep. Issa a Member of the Subcommittee on Courts, the Internet and Intellectual Property who cosponsored the legislation. “While I continue to believe that further revisions may strengthen reform efforts, this bill is an excellent starting point for determining how patents can best support innovation in the United States.” ###
03.29.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Members of Congress are required to file annual personal financial disclosure reports detailing their personal financial interests. Although Members are not required to publish their annual financial disclosures on their websites, I have chosen to do so in the interest of making these important public records readily accessible. Click Here to View the Disclosure Report: http://issa.house.gov/index.cfm?FuseAction=Files.View&FileStore_id=259 ### Related Resources:Congressman Darrell Issa 2006 Financial Disclosure (PDF 732.8 KBs)
03.29.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista) today hailed the passage of H.R. 1538, the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act, to ensure that American Marines, Soldiers, Sailors and Airmen injured in the line of duty will receive the care they deserve when they return home. The legislation passed by a vote of 426-0. “It is not acceptable for us to ask the men and women of our armed forces for service in America’s time of need and not provide adequate support in theirs,” said Issa, an Army veteran who recently toured recovery facilities on Camp Pendleton. The Wounded Warrior Assistance Act authorizes resources to address well-chronicled problems at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center and other pressing needs. Provisions of the bill will enhance military medical services, personnel actions, and other daily life issues. Specifically, additional staff will be provided to guide injured service members through the recovery and rehabilitation process, bureaucratic red tape will be reduced through administrative streamlining, and communication among pertinent agencies and the families will become a high priority. According to the Congressional Budget Office, if fully funded the legislation will require $315 million over the 2008-2012 period. To ensure prompt change and ongoing compliance, additional patient advocates will be provided to wounded service members. Additionally, the Department of Defense will establish a toll-free hotline for the public to share concerns. On March 15, Rep. Issa called for public feedback regarding shortcomings in military health facilities aiding wounded military. Constituents are asked to contact his Vista District Office at 760-599-5000 or via email at militaryheroes@mail.house.gov. ###
03.27.2007	According to Article I, Section 9, Clause 7 of the U.S. Constitution, “No money shall be drawn from the Treasury but in consequence of appropriations made by law.” Every year, Congress approves a budget that outlines federal spending. After Congress agrees to this budget outline, the House Appropriations committee then moves forward in deciding what and how much should be allocated for specific programs, agencies, and other federal needs. As a part of this process, the House Appropriations Committee asks all Members of the House to submit, for consideration by the Committee, the requests they feel may be important for their district, state, and the United States. The appropriations process is a multi-step approach, by which the Congress evaluates the merits of requests for funding. Only a small fraction of project requests the Appropriations Committee receives from Members will be funded. Gaining the support of a Member of Congress to ask for consideration for a specific funding request is an important first step in the appropriations process but does not guarantee any level of funding. Every year, Congressman Issa works as an advocate for requests from local governments, agencies, schools, businesses, and others that have relevance to the work of the federal government and that he believes have an opportunity to win federal funding support. Competition for federal funding is fierce and Congressman Issa works to help those in the 49th District and California make the best possible case for why their project should have federal support. The largest number of requests come from localities, cities, and other public agencies seeking funds for roads, flood control, and other public infrastructure projects. FY 2008 will mark the second consecutive year Rep. Issa has disclosed on his website all appropriations projects requests. The Sunlight Foundation gave Rep. Issa’s website the highest rating for transparency of any website in the California delegation https://www.sunlightlabs.com/research/sites/results/. Rep. Issa, according to the Sunlight Foundation’s Congressional Website Investigation Project was one of only three Members of Congress to disclose his appropriations project requests for FY 2007 on his website. The following are the requests for consideration Congressman Issa has submitted to the Appropriations Committee for FY 2008: Agriculture Project Location: Perris, CA Project Requested By: Eastern Municipal Water District Project: San Jacinto Agriculture Groundwater Exchange Project Project Description: This project will provide 7,000 acre-feet of recycled water to 3,400 acres of citrus crop resulting in a savings of 7,000 acre-feet of groundwater production in an area where the groundwater basin is in overdraft. In addition to easing the groundwater overdraft condition, the project will provide a cost effective and reliable alternative water supply to citrus farmers ensuring the continuation of agriculture as a vital force in the area’s economy. The project will expand the use of recycled water on farms to establish it as a viable use for agriculture thus helping the overall effort of promoting recycled water on farms to establish water use in California. Projects such as this will help reduce Southern California’s dependence on imported water from the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta and the Colorado River. Requested Amount: $1,000,000 --------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: Riverside, CA Project Requested By: Second Harvest Food Bank serving Riverside & San Bernardino Counties Project: Second Harvest Food Bank Project Description: The funding requested will be used for the expansions of the food warehouse facility in order to increase distribution and improve hunger programs to children, seniors, and homeless populations. Requested Amount: $1,000,000 --------------------------------------------------------------------------- Commerce, Justice, Science Project Location: San Diego, CA Project Requested By: University of California, San Diego Project: California Spatial Reference Center Project Description: The funding requested will be used for a state-of-the-art positioning system to enhance public health and safety, preserve valuable resources, and improve business productivity in California. Accurate and dependable geographic data is essential to a vast array of unique and valuable contemporary applications including: engineering drawings of our infrastructure, modernized maps for national defense and homeland security, and navigation systems used in personal and commercial transportation systems. Requested Amount: $2,000,000 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Project Location: Riverside County, CA Project Requested By: Riverside County Sheriff’s Department Project: Riverside County Gang Enforcement and Analysis Project Description: The funding requested will be used for crime analysis staff and equipment to support existing gang enforcement teams. Requested Amount: $1,800,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: San Diego County, CA Project Requested By: San Diego County Sheriff’s Department Project: San Diego County Sheriff’s Department Communications Upgrades Project Description: The funding requested will be used for upgrading communications networks and increase interoperability with other emergency agencies. Requested Amount: $1,330,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: Perris, CA Project Requested By: City of Perris Project: Gang Prevention Program Project Description: The funding requested will be used to expand the City of Perris’ gang prevention program and after school program. Requested Amount: $250,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- DefenseProject Location: San Diego County, CA Project Requested By: California State University San Diego Project: Center for Commercialization of Advanced Technology (CCAT) Joint University-Industry-Government Project Project Description: CSU San Diego, in collaboration with the Space and Naval Warfare Systems Center San Diego, are seeking funding to continue the Center for Commercialization of Advanced Technology (CCAT) program. This unique and proven program successfully facilitates the rapid transfer of technologies for both Homeland Defense and Security from the laboratory to the government and commercial marketplace, while concurrently promoting new businesses, facilitating economic development, and providing a training ground for the next generation of entrepreneurs. Requested Amount: $10,000,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: San Diego, CA Project Requested By: University of California, San Diego Project: Defense Against Explosive Effects/Explosive Loading Laboratory and Field Testing Program Project Description: Under the Combating Terrorism Technology Support Office/Technical Support Working Group’s national Blast Mitigation program, the New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology’s Energetic Materials Research and Testing Center and the University of California, San Diego (UCSD) are determining the vulnerability of structural components and systems to terrorist attack. Blast mitigation and hardening optimization strategies using both retrofit and new construction methods and materials are being validated and based on the results of field and laboratory testing. Full-scale live explosive field testing in combination with full-scale explosive loading laboratory tests with a blast load simulator are essential to develop the necessary baseline data. Requested Amount: $8,000,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: San Diego County, CA Project Requested By: U.S. Display Consortium Project: Roll-to-Roll (R2R) Microelectronics in Support of FDI, Oceanside Project Description: Through the Flexible Display Initiative (FDI), the US Army is developing engineering demonstrators and prototypes of lightweight, rugged and conformable flexible displays for use in the Army’s Transformation programs. The US Display Consortium is under contract to ARL to organize the commercial display industry to develop the materials and supply chain required to enable the volume production of these displays and other types of flexible microelectronics products. Requested Amount: $7,500,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: San Diego County, CA Project Requested By: Cubic Project: Very High-Speed RF Communications For Ship-To-Ship Networking Project Description: Mobile in-theater and maritime platforms require wideband RF connections to support tactical edge networking. Aircraft carriers and large-deck amphibious assault ships are being equipped with state-or-the-art high-speed data links to provide air-to-ship connections. This same equipment, with minor modifications, can support high-speed ship-to-ship links as well. The military utility of the new high-speed capability to operating forces is endorsed by the Third Fleet Commander. Requested Amount: $5,000,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: San Diego County, CA Project Requested By: BAE Systems Project: GRIDLOCK Project Description:Gridlock CGS each provide unique approaches to rapid generation of multiple aim points, satisfying near term precision weapon requirements. Gridlock enables rapid targeting from tactical and national imagery by creating “Smart Images.” These images have elevation data unobtrusively imbedded so that users extract target data from each mouse click. The Gridlock Smart Image fits neatly into CGS’s SIG functionality suite as an efficient stand-alone imagery source. Requested Amount: $5,000,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: Vista, CA Project Requested By: CERCOM Ceramics Project: Production of Turtle Shell Armor for E-SAPI and Future AP Threats Project Description: BAE Systems Advanced Ceramics, Inc. has demonstrated true multi-hit capability for the next generation body armor threat using a turtle shell concept at E-SAPI weights. This accomplishment is important because the next generation body armor threat is significantly greater than the AP round currently specified for E-SAPI. Instead of a hardened steel projectile the future body armor threat will likely be a tungsten carbide core projectile that will make present-day solutions impractical because of weight considerations.Requested Amount: $4,000,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: Vista, CA Project Requested By: Aqualung Project: Full Range Oxygen Gas System (F.R.O.G.S.) Closed-Circuit Oxygen Rebreather Project Description: All US Special Forces employ combat divers whose covert missions depend on the closed-circuit diving apparatus that does not produce bubbles. The US Army Special Operations Command seeks to replace its current closed-circuit diving apparatus, the MK 25, because of its low performance , low availability of spare parts, and high maintenance costs in comparison to the newer Aqua Lung Full Range Oxygen Gas System closed-circuit diving rebreather. The navy Experimental Dive Unit conducted a quick-look test in October 2003 and a full test in October 2005. Requested Amount: $2,000,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: Lake Elsinore, CA Project Requested By: Vertigo Project: High-pressure air-beam shelter cost reduction technology improvements Project Description: The funding requested would be used to enhance air-beam shelter cost efficiency to match the already proven capability in the field. Reducing costs will speed deployment of air-beam technology for use in situations requiring extraordinary responsiveness and immediate shelter for myriad applications. Sheltering options range from aircraft hangers to personnel shelters, including command-and-control support. Requested Amount: $1,800,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Energy and Water Project Location: Temecula, CA Project Requested By: Riverside County Flood Control District & City of Temecula Project: Murrieta Creek Flood Control Project Project Description: The Murrieta Creek Flood Control Project will provide 100-year flood control, environmental restoration, and recreation benefits to southwest Riverside County including the Cities of Temecula and Murrieta. This request will complete the second phase of a four phase flood control project. It will improve 7 miles of Murrieta Creek from Old Town Temecula to Tenaja Road in Murrieta, which will allow water to flow safely through the cities of Temecula and Murrieta and create a sanctuary for native plants and animals. The Riverside County Flood Control District is overseeing the project with the US Army Corps of Engineers. Requested Amount: $13,000,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: Oceanside, CA Project Requested By: City of Oceanside/Army Corps of Engineers Project: San Luis Rey River Flood Protection: Riverbed/Vegetation Clearing Plan Project Description: During the construction phase of the river project, all vegetation was removed. The current level of vegetation within the project areas is all natural growth. The extent of the density of the vegetation has reduced the level of flood protection to below an acceptable level by the Corps. The original flood control project would have provided a 250-year level of protection. The current level of protection is far below the 100-year level of protection. During a 100-year storm, the expected flow in the river would be 50,000 cubic feet per second. During the storms in 2005, the river flows were approximately 25,000 cubic feet per second, which resulted in significant local flooding and public infrastructure damage. Requested Amount: $7,700,000 --------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: Perris, CA Project Requested By: Eastern Municipal Water District Project: South Perris Water Supply Desalination Project Project Description: This project will produce potable water from otherwise unusable groundwater resources through the construction of a three million-gallon per day reverse osmosis desalter, feed-water pipelines, and brackish water wells. Requested Amount: $2,000,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: Oceanside, CA Project Requested By: City of Oceanside Project: Seawater Desalination Facility Project Project Description: This project would improve the city of Oceanside’s existing Mission Basin Desalting Facility in order to expand production of drinking water. Requested Amount: $2,000,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: Lake Elsinore, CA Project Requested By: Elsinore Valley Municipal Water District Project: Recycled Water Distribution Facility Project Description: This project will allow EVMWD to receive and deliver recycled water in coordination with Eastern Municipal Water District’s Temecula Valley Regional Water Reclamation Facility and the Rancho California’s Regional WRF to the Wildomar service area. Requested Amount: $500,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: Oceanside, CA Project Requested By: City of Oceanside Project: Shoreline Special Study Project Description: The project would develop a permanent solution for mitigating beach erosion and other impacts resulting from the construction of Camp Pendleton Harbor. Requested Amount: $400,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: Perris, CA Project Requested By: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers & City of Perris Project: San Jacinto River Watershed Study Project Description: This request will fund Phase I of the San Jacinto River Environmental Enhancement Program, which would provide for a feasibility study, Environmental Documentation and Preliminary Design for projects in this watershed. Requested Amount: $300,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: Riverside County, CA Project Requested By: Rancho California Water District Project: Recycled Water Expansion Feasibility Study Project Description: This project will relieve 144 cubic feet per second of peak demand from the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California regional treated water system and to relieve demands on the Colorado River and the CA Bay Delta. Requested Amount: $250,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Interior and Environment Project Location: Perris, CA Project Requested By: City of Perris/US Army Corps of Engineers Project: San Jacinto River Environmental Enhancement Program Project Description: The total project cost for the Phase I project, which provides for SJR Reach 3 improvements, is estimated to be $50M. An appropriation for Phase I of the SJREEP would provide for the Planning, Environmental Documentation and Preliminary Design of projects contained with Reach 3 of the San Jacinto River at the most critical locations. The proposed project is intended to provide for implementation of the City’s and Riverside County General Plans, which incorporate conservation and flood control improvements for the San Jacinto River and the Perris Valley Storm Drain. Requested Amount: $1,000,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: Quail Valley, Riverside County, CA Project Requested By: Elsinore Valley Municipal Water District Project: Quail Valley Septic System Conversion Project Project Description: EVMWD and the Eastern Municipal Water District are proposing to construct the necessary infrastructure so wastewater from Quail Valley is treated by the two Water Districts and the individual septic systems. Requested Amount: $1,000,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: Oceanside, CA Project Requested By: City of Oceanside Project: Water Reclamation Facility Project Description: The City of Oceanside will expand tertiary treatment facilities at the San Luis Rey Wastewater Treatment Plant to increase recycled water production, which will lessen demand for imported water from the Colorado and Sacramento-San Joaquin Rivers. Requested Amount: $990,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: Lake Elsinore, CA Project Requested By: Elsinore Valley Municipal Water District Project: Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System for Sewage Treatment Facilities Project Description: EVMWD will outfit sewer lift stations with advanced automation systems to enhance hydraulic reliability. The district has approximately 40 sewage lift stations which are currently operated by manual processes. Requested Amount: $500,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: Lake Elsinore, CA Project Requested By: City of Lake Elsinore Project: Lake Elsinore/San Jacinto River Watershed Improvements Study Project Description: This project would continue the City’s comprehensive water quality monitoring program and focus studies to support future policy decisions for workable solutions for the rapidly developing watershed. Requested Amount: $500,000 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Labor, Health & Human Services, and Education Project Location: San Diego County, CA Project Requested By: California State University, San Diego Project: California’s Regional Biotechnology Workforce Training Facilities Project Description: The CSU program for Education and Research in Biotechnology seeks funding to accelerate the creation of three regional biotechnology workforce training centers in order to address the need for innovative applied training for a specialized workforce. The centers would also meet other regional needs, such as training members of the first responder community in biotechnology-related procedures. Requested Amount: $6,000,000----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: Oceanside, CA Project Requested By: Mira Costa Community College District Project: Corpsmen/Medics in to Nursing Program Project Description: Mira Costa College is developing a national model program to meet the educational needs of both active-duty and exiting Navy corpsmen and Army medics. The project creates military-specific assessment and instructional tools that will acknowledge the service members’ military training while preparing them to meet state licensing requirements to enter the civilian nursing field. Requested Amount: $2,350,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Transportation and Housing & Urban Development Project Location: Lake Elsinore, CA Project Requested By: CALTRANS/City of Lake Elsinore Project: I-15/Railroad Canyon Road Interchange Improvements Project Description: The funding will be used for right-of-way acquisition for an improved interchange on I-15 at Railroad Canyon Road, a connector route between I-15 and I-215 in Southwest Riverside County. The level of service at intersections adjacent to this interchange is rated Service-F. Requested Amount: $8,000,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: Temecula, CA Project Requested By: CALTRANS/City of Temecula Project: French Valley Parkway/I-15 Over-crossing & Interchange Project Project Description: The project would provide a new southbound off-ramp from I-15, addition of an auxiliary lane between French Valley Parkway and the existing southbound 79N off-ramp, widening of bridge at Santa Gertrudis Creek and expansion of Winchester Road southbound off-ramp. Project will mitigate operational and capacity deficiencies along the I-15 corridor in southwest Riverside County. Requested Amount: $5,000,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: Oceanside, CA Project Requested By: SANDAG & City of Oceanside Project: State Route 76, Melrose Drive to I-15 Project Description: This project will widen and realign SR 76 between Melrose Drive in the City of Oceanside and I-15 in San Diego County. This route connects I-5 and I-15 and Vista, Fallbrook and Bonsall. Average daily traffic ranges from 28,000 to 43,000 vehicles, with traffic back-ups of up to three miles during peak periods, and accident rates that exceed the statewide average. Requested Amount: $3,000,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: San Diego, CA Project Requested By: SANDAG/City of San Diego Project: San Luis Rey Transit Center Project Description: The project is a 12-bay transit center anchoring a proposed mixed-use residential and retail development in North San Diego County. Requested Amount: $3,000,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: Vista, CA Project Requested By: SANDAG & City of Vista Project: West Vista Way Widening Project Project Description: The project will widen a two-mile segment of West Vista Way to relieve traffic congestion in the City of Vista. It will enhance capacity, relieve traffic congestion and improve mobility along West Vista Way and in the surrounding vicinity. Requested Amount: $2,000,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: Perris, CA Project Requested By: CALTRANS/City of Perris Project: I-215/Ramona Expressway Interchange Improvements Project Description: Project will add a turn lane to ease traffic volume on the off-ramp and at the intersection of the I-215 freeway and the Ramona Expressway. Requested Amount: $2,000,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Project Location: Temecula, CA Project Requested By: City of Temecula Project: Temecula Park and Ride Project Description: This project would design and construct at 220-space public parking facility with drive through ingress and egress, shelter structures, raised medians and perimeter landscaping. The facility will offer commuters direct access to the north and southbound transitions of I-15 and SR 79 South, and serve a large number of residents who currently commute to San Diego, Orange and San Bernardino counties. Requested Amount: $400,000 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ###
03.22.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa, today, following detailed examinations of Justice Department records by news media outlets including the Associated Press, New York Times, Los Angeles Times, San Diego Union-Tribune, the North County Times, and the Voice of San Diego released the following statement: “The campaign of innuendo and the conspiracy theories put forth by Sen. Chuck Schumer and Rep. Rahm Emmanuelon the dismissal of U.S. Attorneys has not produced evidence of any wrong doing in the dismissal of U.S. Attorneys. Sen. Schumer and Rep. Emmanuel have turned a blind eye to a failure to prosecute even those who traffic in human beings and misled the American people for partisan gains. They need to either stand by their assertion that failure to prosecute human smugglers is not serious or they need to retract their statements.” -- Rep. Darrell Issa 3/22/07 ********************************************************************************** "No one believes anymore these U.S. attorneys were fired for any good reason." -- Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-NY) -- Washington Post 3/5/07 "The White House and the Justice Department would like for us to believe that the firings of the U.S. Attorneys were based on job performance. This is the one time when I actually agree with them. It appears that Carol Lam was fired for doing her job. It's clear from the email sent by Mr. Sampson to the White House on May 11th, 2006 - the same day the Los Angeles Times reported that Lam's investigation into Duke Cunningham had been extended to Rep. Jerry Lewis -- that Carol Lam was investigating and prosecuting public corruption, and the Justice Department and the White House didn't like it." -- Rep. Rahm Emmanuel (D-IL) -- 3/14/07 ********************************************************************************** What Media Investigations Reveal: “Senate Democrats have asserted that [Lam] appears to have been removed because of her pursuit of Mr. Cunningham and other officials. The evidence … includes a May 2006 e-mail message from a top Justice Department official calling Ms. Lam ‘the real problem.’” “But the documents suggest that the ‘real problem’ mentioned in the message was related instead to complaints about her handling of immigration, which reached Justice Department officials even before the plan to oust several United States attorneys was conceived, in late 2004. Republican House members from California sent the first in a series of letters saying her office was failing to prosecute many people smuggling large numbers of immigrants.” -- The New York Times -- 3/21/07 “Internal e-mails released as a part of a congressional investigation show Justice Department officials conceded among themselves that they had ‘'some concerns about asserting that the SO Cal U.S. attorney's office has a strong record in this area.’The e-mail exchange -- between Associate Deputy Attorney General Lee Otis and other Justice officials in April 2006 -- is one of several contained in more than 3,000 pages of documents released over the past week.” -- Associated Press – 3/22/07 "’They're clapping like seals now that she's gone,’ said one federal official in San Diego, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he works closely with the U.S. attorney's office there. ‘The Border Patrol. Customs…. They couldn't be happier.’” -- LA Times on Carol Lam – 3/9/07 “At the same time Justice Department officials were crafting letters assuring lawmakers that then-U.S. Attorney Carol Lam of San Diego was ‘vigorously’ enforcing immigration laws, they privately questioned her prosecution philosophy, remarked that she ‘can't meet a deadline’ and suggested she be put ‘on a very short leash or be fired.’” -- San Diego Union-Tribune – 3/21/07 “Thousands of pages of Justice Department documents released Tuesday appear to support the Bush administration's claim that Lam's dismissal was rooted in dissatisfaction with her job performance. A recent analysis conducted by The Associated Press showed that between 2002, when Lam was appointed, and 2006, immigration prosecutions in San Diego dropped from 2,243 to 1,715.” -- North County Times – 3/22/07 “The documents indicate that Lam was not dismissed because of her pursuit of Cunningham and other high-profile corruption cases, instead pointing to her record on immigration prosecution.” -- VoiceofSanDiego.org – 3/21/07 ###
03.15.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa, last Saturday, paid a visit to Naval Hospital Camp Pendleton to hear directly from Marines recovering from wounds suffered in Iraq and Afghanistan about their recovery experience. Rep. Issa and key members of his staff toured the hospital and visited with doctors, staff, and patients at the Patient Services Center, the Physical Therapy Clinic, the Mental Health Clinic, the Postpartum Ward, the TRICARE Service Center, and the Patient Support Center. Congressman Issa also visited with Marines staying at the Camp Pendleton Wounded Warrior Clinic. The Wounded Warrior Project provides programs and services designed to ease the burdens of the wounded and their families, aid in the recovery process, and smooth their transition back to civilian life. “I understand that Naval Hospital Camp Pendleton has had difficulty recruiting neurologists and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder Counselors due to shortages of highly qualified individuals but I have not been told of Walter Reed-like problems here or at other military recovery facilities in San Diego,” said Issa. “I was shocked when I learned that servicemembers recovering from wounds were forced into terrible living conditions and their cases mishandled at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. I want to make sure any problems here in San Diego are quickly identified and addressed.” Congressman Issa is requesting that anyone with information about serious shortcomings in military health facilities helping wounded servicemembers bring these problems to his attention by contacting his Director of Constituent Services Amy Walker at 760-599-5000 or by e-mailing militaryheroes@mail.house.gov. ###
03.08.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa, today, made the following statement on the plan announced by the Democratic House Leadership to set conditions for a continued military deployment in Iraq and a deadline for withdrawal: “As the representative of Marines who have fought with extraordinary valor in Iraq, someone who has criticized the mistakes made by this Administration in Iraq, and a supporter of a broader diplomatic engagement throughout the Middle East, I am adamantly opposed to this plan for defeat,” said Issa. “The Democratic Leadership have outlined a set of meet-or-withdraw-goals for Iraq that will become a defacto battle plan for Al-Qaeda and other extremists. Our enemies will attempt to force our withdrawal and achieve victory by defeating the artificial goals set by this legislation.” “As the representative for Camp Pendleton who has fought to improve conditions on-base as well as improvements in healthcare for veterans, I find it incredibly offensive that Democrats would hold funding for real and immediate needs of military families and active duty personnel hostage by placing it in a measure that will clearly not be signed into law. It is a deplorable tactic that underscores the fact that Democrats recognize this bill is only for political purposes.” ###
03.06.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (CA-49), today, told Members of the House Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law that he, other Members of Congress, and U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein had expressed concerns to former U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California Carol Lam, the U.S. Attorney General, and President George W. Bush about the failure to prosecute human smugglers in the San Diego border region beginning in February 2004. “Last June, Senator Feinstein wrote to Attorney General Gonzales to share her similar concern that Carol Lam’s failure to prosecute most alien smugglers would endanger the lives of Border Patrol agents and bring even more violent smuggling syndicates to the California border region,” said Issa in testimony. “For three years, I and other members of Congress wrote Ms. Lam, the U.S. Attorney General, and the President asking that more be done to prosecute those who traffic in human beings. Only someone who believes that trafficking human beings isn’t a serious crime could look at Carol Lam’s record and see an area that does not deserve legitimate criticism.” “This hearing demonstrated that there were real and sound reasons for the removals. Some U.S. Attorneys had problems managing their offices while others did not effectively implement national policy priorities set by the Department of Justice. The Department of Justice detailed why each U.S. Attorney was removed from office,” added Issa after the hearing. Rep. Issa’s testimony follows below: Statement of Congressman Darrell Issa House Committee on the JudiciarySubcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law H.R. 580, “Restoring Checks and Balances in the Confirmation Process of U.S. Attorneys” March 6, 2007 Chairwoman Sanchez, Ranking Member Cannon, thank you for allowing me to join you today to share with you some of my experiences surrounding this hearing. I recognize that this hearing is about the removal of seven U.S. Attorneys, and the concerns of some members that President Bush will use an appointment process stipulated within the Patriot Act reauthorization. In my view, my colleagues with such concerns are putting the cart before the horse, because we have little reason to believe the President will abuse this temporary appointment procedure. To the contrary, the Administration has given me assurances that it plans to work with the Senate to fill the U.S. Attorney positions recently vacated. Beyond the legislation at hand, it seems the other key issues are whether or not U.S. Attorneys serve at the pleasure of the President, and beyond this point, whether or not any foundation existed for their removal. To the first issue, U.S. Attorneys absolutely serve at the pleasure of the President. The President and the Vice President are the only elected officials within the Administration, and every political appointee is an at-will employee. Period. Significantly, the U.S. Attorneys’ testimony states this point quite clearly. I will focus my testimony on the second issue, whether or not any foundation for removal existed, in my experience and knowledge of the US Attorney whose jurisdiction covered my congressional district. First of all, I would like to recognize Carol Lam for the many positive achievements during her service as U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California. It would be difficult to overstate the importance of her successful prosecution of Congressman Randy “Duke” Cunningham and other corrupt public officials in San Diego. U.S. Attorneys, however, are given a myriad of responsibilities, and are expected to prosecute many different criminal activities. People have taken notice of U.S. Attorney Lam’s prosecution of corrupt officials, and hopefully this has scared straight any would be profiteers of the public trust. That being said, I am afraid that criminal cartels that traffic in human beings are taking notice that they are less likely to be prosecuted in the San Diego Sector than other areas along the Southwest border. Last June, Senator Feinstein wrote to Attorney General Gonzales to share her similar concern that Carol Lam’s failure to prosecute most alien smugglers would endanger the lives of Border Patrol agents and bring even more violent smuggling syndicates to the California border region. I first wrote to Carol Lam about border crimes more than three years ago after learning from a reporter that her office had declined to prosecute an alien smuggler apprehended while transporting a car loaded with undocumented immigrants near Temecula, California, in my district. The smuggler, Antonio Amparo-Lopez, had attempted to escape the arresting Border Patrol agents and, upon capture, the Border Patrol learned that the smuggler had 21 known aliases and had been arrested and deported more than 20 times without ever having been prosecuted. I sought information from sources in the Border Patrol, and others in the law enforcement community, about what was really happening with border prosecutions. Border Patrol agents were forced to accept a reality in which smugglers knew what they could get away with. A smuggler knew he could drive a van full of illegal immigrants across the border without fear of any consequence other than being sent back to Mexico to try again. Smugglers who were American citizens faced no consequences at all. Border Patrol agents and others within the Department of Homeland Security would privately bring my office information about the problems with prosecutorial guidelines put into effect by U.S. Attorney Carol Lam created in their efforts to secure the border near San Diego from organized smuggling cartels. In May 2006, my office released to the press a memo prepared by a senior source within the Border Patrol that detailed how Carol Lam’s policies adversely affected efforts to stop smuggling syndicates. According to the memo, only 6 percent of 289 smuggling suspects caught by Border Patrol agents from the El Cajon station east of San Diego in the 12 months ending in September 2004 were prosecuted. In August of 2006, former Judiciary Committee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner and I had consecutive meetings with the Border Patrol's San Diego Sector Chief Darryl Griffen and Carol Lam about this subject. While we attempted to persuade the U.S. Attorney to focus more resources in a way advocated by Federal law enforcement officers charged with securing the border, we left the meeting unconvinced that U.S. Attorney Lam was prepared to direct more resources toward the prosecution of actual foot soldiers for the smuggling cartels. For three years, I and other members of Congress wrote Ms. Lam, the U.S. Attorney General, and the President asking that more be done to prosecute those who traffic in human beings. Only someone who believes that trafficking human beings isn’t a serious crime could look at Carol Lam’s record and see an area that does not deserve legitimate criticism. My efforts to bring accountability and justice to the foot soldiers of smuggling organizations has not been limited to sending letters to the Administration. I have successfully secured both funding authorizations and appropriations to bring more prosecutorial resources to focus on alien smugglers. Last summer, these efforts began to pay dividends as the Department of Justice announced the addition of 35 new prosecutors to border region offices such as San Diego who will focus exclusively on alien smuggling and other border crimes. I fully intend to continue my work, on a bipartisan basis, with California's senators and my colleagues in the House of Representatives to ensure that our next U.S. attorney focuses on both border crimes and other critical cases here in the San Diego area. ###
03.05.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (CA-49) will testify at a Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law hearing scheduled for Tuesday at 2 PM on the removal of seven U.S. Attorneys including Carol Lam, the former U.S. District Attorney for the Southern District of California. Carol Lam and other removed U.S. Attorneys will also testify at the hearing. “As U.S. Attorney, Carol Lam compiled a number of notable achievements including the successful prosecution of former Congressman Randy “Duke” Cunningham,” said Issa. “These achievements, while significant, did not excuse the fact that her office neglected border crimes – particularly prosecuting the foot soldiers of alien smuggling cartels.” “For three years I wrote Ms. Lam, the U.S. Attorney General, and the President asking that more be done to prosecute those who traffic in human beings. Only someone who believes that trafficking human beings isn’t a serious crime could look at Carol Lam’s record and say she was removed for no good reason,” added Issa. FACTS ABOUT CAROL LAM: A Department of Justice evaluation of Carol Lam’s office in February 2005 found: *The number of immigration cases per attorney in Carol Lam’s office was the lowest among the five U.S. Attorneys offices on the Southwest border. *Carol Lam had made efforts to reduce the number of border cases assigned to the General Crimes trial teams. *The Border Patrol believed that revisions to the guidelines to for prosecuting alien smugglers would constrict them to an “unacceptably low level” of prosecutable apprehensions. *A number of law enforcement agencies disagreed with the prosecutorial guidelines thresholds and felt the guidelines thresholds unduly hampered their enforcement efforts. *There was a perception that the less experienced attorneys assigned to the team that processed all immigration and border cases needed more support and instruction before, during and after court proceedings and during plea negotiations.In June 2006, California Sen. Dianne Feinstein wrote to U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales to express concerns about Carol Lam's performance in office: “It has come to my attention that despite high apprehension rates by Border Patrol agents along California's border with Mexico, prosecutions by the U.S. Attorney's Office Southern District of California appear to lag behind. . . . It is my understanding that the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of California may have some of the most restrictive prosecutorial guidelines nationwide for immigration cases, such that many Border Patrol agents end up not referring their cases … I also want to stress the importance of vigorously prosecuting these types of cases so that California isn't viewed as an easy entry point for alien smugglers because there is no fear of prosecution if caught.” In July 2006, San Diego Border Patrol Sector Chief Darryl Griffen expressed concerns about changes made by Carol Lam to prosecutorial policies related to smugglers in front of a bipartisan House panel: “Foot guides are the foot soldiers for the criminal cartels that traffic cargo, narcotics and contraband across our border,” said Griffen who explained how Lam's policies reduced prosecutions of foot guides from 367 in one fiscal year to only five under the new policy in the following year. “What would happen then, we would apprehend people that were guiding people across the country, many times at risk. And without meeting prosecution guidelines, they were simply voluntarily returning back to Mexico where they could continue to conduct illicit activity. There is no level of consequences,” Griffen stated. ###
02.16.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa who represents the Congressional District that contains Camp Pendleton, California – the home of the 1st Marine Division, today voted “no” on H.Con.Res. 63, the non-binding Democratic Iraq War Resolution opposing President George W. Bush’s decision to augment U.S. forces in Iraq. “This is, in fact, a debate by people who are not military experts,” said Issa on the floor of the House of the four day debate on the resolution that offers no direction for either victory or withdrawal. “I am not a military expert, and I do not pretend to play one on television and before the American people and yet that's what we're doing here for four solid days. We're in fact pretending to be military experts.” “This resolution offers no alternative course for America in Iraq – no plan for victory and no plan for withdrawal,” added Issa. “Their resolution lacks the courage to take a position on what America should do in regard to our involvement in Iraq.” “Less than one-third of the Members who voted on this resolution are veterans and less than one-third traveled to Iraq in the last Congress,” said Issa. “General Petraeus has said that additional troops are necessary, he was approved unanimously by the Senate. This Congress lacks the expertise to challenge his judgment while offering no alternative.” The resolution was passed by a vote of 246 to 182. ###
02.12.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives, today, voted to establish a pilot program in certain United States district courts to encourage enhancement of expertise in patent cases among district judges. H.R. 34, introduced by Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) was approved by voice vote. “Bipartisan support in the House, the Senate, and the patent community has moved forward this legislation to create patent expertise in District Courts,” said Rep. Issa. “Judicial mistakes in patent litigation are costly. This legislation will provide resources and a system to increase expertise on patent law among Federal judges.” “This legislation will raise the level of expertise in patent litigation, improve the reliability of patents and allow businesses to spend more time inventing and less time litigating,” Rep. Schiff said. “This will reduce the cost to consumers of everything from promising new medicines to the latest cell phones.” Under the legislation, if a judge opts-in to the new program and a patent case is randomly assigned to that judge, that judge keeps the case. When a case is randomly assigned to a judge in a district with the pilot program who has not opted to hear patent cases, that judge has the choice of keeping the case or referring the case to the group of judges who have opted-in to the program. The core intent of the pilot program is to enhance training and staffing for judges who have the desire and aptitude to hear more patent cases, while preserving the principle of random assignment to help avoid forum shopping. The pilot project will last no longer than 10 years, and periodic studies will occur to determine the pilot project’s success. H.R. 34 has garnered broad support from the patent community and has not faced opposition in Congress. Last year, this legislation was approved in the House of Representatives and a companion bill was introduced in the Senate. ###
02.09.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Darrell Issa (CA-49) has been named Ranking Member of the Intelligence Community Management Subcommittee which is responsible for focusing on the management challenges of integrating the 16 components of the intelligence community. This is the second Subcommittee on which Issa will serve as Ranking Member for the 110th Congress. He also serves as the Ranking Member for the Domestic Policy Subcommittee of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform which has jurisdiction for all oversight of domestic policy issues. “Congressman Issa’s background in business will help him as the top Republican on the Intelligence Community Management Subcommittee,” said U.S. Rep. Pete Hoekstra, R-Mich., House Intelligence Committee Ranking Member. “From reducing Intelligence Community bureaucracy to increasing the language capability of our nation’s intelligence workforce, there are many vital issues where Darrell will make a difference in strengthening America’s national security efforts.” “In this information age, having our intelligence community coordinate and communicate effectively is essential to our national security. The pace of new technology creates both new threats to our security and gives us the tools to counter them,” said Issa. “This Subcommittee will work to foster needed change in how the intelligence community works together.” The aim of the Intelligence Community Management Subcommittee will be to help the Community achieve what the 9/11 Commission termed “unity of effort” to collect, analyze, and disseminate policy-relevant intelligence. Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) serves as Chair of the Subcommittee. ###
01.18.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Darrell Issa, today, expressed his gratitude to supporters of legislation authorizing a $16.5 million program to educate women and healthcare providers about gynecologic cancers following President George W. Bush signing the legislation into law. “Increasing awareness about gynecologic cancers offers an increased opportunity for early detection and saving lives,” said Rep. Darrell Issa who authored H.R. 1245 along with Reps. Sander Levin, Rosa DeLauro, Kay Granger, and Dan Burton. “The enormous support this bill received from cancer survivors, healthcare providers, and friends and family of those who have fought gynecologic cancers was critical to its success.” The idea for the Gynecological Cancer Awareness Act, also known as “Johanna’s Law,” was conceived by Sheryl Silver, who lost her sister, Johanna, to ovarian cancer following a three-and-a-half year battle with the disease. H.R. 1245 was originally introduced on March 10, 2005. It attracted 257 cosponsors and was passed by the House of Representatives on November 14, 2006, and the Senate on December 8. President Bush signed the measure into law on January 12, 2007. ###
01.16.2007	“Carol Lam has honorably served the people of the United States as the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California for over four years. San Diego owes her our thanks for her work, particularly for her success targeting public corruption and other white collar crimes. The professionalism exhibited by the attorneys from her office who prosecuted former Congressman Randy Cunningham was a credit to her leadership and her office. “Carol Lam serves as a political appointee of President Bush. Changing the leadership at the office of the U.S. Attorney will bring new ideas and new strategies that will benefit our area. “I have been outspoken about the need to do more to target human smugglers and organized crime at the border for prosecution. I look forward to working with the next U.S. Attorney on this area of concern so that the prosecutorial resources needed to effectively deter alien smuggling and other border crimes are made available.” ###
01.10.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following the approval of Committee assignments by the Republican Conference, Rep. Darrell Issa announced that he will serve as a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on the Judiciary, and the Committee on Government Reform in the 110th Congress. All Republican Members of the Select Committee on Intelligence are appointed by House Republican Leader John Boehner (R-OH) and the other assignments were given final approval by the full membership of House Republicans. “These committee assignments will continue to allow me to play an active role in shaping legislation on issues affecting illegal immigration, intellectual property, fighting terrorism, and overseeing the use of taxpayer dollars by the Federal Government,” said Issa. Issa also announced that he expects to be named as a Ranking Member on a Government Reform Subcommittee in the coming days and that he has been granted a leave of absence from his membership on the House Energy and Commerce Committee and the House Foreign Affairs (formerly known as the International Relations Committee) for the 110th Congress that affords him the opportunity to return to those panels at a future date. ###
01.09.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa, today, in a letter to the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct asked for an official interpretation of a rule passed by House Democrats as part of H.Res. 6 that may makeall Members of Congress who fly on non-governmental flights guilty of violating House Ethics rules. An official with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) confirmed the non-existence of a license specified by Democrats as a necessary stipulation for Congressional travel. “It seems that no Member can fly on any non-government airplane,” said an FAA spokesman. “Democrats have broken their promise to work in a bipartisan manner and through an open process and it’s resulted in a snafu that could have been avoided or easily fixed,” said Rep. Darrell Issa who wrote to Speaker Nancy Pelosi before the error was considered on the House floor. “The arrogance of the Congressional Democratic Leadership has precluded them from admitting their mistake and fixing it through the legislative process.” Issa’s letter to Chairman Howard Berman and Ranking Member Doc Hastings of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct seeks clarification on what restrictions the erroneous new rule imposes on Member travel and whether or not the rule can be used to prohibit Members from flying on private aircraft owned by individuals or corporations. Stated Issa in the letter, “While Rep. Alcee Hastings, in speaking for the majority that offered H.Res. 6, made a vague statement on intent that did not acknowledge the FAA license question or any explicit mistake in this rule, it would seem that any Member traveling on a non-government flight would be violating House rules as approved on January 5.” The text of the letter sent by Rep. Issa to the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct follows below: January 9, 2007 The Honorable Howard Berman ChairmanCommittee on Standards of Official Conduct HT-2, The CapitolWashington, DC 20515 The Honorable Doc Hastings Ranking MemberCommittee on Standards of Official Conduct HT-2, The CapitolWashington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Berman and Ranking Member Hastings: I request the assistance of the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct in obtaining an official interpretation of Section 207, clause 15 (a) of Rule XXIII of the Democratic Rules package (H.Res. 6) that was agreed to by the House on January 5, 2007. Clause 15 (a) states, “A Member, Delegate, or Resident Commissioner may not use personal funds, official funds, or campaign funds for a flight on a non-governmental airplane that is not licensed by the Federal Aviation Administration to operate for compensation or hire.” The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) simply stated, does not license either airplanes or flights for compensation or hire – only pilots and carriers are licensed for commercial use. This poorly written rule has exposed all Members of the House of Representatives to an ethics complaint should they use personal, official, or campaign funds for any travel on a non-governmental airplane. This rule, in its own clear and unambiguous language, prohibits Members from using funds of any kind for all non-governmental flights, including those operated by commercial carriers that most Members rely on for transportation between their district and their Washington, D.C. duty station. Agreeing with this interpretation, an official with the FAA stated in the January 8, 2007, edition of Roll Call, “it seems that no Member can fly on any non-government airplane.” In addition to problems resulting from the fact that this rule critically relies on an FAA license that does not exist, this rule has an additional flaw in that it offers no exception for Members using their personal funds for flying aircraft they personally own. While Rep. Alcee Hastings, in speaking for the majority that offered H.Res. 6, made a vague statement on intent that did not acknowledge the FAA license question or any explicit mistake in this rule, it appears that any Member who travels under the new rules on a non-government flight is in violation House rules as approved on January 5. Specifically, I ask for an official interpretation on the following questions: Does the Committee agree that Members who use personal, official, or campaign funds for commercial airline flights on airplanes that fail to have the (non-existent) FAA license specified in clause 15 (a) are subject to sanction for violating House Ethics rules? Does the Committee agree that Members who fly their own personal aircraft are subject to sanction for violating clause 15 (a)? If the Committee intends to nullify the application of clause 15 (a) in the previous questions, does the committee intend to retain and enforce the prohibition of clause 15 that precludes Members from using funds for flights on jets owned by private individuals or corporations (excluding flights for compensation or hire)? Does the Committee believe this rule is flawed and requires a legislative correction? Does the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct have any previous precedents of nullifying or ignoring the text of rules agreed to by the House of Representatives or their application? As adopted by the House, clause 15 (a) places all Members who fly non-governmental airplanes in violation of House Ethics rules and exposes them to sanction by the committee. I request an immediate response to the questions presented and that the committee provide guidance to Members on how and if the committee intends to enforce clause 15 (a). Sincerely yours, Darrell IssaMember of Congress ###
01.04.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On the first day of the 110th Congress, Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) today introduced nine legislative measures addressing critical issues facing the people of the 49th District including strengthening penalties for criminal aliens and key water projects. “Many of these bills were approved in the last Congress by the House with broad bipartisan support. I intend to put forth these and other ideas and proposals and stand ready to work on the most pressing issues facing our country and our community,” said Issa. “As I always have, I will vote with the majority when they are right and against them when they are not.” Proposals introduced by Rep. Issa today include: H.R. 26 – Criminal Alien Accountability – stiffens penalties for illegal aliens who violate deportation orders and other criminal aliens. H.R. 27 – Ronald Wilson Reagan Exclusive Economic Zone – honors America’s 40th President and former California Governor by naming the exclusive economic zones off our coasts that he established in his honor. H.R. 28 – Pechanga Band of Luiseno Mission Indians Land Transfer Act – transfers Department of Interior Lands adjacent to the Pechanga Reservation to the tribes’ care and responsibility in a Department of Interior Trust. H.R. 29 – Authorization for construction of facilities to provide water for irrigation, municipal, domestic, military, and other uses from the Santa Margarita River. H.R. 30 – Eastern Municipal Water District Recycled Water System Pressurization and Expansion Project – Furthers the design, planning, and construction of permanent facilities needed to establish operational pressure zones that will be used to provide recycled water in the district. H.R. 31 – Elsinore Valley Municipal Water District Wastewater and Recycled Water Facilities Act – Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior, in cooperation with the Elsinore Valley Municipal Water District, California, to participate in the design, planning, and construction of permanent facilities needed to establish recycled water distribution and wastewater treatment and reclamation facilities that will be used to treat wastewater and provide recycled water in the District. H.R. 32 – Health Care Incentive Act – provides an incentive for employers of certain wage employees to provide health insurance. H.R. 33 – Minimum Wage Fairness Act – recalculates minimum wage by including earned tips. H.R. 34 – Patent Pilot Program – establishes a program within Federal courts to help adjudicate patent cases more efficiently. ###
01.04.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa, today, in a letter to Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi called for an immediate correction to Section 207 of the Democratic House Rules proposal (H.Res. 6) that would inadvertently ban Members of Congress from flying personally owned aircraft. “This conspicuous error is the result of the hasty, secretive manner in which you have assembled this legislation,” stated Issa in the letter to Speaker Pelosi. “Contrary to your promise that members should have adequate time to review all substantive legislation, you prepared this package behind closed doors, without public input, and delivered the first copy of this important legislation to many members in the dark of the night just hours before it was to be considered.” Issa argued that consideration of future legislation through regular order and a bipartisan process could avoid future mistakes and result in better legislation than that written in a secretive process. “The consideration of legislation through regular order allows for the proper scrutiny and vetting of legislative language before it is presented to the full body for consideration,” wrote Issa. “The presence of these careless errors demonstrates the type of product that comes from a closed process without opportunities for discussion and debate. I urge you to consider future legislation through regular order and in the open manner in which you have repeatedly promised you would. I do appreciate the bi-partisan nature of this error however, in that it would ground both Republican and Democrat pilots alike.” A copy of the letter sent to Speaker Pelosi follows below: January 4, 2007 The Honorable Nancy PelosiSpeaker of the House of RepresentativesWashington, D.C. 20515 Dear Madam Speaker: I am writing to ask that you immediately correct a glaring error in your rules package, H. Res. 6, which would have the inadvertent effect of grounding Members of Congress who are pilots and aircraft owners. This conspicuous error is the result of the hasty, secretive manner in which you have assembled this legislation. Contrary to your promise that Members should have adequate time to review all substantive legislation, you prepared this package behind closed doors, without public input, and delivered the first copy of this important legislation to many Members in the dark of the night just hours before it was to be considered. As written, section 207, clause 15 (a) of Rule XXIII of the Democratic Rules package would prohibit Members from using their personal funds for travel on their own aircraft for any purpose whatsoever, whether official or personal. In other words, this rule would prevent Members who own aircraft from using them to commute between Washington and their district, and would also prohibit Members from using a privately owned aircraft to conduct personal business or take a family vacation. While I understand your intent is to prohibit Members from traveling on corporate aircraft, the actual language being presented to the House will effect a much broader prohibition. Further, clause 15 specifically prohibits a Member of Congress from flying aboard a “non-governmental airplane that is not licensed by the Federal Aviation Administration to operate for compensation or hire.” The FAA, however, does not license any aircraft to operate for compensation or hire. The FAA licenses only operators and carriers, requiring that the aircraft they operate meet certain operational requirements. Therefore, you have technically prohibited every Member of Congress from flying on any airplane that is not owned by the government. The consideration of legislation through regular order allows for the proper scrutiny and vetting of legislative language before it is presented to the full body for consideration. The presence of these careless errors demonstrates the type of product that comes from a closed process without opportunities for discussion and debate. I urge you to consider future legislation through regular order and in the open manner in which you have repeatedly promised that you would. I do appreciate the bi-partisan nature of this error, however, in that it would ground both Republican and Democrat pilots alike. Sincerely, Darrell IssaMember of Congress ###
11.17.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) made the following statement following Republican Leadership elections for the 110th Congress: “I am honored to have been considered as a candidate for Chairman of the Republican Policy Committee. I congratulate Chairman McCotter and the rest of our new leadership on their election. “I will continue to serve as a member of the Policy Committee and look forward to working with Chairman McCotter to help our Conference develop new ideas for our conference. “Republicans have strong leadership and we will work together to address the many critical issues facing our nation.” ###
11.15.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today, by voice vote, approved H.R. 1245, the Gynecologic Cancer Education and Awareness Act of 2005. H.R. 1245 will authorize $16.5 million for programs to educate women and healthcare providers with respect to gynecologic cancers. “The legislation is the product of a broad coalition of supporters with a commitment to making a gynecologic cancer awareness program a reality,” said Rep. Issa, who introduced the legislation last year. “I’d like to thank Reps. Sander Levin, Rosa DeLauro, Kay Granger, and Dan Burton who introduced this legislation with me, as well as Chairman Joe Barton, Ranking Member John Dingell, and Chairman Nathan Deal, for their help in passing this important bill. Many cancer survivors, including a member of my staff, along with the friends and family of those who have fought cancer, played a pivotal role in passing this legislation and I appreciate their leadership in this effort.” The idea for the Gynecological Cancer Awareness Act, also known as “Johanna’s Law,” was conceived by Sheryl Silver, who lost her sister, Johanna, to ovarian cancer following a three-and-a-half year battle with the disease. “Every inch of progress we make fighting these deadly diseases gets us closer to a cure,” said Rep. Rosa DeLauro, a 20-year survivor of ovarian cancer. “Johanna’s Law recognizes something critical – that until we have accurate screening methods, public education is one of the most critical weapons we have toward beating gynecologic cancers like ovarian, cervical and uterine cancer. In creating a federal campaign to educate women and health care providers alike, as this legislation does, we can take a bold step toward ensuring women know which symptoms to look for and how to seek help before it is too late. I am delighted that this legislation has passed the U.S. House.” H.R. 1245 now awaits action in the U.S. Senate. Rep. Issa stated optimism that the Senate will pass this life-saving measure before it adjourns for the year. ###
11.13.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) today presented his vision for the Republican Policy Committee and launched a website www.gopleadership.org as a part of his campaign for chairman of the organization that helps develop Republican Policy ideas. “Through my conversations with colleagues over the past few days, I have found broad agreement that Republicans must rally around our core principles and focus on the strengths of our party that separate us from liberal Democrats,” said Issa. “The Policy Committee has an important role to play in helping Republicans retake the majority and I believe the ideas my colleagues have shared will go a long way toward building an effective team.” Information on Rep. Issa’s campaign for Republican Policy Chairman will be continuously updated on www.gopleadership.org. A copy of Rep. Issa’s presentation for the Policy Committee that was distributed to Republican Member offices this morning is attached. ###
11.08.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) today announced his candidacy for House Republican Policy Committee Chairman. “Republicans now have the challenge of articulating an agenda of growth and prosperity as a counterpoint to a Democrat leadership committed to unraveling the successful policies that have given us a robust economy,” Issa stated. “With our Members shut out of a Committee process in a Democrat Congress, the Republican Policy Committee has an essential role to play as a venue for Republican Members to advance their ideas.” “I believe I have the energy and drive to move forward the agenda of our Conference and Members, and the experience advocating major policy initiatives to effectively lead the Republican Policy Committee,” Issa explained. “In the coming days I will be talking to Members to ask for their support and their ideas about the future of the Policy Committee and our Conference.” Current Policy Committee Chairman Adam Putnam has announced that he is a candidate for Chairman of the House Republican Conference. Leadership elections for the House Republican Conference are scheduled for Friday, November 17, 2006.
09.29.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives, last night, voted to establish a pilot program in certain United States district courts to encourage enhancement of expertise in patent cases among district judges. H.R. 5418, introduced by Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) was approved by voice vote. “At present, far too many district court decisions are appealed to the Federal Circuit, because the Federal Circuit reverses district courts much of the time,” said Rep. Issa in a statement for the Congressional Record. “These reversals are so frequent that many litigants see an appeal to the Federal Circuit as an automatic next step. Such litigation decreases the productivity of American businesses, because resources that could be used for research and development and other more productive endeavors, goes to pay attorney's fees.” “This legislation will raise the level of expertise in patent litigation, improve the reliability of patents and allow businesses to spend more time inventing and less time litigating,” Rep. Schiff said. “This will reduce the cost to consumers of everything from promising new medicines to the latest cell phones.” Under the legislation, if a judge opts-in to the new program and a patent case is randomly assigned to that judge, that judge keeps the case. When a case is randomly assigned to a judge in a district with the pilot program who has not opted to hear patent cases, that judge has the choice of keeping the case or referring the case to the group of judges who have opted-in to the program. The core intent of the pilot program is to enhance training and staffing for judges who have the desire and aptitude to hear more patent cases, while preserving the principle of random assignment to help avoid forum shopping. The pilot project will last no longer than 10 years, and periodic studies will occur to determine the pilot project’s success. H.R. 5418 has garnered broad support from the patent community and has not faced opposition in Congress. Last week, Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) introduced S. 3923 as a companion bill to H.R. 5418. H.R. 5418 remains on track to become law before the adjournment of the 109th Congress. ###
09.28.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today, approved by voice vote, a resolution introduced by Rep. Darrell Issa highlighting the simple but important message for women for Gynecologic Cancer Awareness Month (GCAM) in September: Get to know your family history.Conduct a cancer risk assessment.Ask questions: educate yourself about gynecologic cancers.Make an appointment for an annual gynecologic exam and screening test. The Gynecologic Cancer Foundation first declared September as Gynecologic Cancer Awareness Month (GCAM) in 1999. Each September GCF embarks upon an intensive educational program to reach women with the important GCAM message. Every seven minutes a woman is diagnosed with a gynecologic cancer. In 2006, over 77,000 women will be diagnosed with a gynecologic cancer and over 27,000 women will die. The most common gynecologic cancers include cancer of the ovaries, cervix and uterus. Too many women are dying because they were diagnosed too late. Education and early detection are the keys to saving women’s lives and reducing these statistics. If diagnosed in the early stages, the 5-year survivability rates are as high as 95%. “By simply educating women about these cancers, we have an opportunity to save lives,” said Issa whose current Legislative Director, Paige Anderson, was diagnosed with cervical cancer two years ago and was recently declared cancer free. “I’m so pleased the House of Representatives passed this resolution to recognize September and Gynecologic Cancer Awareness Month and to honor the 15th anniversary of the Gynecologic Cancer Foundation. Any opportunity to raise awareness on this deadly cancer is an opportunity to save a woman’s life.” For more information about gynecologic cancers, including information about a risk assessment, visit https://www.wcn.org/. ###
09.21.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa, today, applauded the U.S. House of Representatives for acting to authorize the addition of 20 more U.S. Attorneys to prosecute alien smugglers for each year from 2008 through 2013. The measure was included as part of H.R. 6095 that the House approved by a vote of 277-140. Congressman Issa made the following statement in the Congressional Record: Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 6095, the “Immigration Law Enforcement Act of 2006.” This legislation takes an important step toward greater prosecution of human smugglers, known as “coyotes,” and I thank Judiciary Committee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner for bringing this legislation before us. This legislation also authorizes state and local cooperation with Federal immigration enforcement efforts, as well as helping to end the catch-and-release of criminal aliens. I have spoken about the need for increased prosecution of coyotes many times. I have corresponded numerous times with the Attorney General on the subject imploring increased prosecution. Last year I introduced the Criminal Alien Accountability Act that would stiffen the penalties for coyotes and other criminal aliens. My legislation was incorporated in large part into H.R. 4437, the “Border Protection, Antiterrorism, and Illegal Immigration Control Act of 2005,” which passed the House last December. However, major roadblocks impeding the prosecution of coyotes remain, and they are the lack of acceptance of these cases by U.S. Attorneys and a lack of uniform prosecution guidelines among the U.S. Attorney offices along the Southern border. The U.S. Attorney’s Office has stated in the past that it does not have the resources needed to fully prosecute arrested coyotes. For example, the Border Patrol was instructed to release known coyote, Antonio Amparo-Lopez, an individual with 21 aliases and 20 arrests. Releasing a criminal such as this is completely unacceptable, and is demoralizing to the Border Patrol agents who work so hard to make the arrests in the first place. I, along with Chairman Sensenbrenner, recently met with U.S. Border Patrol Sector Chief Darryl Griffin and U.S. Attorney Carol Lam in San Diego to discuss these problems. Our meetings demonstrated the differences in opinion between those who arrest human smugglers and those who prosecute them. Importantly, we learned that U.S. Attorney offices have varying prosecution guidelines for human smugglers depending on where the office is located. This causes smugglers to use access points in states with weaker prosecution standards, increasing the criminal element in those communities. H.R. 6095 calls on the Attorney General to adopt uniform guidelines for the prosecution of smuggling offenses. This change could help lessen the burden on borders areas within the United States that currently are overrun by coyote operations, in addition to reducing smuggling in total. Additionally, H.R. 6095 authorizes 20 new U.S. attorneys for each year from FY 2008 through FY 2013 to help prosecute human smuggling offenses. I will continue to work with others in Congress, the Administration, and the public at large to ensure the prosecution and removal of every criminal alien that is apprehended. The text of the Alien Smuggler Prosecution Act contained in H.R. 6095 follows below: TITLE II--ALIEN SMUGGLER PROSECUTION ACTSEC. 201. EFFECTIVE PROSECUTION OF ALIEN SMUGGLERS. (a) Findings- The Congress finds as follows: (1) Recent experience shows that alien smuggling is flourishing, is increasingly violent, and is highly profitable. (2) Alien smuggling operations also present terrorist and criminal organizations with opportunities for smuggling their members into the United States practically at will. (3) Alien smuggling is a lucrative business. Each year, criminal organizations that smuggle or traffic in persons are estimated to generate $9,500,000,000 in revenue worldwide. (4) Alien smuggling frequently involves dangerous and inhumane conditions for smuggled aliens. Migrants are frequently abused or exploited, both during their journey and upon reaching the United States. Consequently, aliens smuggled into the United States are at significant risk of physical injury, abuse, and death. (5) Notwithstanding that alien smuggling poses a risk to the United States as a whole, uniform guidelines for the prosecution of smuggling offenses are not employed by the various United States attorneys. Understanding that border-area United States attorneys face an overwhelming workload, a lack of sufficient prosecutions by certain United States attorneys has encouraged additional smuggling, and demoralized Border Patrol officers charged with enforcing our anti-smuggling laws. (b) Sense of Congress- It is the sense of the Congress that the Attorney General should adopt, not later than 3 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, uniform guidelines for the prosecution of smuggling offenses to be followed by each United States attorney in the United States. (c) Additional Personnel- In each of the fiscal years 2008 through 2013, the Attorney General shall, subject to the availability of appropriations, increase by not less than 20 the number of attorneys in the offices of United States attorneys employed to prosecute cases under section 274 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1324), as compared to the previous fiscal year. ###
09.19.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House Representatives, today, voted 402-0 to pass H.Res. 622 to recognize, and honor Filipino World War II veterans for their defense of American democracy and their important contribution to the victorious outcome of World War II. “These men fought bravely to defend their homeland and our nation,” said Rep. Darrell Issa, the resolution’s sponsor, in a statement for the Congressional Record. “It is my hope that this resolution will further affirm the deep friendship between the American and Philippine peoples. I am pleased that we are able to recognize the Filipino World War II veterans for their defense of democracy and contribution to the victorious outcome of World War II.” Issa also urged Congress to act on H.R. 4574, the Filipino Veterans Act of 2006, which seeks to honor the service of Filipino veterans by granting them the benefits made available to other WWII veterans. “Filipino veterans fought as American soldiers under General MacArthur in World War II and their service for our country deserves recognition. The time to honor these heroes while they are still with us, however, is running short. Congress needs to address the inequity in benefits for these veterans by passing the Filipino Veterans Equity Act of 2006 before the opportunity passes.” ###
09.14.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa, today, applauded the House of Representatives for passing stand-alone legislation to build 700 miles of border fencing along the U.S.-Mexico border. H.R. 6061, the Secure Fence Act of 2006, was approved by a vote of 283 to 138. “Today’s action to increase border security addresses a problem of critical importance,” said Rep. Issa. “Our lack of border security is not a controversy and the Senate should not delay passage of this legislation. Building this fence will provide an effective barrier to illegal crossings and border crime.” In California, H.R. 6061 authorizes the construction of two layers of reinforced fencing, the installation of additional physical barriers, roads, lighting, cameras, and sensors extending from 10 miles west of the Tecate, California, port of entry to 10 miles east of the Tecate, California, port of entry and extending from 10 miles west of the Calexico, California, port of entry to 5 miles east of the Douglas, Arizona, port of entry. Summary of H.R. 6061 -- Authorizing more than 700 miles of two-layered reinforced fencing along the southwest border with prioritized placement at critical, highly populated areas; -- Mandating that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) achieve and maintain operational control over the entire border through a “virtual fence” that deploys cameras, ground sensors, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), and integrated surveillance technology; -- Requiring DHS to provide all necessary authority to border personnel to disable fleeing vehicles, similar to the authority held by the United States Coast Guard for maritime vessels; and -- Requiring DHS to assess vulnerabilities on the northern border. ###
09.14.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today voted 245 to 171 to pass H.Res. 1000 and adopt earmark reform requiring the disclosure of the names of Members requesting all earmarks. The new rule will apply to both House and Senate bills and does not require action by the Senate or President. Congressman Darrell Issa, a cosponsor of the rule change, explained that the new rule should ferret out questionable earmark requests and will hopefully curb requests for frivolous spending that waste taxpayer money. “This new rule will create transparency in requests by Members of Congress in appropriations and other bills,” said Issa. “Member requests in bills will now be required to stand public scrutiny. This scrutiny will expose conflicts of interest and other abuses that have previously been hidden in spending bills.” Last April, Rep. Issa voluntarily disclosed all 2006 Appropriations requests on his House website. “Democratic rhetoric that this rule change does not go far enough is starkly disingenuous,” said Rep. Issa. “Democrats have by-in-large refused to voluntarily disclose their own earmark requests, they have voted in-bloc against broader reforms that included earmark reform, and have desperately sought to thwart ethics reform.” ###
09.13.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Judiciary Committee today unanimously approved H.R. 5418, a bill to create a pilot program to enhance the expertise of district court judges hearing patent cases. The bill will establish a pilot project in at least five district courts where judges will have the choice of opting-in to the new program to hear patent cases while maintaining random assignment. Each of the test courts will be assigned a clerk with expertise in patent law or with the technical issues arising in patent cases. The bill will also allocate funding to provide educational opportunities for judges who opt-in to the program. “This proposed pilot project to help courts better adjudicate patent cases has garnered strong support from those in the patent community and unanimous support from Members of Congress who have considered its merits,” said Rep. Darrell Issa. “The support behind this legislation should result in expedited approval on the floor of the House and the Senate.” “Patent litigation in the federal court system has become expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain,” Rep. Adam Schiff said. “By providing our courts with the resources they need to carefully consider patent cases, we will ease the work load for our Federal Appeals Courts, which will ultimately save the American taxpayer money.” Under the legislation, if a judge opts-in to the new program and a patent case is randomly assigned to that judge, that judge keeps the case. When a case is randomly assigned to a judge in a district with the pilot program who has not opted to hear patent cases, that judge has the choice of keeping the case or referring the case to the group of judges who have opted-in to the program. The core intent of the pilot program is to steer patent cases to judges that have the desire and aptitude to hear patent cases, while preserving the principle of random assignment to help avoid forum shopping. The pilot project will last no longer than 10 years, and periodic studies will occur to determine the pilot project’s success. ###
08.01.2006	VISTA, C.A. – Congressman Darrell Issa, today, applauded the decision by the Department of Justice to add 25 new Assistant United States Attorneys, who will focus exclusively on alien smuggling and other border crimes, to the five districts on the U.S./Mexico border including the Southern District of California. “The decision to add these new U.S. Attorneys is a clear recognition by the Department of Justice that not enough resources have been allocated to prosecuting those who traffic in human beings and commit other serious border crimes,” said Congressman Issa. “This is a start, but the Department of Justice still needs to clearly articulate what resources it needs to adopt a zero-tolerance policy for prosecuting traffickers of human beings.” Earlier this year, Congressman Issa’s office obtained a memo from a Department of Homeland Security source detailing that only 6% of those apprehended for smuggling aliens by agents from a Border Patrol Substation near San Diego in FY 2004 were prosecuted for their crime. Last year, Congressman Issa obtained an annual authorization of $5 million to specifically target prosecution of coyotes through 2009. In June, the U.S. House of Representatives added $84,835,000 from last year’s funding for U.S. Attorneys who prosecute federal statutes, including immigration statutes. Report language for H.R. 5672, the Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007 specifies that $4,490,000 of this increased funding is intended to address “prosecution of human smugglers referred to as ‘coyotes’ and other criminal aliens, methamphetamine traffickers, and identity thieves.” The report also outlined the expectation that the Department of Justice will “reallocate resources, if necessary, to address these priority areas.” Congressman Issa was first alerted that those who traffic in human beings on the U.S./Mexico Border were routinely not prosecuted in December 2003. He has led the effort in Congress to bring attention to this problem and to secure resources to increase prosecutions. ###
07.27.2006	HOUSE SUBCOMMITTEE APPROVES ISSA/SCHIFF LEGISLATION TO IMPROVE PATENT LITIGATION IN DISTRICT COURTS WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Subcommittee on the Internet, Courts, and Intellectual Property today unanimously approved H.R. 5418, a bill to create a pilot program to enhance the expertise of district court judges hearing patent cases. The bill will establish a pilot project in at least five district courts where judges will have the choice of opting-in to the new program to hear patent cases while maintaining random assignment. Each of the test courts will be assigned a clerk with expertise in patent law or with the technical issues arising in patent cases. The bill will also allocate funding to provide educational opportunities for judges who opt-in to the program. “Today’s action puts this bill on track to become law before Congress adjourns,” said Rep. Darrell Issa. “Members of Congress and patent holders in many different fields of intellectual property recognize that improving the ability of federal courts to handle patent cases enhances the benefits of innovation.” Rep. Issa, today, also released letters supporting H.R. 5418. Under the legislation, if a judge opts-in to the new program and a patent case is randomly assigned to that judge, that judge keeps the case. When a case is randomly assigned to a judge in a district with the pilot program who has not opted to hear patent cases, that judge has the choice of keeping the case or referring the case to the group of judges who have opted-in to the program. The core intent of the pilot program is to steer patent cases to judges that have the desire and aptitude to hear patent cases, while preserving the principle of random assignment to help avoid forum shopping. The pilot project will last no longer than 10 years, and periodic studies will occur to determine the pilot project’s success. ###
07.19.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives, today, voted 349 to 74 to prevent the removal of the Mt. Soledad Cross. “Our founding fathers didn’t want the establishment of a religion but they didn’t want a Godless society,” said Congressman Issa who voted in favor of the legislation. “They wanted the freedom for the people to observe their God as they see fit. I am pleased that the House and the Supreme Court have both acted swiftly to prevent the removal of this San Diego landmark.” H.R. 5683, which was introduced by Reps. Duncan Hunter, Darrell Issa, and Brian Bilbray will transfer possession of the Memorial to the federal government so that the cross will not have to be removed. This legislation would require that the property be managed by the Secretary of Defense and that maintenance be conducted by the Mt. Soledad Memorial Association. “Members of Congress have recognized the urgent need for this legislation and expedited consideration of this bill,” said Issa. “San Diego now needs Senator Feinstein and Senator Boxer to help win expedited consideration of this important measure in the Senate.” ###
07.10.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives, today by voice vote, adopted legislation authored by Rep. Darrell Issa to authorize the use of federal funds to construct a water pressurization system that will deliver water from Eastern Municipal Water District’s reclamation plants to area residents. When constructed, the project will provide greater local protection from drought and reduce the district’s need to import water. “The area that the Eastern Municipal Water District provides water for is one of the fastest growing in the country,” said Rep. Issa. “Riverside County is facing constantly increasing pressure to find new sustainable ways to meet the areas water supply needs and to accommodate future growth. It is critical that Congress supports projects like this that will lead to an increased use of reclaimed water, especially in areas such as Southern California where the threat of shortages and drought are almost always present.” H.R. 122 authorizes the appropriation of up to $12 million for the federal share of the project up to 25 percent of the total cost. The Bureau of Reclamation estimates that the project will cost $48 million and it expects the project to take 10 to 15 years to build. H.R. 122 now moves to the Senate for consideration. Rep. Issa is optimistic that the Senate will act before the end of the year and that the bill will be signed into law by President George W. Bush before the end of the 109th Congress. ###
06.30.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa, Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Energy and Resources of the House Government Reform Committee, today, made the following statement on Kerr-McGee’s announcement to seek mediation with the Department of the Interior over royalties on natural gas and oil produced from leases issued between 1996 and 2000 under the relief provisions of the Deep Water Royalty Relief Act of 1995: “Kerr-McGee’s decision to seek a mediated resolution with the Department of the Interior over the payment of royalties on Deep Water leases is good news. “At a hearing held by my subcommittee earlier this month, Kerr-McGee stood alone among five major energy companies in asserting that the Department of the Interior did not have authority from Congress to insert price threshold provisions in deep water leases. I am pleased to see that Kerr-McGee, like the other energy company representatives who testified, has now expressed a desire to sit down and reach a resolution that protects the sanctity of the agreement they signed and corrects a clear error in the language of those agreements. “The Subcommittee on Energy and Resources will continue to move forward with its investigation of the missing price threshold provisions in leases signed in 1998 and 1999. Congress needs to identify how this mistake occurred and ensure corrective action is taken.” The Subcommittee has been investigating the Department of Interior’s implementation of the Deep Water Royalty Relief Act of 1995 and the missing price thresholds since March of this year. Interior officials have asserted that the price thresholds were inexplicably omitted but should have been applied to the leases. The Deep Water Royalty Relief Act of 1995 was enacted to provide an incentive to gas companies to explore and extract oil and natural gas from U.S. waters. The incentive allowed companies and the Department of Interior to enter into leases with a defined volume suspension and price threshold so that companies would be able to recover their capital investment before having to pay royalties on their profits. The critical price thresholds that suspended royalty relief contained in leases signed in 1996 and 1997 were left out of those executed in 1998 and 1999. Kerr-McGee has not honored the price thresholds from leases in 1996, 1997, and 2000—and therefore has not made royalty payments due to the government. These price thresholds were explicitly contained in the official Final Notice of Sale and were included in the lease addenda signed by Kerr-McGee. Were Kerr-McGee to win the lawsuit it filed, the federal government would stand to lose upwards of $60 billion. ###
06.29.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives, today, voted 393 – 23 to increase funding for U.S. Attorneys who prosecute federal statutes, including immigration statutes, by $84,835,000 from last year’s funding level to $1.664 billion for fiscal year 2007. Report language for H.R. 5672, the Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007 specifies that $4,490,000 of this increased funding is intended to address “prosecution of human smugglers referred to as ‘coyotes’ and other criminal aliens, methamphetamine traffickers, and identity thieves.” The report also outlined the expectation that the Department of Justice will “reallocate resources, if necessary, to address these priority areas.” “The House has, again, recognized that the failure to prosecute those who traffic in human beings and other criminal aliens is an area where the Department of Justice needs to improve,” said Congressman Issa, who worked with members of the Appropriations Committee to add the language. “Traffickers in human beings who know the system are operating with impunity on our border with Mexico because U.S. Attorneys are not prosecuting their criminal offenses. This added funding will not fix the problem, but it sends a message to U.S. Attorneys that prosecuting those who traffic in human beings should be a priority.” Earlier this year, Congressman Issa’s office obtained a memo from a Department of Homeland Security source detailing that only 6% of those apprehended for smuggling aliens by agents from a Border Patrol Substation near San Diego in FY 2004 were prosecuted for their crime. Last year, Congressman Issa obtained an annual authorization of $5 million to specifically target prosecution of coyotes through 2009. “In the midst of the debate on immigration reform, members of Congress from across the nation have begun to recognize the serious problems those of us who live near the border have had to live with for some time,” said Issa. “Today’s action by the House is a step in the right direction.” ###
06.20.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa, today, announced that he will speak at the 2005 “Kazakhstan Industrial and Innovation Strategy: New Business Opportunities” conference to be held September 8 – 9 at the Hotel Del Coronado in San Diego. The conference will be organized by the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in cooperation with the U.S.-Kazakhstan Business Association and the Asia Society and with the support of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and San Diego World Trade Center. “One of my responsibilities as a Member of Congress is to help expand U.S. export opportunities and the new high-paying jobs increased trade provides,” said Rep. Darrell Issa. “Kazakhstan is an emerging market and I would like to see the U.S. presence in their marketplace grow with their economy. I also look forward to the opportunity to meet the many San Diego business leaders who will attend the conference.” Kanat Saudabayev, Kazakhstan’s Ambassador to the United States, reacting to Rep. Issa’s decision to address the conference said, “We are excited about the upcoming presentation of Kazakhstan, the economic leader of Central Asia, in California, one of the world’s largest economies and that Congressman Issa will address the conference about the benefits of increased trade for California. I am sure that after the conference not only will economic cooperation expand, but our friendship will grow stronger.” Kazakhstan has been an ally in the war against terror, voluntarily disarmed its nuclear weapons arsenal, and has placed itself in a position to be a key U.S. trading partner. Congressman Issa will available to media before, during, and after the conference. Interested media should contact 202-225-3906 for more details about availability. WHO: Congressman Darrell Issa WHAT: Addressing U.S. – Kazakhstan Business Opportunity Conference WHEN: September 8-9, 2005 WHERE: Hotel Del Coronado 1500 Orange Avenue Coronado, CA 92118 ###
06.16.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives, today, soundly rejected calls to withdrawal from Iraq and declared that “the United States will prevail in the Global War on Terror.” The 256 – 153 vote demonstrated America’s continued commitment to winning the War on Terror to our allies and adversaries. “We have gone into the war on terrorism with commitment from this Congress, in Afghanistan, in Iraq, in the South of the Philippines, wherever the terrorists may be and we said we will stay the long haul in each of these places,” said Rep. Darrell Issa during debate on the House Floor. “Today, by a measured response of saying stay the course, we are doing exactly what we need to do.” “I’m proud that on a bipartisan basis of 214 Republicans and 42 Democrats, the House of Representatives has affirmed our support for the men and women fighting in Iraq including our Marines from Camp Pendleton,” said Issa following passage of the resolution. H.Res. 861: (1) honors all those Americans who have taken an active part in the Global War on Terror, whether as first responders protecting the homeland, as servicemembers overseas, as diplomats and intelligence officers, or in other roles; (2) honors the sacrifices of the United States Armed Forces and of partners in the Coalition, and of the Iraqis and Afghans who fight alongside them, especially those who have fallen or been wounded in the struggle, and honors as well the sacrifices of their families and of others who risk their lives to help defend freedom; (3) declares that it is not in the national security interest of the United States to set an arbitrary date for the withdrawal or redeployment of United States Armed Forces from Iraq; (4) declares that the United States is committed to the completion of the mission to create a sovereign, free, secure, and united Iraq; (5) congratulates Prime Minister Nuri Al-Maliki and the Iraqi people on the courage they have shown by participating, in increasing millions, in the elections of 2005 and on the formation of the first government under Iraq's new constitution; (6) calls upon the nations of the world to promote global peace and security by standing with the United States and other Coalition partners to support the efforts of the Iraqi and Afghan people to live in freedom; and (7) declares that the United States will prevail in the Global War on Terror, the noble struggle to protect freedom from the terrorist adversary. ###
06.13.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives, today, voted 351–67 to approve the conference report on the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2006 that included $1.9 billion for Border Security. “Stopping aliens from illegally crossing our borders necessitates a federal commitment to enforcing immigration laws,” said Rep. Darrell Issa who presided over the House during the bill’s passage and favors tightening border security. “This funding will not give us operational control of our borders but adding new border patrol agents, increasing detention space for illegal aliens, and adding money to prosecute criminal aliens is a foundation for an enforcement first approach to immigration.” The $94.5 billion dollar measure that funds emergency defense priorities, hurricane relief, and other Department of Homeland Security priorities includes $708 million to pay for the deployment National Guard troops along the Southwest border, $1.2 billion for the Department of Homeland Security to train and hire 1000 new border agents, 4000 additional detention beds. In addition the funding bill includes $20 million to increase the number of judges and attorneys at the Department of Justice to adjudicate violations of immigration law -- $2 million, of which will specifically add new attorneys to prosecute criminal aliens. Additional highlights of the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act include:Armored Humvees and Tracked Vehicles -- Adds $725 million over the Administration’s request to ensure that tracked combat vehicles, such as Abrams tanks and Bradley fighting vehicles, are upgraded and available to units deploying to combat regions and troops currently in the field. The bill also includes $890 million for newer, safer up-armored Humvees. Preventing Improvised Explosive Devices (IED) Attacks -- Provides nearly $2 billion request to procure and develop countermeasures to prevent IED attacks on our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. Life Insurance and Combat Death Gratuity -- Funds the recently enhanced $400,000 life insurance benefits for service members and $100,000 death gratuity for combat related fatalities. These additional benefits are a small but appropriate response for soldiers who have given their life in service to their country. ###
06.08.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa, a member of the House Select Committee on Intelligence and the House International Relations Committee, today made the following statement following the successful military strike of Al Qaeda in Iraq leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi: “This successful strike that killed one of the world’s most dangerous terrorists and a number of his associates is the result of years of hard work by the members of our nation’s armed forces, our intelligence community, the people of Iraq, and our allies who are helping us fight Al Qaeda. “Al-Zarqawi has amassed a resume of terror that includes the beheading of Americans, responsibility for the deaths of thousands of Iraqi civilians, and an impressive ability to elude capture. This a significant defeat for Al Qaeda in Iraq.” ###
05.24.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), today, sent the following letter to U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California Carol Lam: Ms. Carol C. LamUnited States Attorney880 Front Street, Room 6293San Diego, California 92101 Dear Ms. Lam: In response to your comments on the Border Patrol internal memo my office obtained and released, your statement misses the mark and exhibits a willful disregard to the documented 251 incidents in fiscal year 2004 where the Border Patrol at the El Cajon station apprehended smugglers but led to smuggling charges for roughly 6% of the cases. The memo I released contains a specific enforcement number for each of the 251 incidents that you or the Department of Homeland Security can confirm by simply typing the number into a computer database. Your failure to address the substantive issues raised in the memo is consistent with previous news reports and comments that I have repeatedly heard from Border Patrol agents who work closely with your office. You have previously disregarded my requests for information that can help me understand the extent of the problems associated with prosecuting alien smuggling cases and the resources you would need to adopt a zero tolerance policy for trafficking in human beings. In the case of the memo I released, the fact that you have chosen to focus on unspecified alterations to what you freely admit is an “old Border Patrol document” and your assertion that this document was not seen or approved by Border Patrol management does not dismiss the verifiable facts and details in the memo. I can readily understand that the internal memo, written by a Border Patrol employee, is an embarrassment to your office as the memo speaks with such candor about barriers to prosecution that it could not be embraced and released publicly as a report representing the views of Border Patrol management. On Monday, my office requested your assistance in obtaining a copy of the report you referenced in your statement but your office has not returned that phone call. I find your statement that “all dialogue and debate should be based on well-informed and accurate data” incredibly disingenuous considering your record in response to my past requests for information on criminal aliens and alien smuggling. The last correspondence I sent to you was October 13, 2005, concerning an alien by the name of Alfredo Gonzales Garcia, a.k.a. Isidro Gonzales Alas, FBI # 180566JA5. In this letter I asked that if there is some barrier to the prosecution of criminal aliens, including smugglers, that I am unaware of, to please communicate it so we can make sure you have the resources and policies in place needed to allow you to bring these criminal aliens and repeat offenders to justice. Finally, as the representative of a Congressional district that is greatly impacted by border crimes and as a Member of Congress who sits on the Judiciary Committee, the Intelligence Committee, and the Government Reform Committee that collectively have oversight responsibilities for the Department of Justice and the Department of Homeland Security, your lack of cooperation is hindering the ability of Congress to provide proper oversight over your office and to make informed policy decisions. I am asked to craft and vote on legislative policies that determine your legal authority and the resources you receive and having full and correct information on an issue like the challenges of stopping alien smugglers is essential. I request a joint meeting with you and the Chief Patrol Agent of the San Diego Border Sector to discuss the prosecution of alien smugglers and what resources are needed to establish a zero tolerance policy for prosecuting individuals who traffic in human beings. My office will contact your office to try and arrange a meeting time. Sincerely yours, Darrell IssaMember of Congress ###
05.19.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), today, announced the introduction of H.R. 5418, a bill to create a pilot program to enhance the expertise of district court judges hearing patent cases. The bill will establish a pilot project in at least five district courts where judges will have the choice of opting-in to the new program to hear patent cases. Each of the test courts will be assigned a clerk with expertise in patent law or with the technical issues arising in patent cases. The bill will also allocate funding to provide educational opportunities for judges who opt-in to the program. “Roughly forty percent of all patent case appeals of federal district court decisions are reversed and ultimately decided by the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals,” said Rep. Issa. “This legislation is designed to help courts reduce errors that lead to appeals.” “Patent litigation in the federal court system has become expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain,” Schiff said. “By providing our courts with the resources they need to carefully consider patent cases, we will ease the work load for our Federal Appeals Courts, which will ultimately save the American taxpayer money.” Under the legislation, if a judge opts-in to the new program and a patent case is randomly assigned to that judge, that judge keeps the case. When a case is randomly assigned to a judge in a district with the pilot program who has not opted to hear patent cases, that judge has the choice of keeping the case or referring the case to the group of judges who have opted-in to the program. The core intent of the pilot program is to steer patent cases to judges that have the desire and aptitude to hear patent cases, while preserving the principle of random assignment to help avoid forum shopping. The pilot project will last no longer than 10 years, and periodic studies will occur to determine the pilot project’s success. “Prior to coming to Congress, I was part of a number of patent suits. I was often struck by the fact that many district court judges either knew little of the applicable law, or did not understand the technology involved,” said Issa. “Patent litigation often costs litigants over $10 million and can inject crippling uncertainty into a business. This legislation will help courts and help businesses and individual inventors who patent ideas.” H.R. 5418 has been referred to the House Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Intellectual Property on which Rep. Issa and Rep. Schiff sit. ###
05.11.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa today applauded the 72,756 49th Congressional District seniors who have enrolled in the new Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit and said there is still time for those who have not signed up to look into the drug benefit before the May 15 deadline. Issa also voted in favor of House Resolution 802 today, which encourages all eligible Medicare beneficiaries who have not yet elected to enroll in the new Medicare Part D benefit to review the available options and to determine whether enrollment in a Medicare prescription drug plan best meets their current and future needs for prescription drug coverage. According to information released this week by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), 84% of all seniors in the 49th Congressional District who participate in Medicare have signed up for the prescription drug benefit. Throughout California, 81% of the 4,251,884 Medicare beneficiaries have signed up for the prescription drug benefit. “California Seniors have rejected criticism that this plan wouldn’t provide meaningful assistance to cover prescription drug costs,” said Issa. “Seniors in the forty-ninth district have recognized the clear benefit of harnessing the bargaining power of 40 million seniors to obtain prescription drugs at reduced rates and having coverage to help pay catastrophic costs.” Congress passed landmark legislation in 2004 creating the prescription drug benefit. Under the plan that went into effect this year and is endorsed by the AARP, after seniors pay an annual deductible of no more than $250, the benefit can pay 75 percent of senior citizens’ drug costs up to $2,250 and 95 percent of out-of-pocket costs above $3,600. The Medicare drug benefit also pays 100 percent of all prescription drug costs for low-income seniors. To help inform seniors about the drug benefit, Congressman Issa has hosted informational meetings for seniors about the program and has provided information to seniors through mail, e-mail, and internet outreach efforts. Seniors face a May 15 deadline to sign-up for prescription drug coverage or they face higher premiums and will have to wait until November 15 to sign-up for coverage that will begin in 2007. “I urge all seniors who think they may be eligible for prescription drug coverage to contact Medicare to find out if there’s a plan that could help them with current or future drug costs,” said Issa. “By acting now and signing up before May 15 seniors can get the best premiums and immediate coverage.” For help in choosing the prescription drug benefit plan that best fits their needs, seniors can call 1-800-MEDICARE or visit www.medicare.gov for more information. ###
05.09.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa, today, requested that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, “… immediately suspend all activities that provide the Mexican government with inappropriate surveillance information about law abiding American citizens …” in a letter to Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff. Issa made the request after reports surfaced that the Department of Homeland Security regularly reported the location of U.S. citizens engaged in community border watch efforts to Mexican authorities. “I strongly support community and border watch efforts to legally aid and enhance the resources of local police departments and federal agencies like the Border Patrol,” Issa stated in his letter to Chertoff. “The allegation greatly disturbs me that your department would intentionally undermine the efforts of patriotic American citizens who seek to provide information to Federal agents about illegal crossings and other activities.” “Mexico has not been a partner in creating a safe and secure border region,” said Rep. Issa. “Providing Mexico with information that can help smugglers and illegal border crossers evade capture is absurd.” ### May 9, 2006 The Honorable Michael ChertoffSecretaryDepartment of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Chertoff: I am greatly disturbed by reports that personnel from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, and possibly other branches of the Federal Government, have compiled and shared surveillance information with Mexican authorities on law abiding American citizens who legally alert the U.S. Border Patrol about smuggling and other illegal border crossings. As a member of the House Judiciary Committee, I am concerned that your department lacks Congressional authorization to conduct domestic surveillance of law abiding citizens, as has been reported, and am disturbed by the allegation that Department of Homeland Security resources and personnel have been deployed as de-facto agents of a foreign government. American citizens have a long tradition of forming community watch programs that report illegal activity to relevant law enforcement personnel. These efforts have been proven effective and deserve the support of our government. As you well know, corruption in the Mexican government is rampant, and links among drug cartels, smugglers, and the Mexican government are frequently uncovered. By sharing information about the location and activities of law abiding American citizens who participate in community border watch programs, I am concerned that your department may be putting the lives and safety of these individuals at risk, as well as inadvertently aiding those who illegally attempt to cross our borders. I strongly support community and border watch efforts to legally aid and enhance the resources of local police departments and federal agencies like the Border Patrol. The allegation greatly disturbs me that your department would intentionally undermine the efforts of patriotic American citizens who seek to provide information to Federal agents about illegal crossings and other activities. I request that your Department immediately suspend all activities that provide the Mexican government with inappropriate surveillance information about law abiding American citizens and provide me with a detailed account about what information has been shared with Mexican authorities about U.S. citizens who engage in legal community watch programs. Sincerely, Darrell IssaMember of Congress
04.19.2006	
04.06.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa, today, announced his co-sponsorship of H.R. 4975, The Lobbying Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006. The House Judiciary Committee and the House Government Reform Committee, of which Rep. Issa is a Member, will vote on the bill this week. The bill will require ethics training for all staff, increased reporting for lobbyists, and places a moratorium on privately funded travel. “Recent instances of unethical and illegal conduct necessitates reform to stop abuses and restore public confidence in the integrity of one of the essential institutions of our democracy,” said Issa. “This bill will add transparency to the relationships between Congressmen and lobbyists and places a moratorium on privately funded travel.” Highlights of H.R. 4975: LOBBYING DISCLOSURE Increases lobbying reporting requirement from twice a year to four times a year.Increases amount of information required for filing, including campaign contributions and gifts. REVOLVING DOOR Requires new notification by Clerk of the House on start and end date of post-employment ban.Requires Members to inform the Ethics Committee when commencing compensation negotiation for future employment. TRAVEL AND GIFT RULES Suspends privately-funded travel through the 109th Congress.Directs Ethics Committee to review travel and gift rules and report recommendations to House Rules Committee by end of 2006. ENFORCEMENT Provides new authority to House Inspector General to do random spot audits of lobbying disclosure forms and to refer violations by lobbyists to the Department of Justice.Requires mandatory ethics training for all staff. OTHER Earmark reform -- disallows earmarks if the name the requesting Members is not specified ###
03.31.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Speaker Dennis Hastert has named Rep. Darrell Issa to the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. “Gathering and assessing intelligence and intelligence oversight play a central role as we fight to keep our nation strong and secure,” said Speaker Hastert. Darrell’s strong background in intelligence and military training will make him an asset to the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. He is a valuable member of the House Republican team who likes to get things done. I look forward to working with him in his new role as we fight the Global War on Terror on all fronts.” Unlike most House Committees, members of the Select Committee on the committee are selected not by their party caucuses, but by those elected to lead their parties. All of the Members of the committee are appointed by the Speaker of the House. The Permanent Select Committee Intelligence conducts oversight and authorizes programs for U.S. intelligence gathering activities by civilian and military entities. Issa now serves on four House Committees: The Government Reform Committee, the International Relations Committee, the Judiciary Committee, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. ###
03.03.2006	VISTA, C.A. – Congressman Darrell Issa, today, made the following statement on the sentencing of former Congressman Randy “Duke” Cunningham: “The eight-year and four-month sentence handed down must be viewed as an appropriate punishment for someone who used a position of public trust to achieve personal enrichment. Duke Cunningham’s criminal actions have destroyed his reputation, hurt his family, cost him friendships, and caused him great financial loss. He has paid, and must continue to pay, a steep price for his misdeeds. “Duke Cunningham not only took and solicited bribes; he also damaged and tarnished the House of Representatives, a fundamental institution of our democracy. “The discovery and our full understanding of the length and breadth of these crimes were largely made possible by the investigative journalists who relentlessly pursued the facts of this case. The FBI, U.S. Attorney, and Judge Burns also acted appropriately in investigating, prosecuting, and adjudicating this crime. I commend them for their professionalism.” ###
02.02.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) made the following statement following elections for the Republican Leadership Positions of Majority Leader and House Policy Committee Chairman: “I am honored to have been considered for a leadership position. John Boehner and Adam Putnam will be strong additions to our party’s leadership team. “I will continue to serve as a member of the Policy Committee and look forward to working with Chairman Putman to help our Conference develop new ideas for our conference. I congratulate him on his victory. “The debate and discussions leading up to these elections have brought new ideas to the forefront and offer the opportunity for Republicans to renew our momentum and address the challenges facing our nation.” ###
01.25.2006	The following op-ed was published in Roll Call on January 25, 2006: By Darrell Issa Success comes from identifying opportunities and being bold enough to push one’s efforts to a successful conclusion. With the right vision and a committed leader, the Republican Policy Committee can serve this role for the Republican Conference to help it find success. Today, the Policy Committee is our Conference’s liaison to the nation’s think tanks, scholars, government agencies and private-sector experts on the issues before Congress. It also has a stated purpose of being a forum for the development of legislative initiatives. These functions are important and create the foundation for the committee, but the RPC must do more to help our Conference. It must seek out and identify the opportunities that will lead us to legislative and political success. For the past few years, our Conference has struggled to identify opportunities to be more proactive. We have waited too long to address lobbying reform, energy prices, illegal immigration and the growth in government spending despite repeated warnings. In each instance, the knocking sound of angry voters finally jolted us into action, but we will face more serious consequences unless we make needed changes. I have proposed a “Blueprint for the Policy Committee to Protect Our Republican Majority.” The four cornerstones of my plan are: 1) policy anchored in principle; 2) innovation and a long-term strategy for success; 3) outreach to Members and providing on-demand resources for offices; and 4) building an effective conduit to House leadership. You can read more about the details of my plan for the RPC by visiting www.issa.house.gov/policy. As the CEO of an industry-leading consumer electronics firm, I was elected chairman of the Consumer Electronics Association. In this role, I led a group of business leaders who were fierce competitors in the marketplace in pursuit of a common agenda to benefit the entire industry. Different viewpoints, even competing interests, can work together to identify opportunities for mutual benefit. In 2003, I led a voter uprising against then-California Gov. Gray Davis (D) following his mismanagement of one crisis after another in our state. Californians were paying too much for energy, businesses were being forced to move from the state to avoid higher taxes and we were facing huge budget deficits. I saw an opportunity for Republicans to offer Californians a better vision for their state, and I ran with it, not knowing exactly where it would lead. It led to a historic recall vote that steam-rolled the national Democratic establishment who came to Davis’ aid, and installed Arnold Schwarzenegger as California’s new Republican governor. He saw a vision for California, and I helped make that a reality. House Republicans have a vision for our party, and I want to make that a reality. The important things for the chairman of the RPC to have are fresh and bold ideas for discussion, a vision to help the committee play a more active role in developing policy, a commitment to getting more members to participate in discussions, an ability to work with our Conference to identify opportunities for legislative success and the energy to see them through to successful conclusion. The chairman of the RPC also must recognize the talent of our members and must work with them to develop a clear, concise policy on a particular issue that can be taken to House leadership. The chairman of the committee also must reach out to Republican organizations such as the Republican Study Committee, Value Action Team, Main Street Partnership and other important organizations to facilitate policy discussions in a forum that is open to all members of our Conference. These organizations are doing exceptional work and, through a broader discussion of their ideas, we can write better legislation. As I did with the CEA, I will reach out to all members of our Conference to try to guide the development of policies that embrace our core values: fiscal restraint, limited government, lower taxes and individual responsibility. I will work with Policy Committee members and urge them to think out of the box to bring new ideas to our Conference. Our party’s principles are strong and the membership of our Conference is talented. We must do more to use these strengths to seek out the challenges facing America and avoid the rut of passive routine that engulfed the Democrats in 1994. We must look for new ways to develop ideas and look to the private sector for inspiration and technology. The world is changing — we must continue to lead and innovate or risk being left behind. ###
01.13.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) today announced his candidacy for House Republican Policy Committee Chairman. “As Chairman of the House Policy Committee, I intend to use my experience working with technology in the private sector to formulate a better long-term and more inclusive approach to formulating policy,” said Issa the founder and former President and CEO of Directed Electronics. The office of Policy Committee Chairman was vacated today following the announcement of Chairman John Shadegg that he would resign to seek the office of Republican Majority Leader. Congressman Darrell Issa’s letter to Republican colleagues announcing his candidacy follows below: January 13, 2006 Dear Republican Colleague: Today, I am announcing my candidacy for Policy Chairman and I ask for your support. I have served as a member of the Policy Committee since my election in 2000. I believe in the need for this very important committee and I want to continue to make it relevant in the policy discussions that our conference will have in the 2nd Session of Congress; specifically, in the issues of Immigration, Health Care, Telecommunications and Tax Reform. These and many other issues of importance to our Conference need to be outlined and discussed, because our constituents demand nothing less from us. Together, we can formulate policy suggestions that can propel us forward as the Party of the people, unlike our Democratic counterparts, who have proposed nothing of substance since we assumed the majority in 1994. As Chairman of the Policy Committee, I commit to you that I will use my experience from the private sector to harness the potential of the latest communication and information technologies to help us formulate a better long-term and more inclusive approach to issues. With your help and guidance we can truly make a difference. I have a vision that the House Policy Committee can serve as a regular resource for Members to learn more about current and upcoming policy questions, a directory for organizations and individuals currently working to find solutions Congress will one day implement, and as a vehicle for sharing their ideas and concerns with other Members, the Executive Branch, and outside organizations. The Policy Committee can and will be used by both our Members and our Leadership to make sure that thorough discussions will take place and thoughtful proposals will be acted upon by our Leadership. Thank you for considering my candidacy. I look forward to working with you to continue and enhance a forward thinking approach on the policy issues of the time. Your Colleague, Darrell IssaMember of Congress ###
12.17.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives voted 239 to 182 to crack down on illegal immigration, to institute real workplace enforcement against employers who hire illegal aliens, and to strengthen border security – including the construction of a 698 mile border fence across the Southwest. “This legislation represents a landmark victory for advocates of tightening enforcement of immigration laws and border security,” said Congressman Issa who helped craft the measure. “Ever since I came to Congress five years ago, I’ve told my colleagues that the House needs to take action to stop the costs and dangers posed by illegal immigration.” H.R. 4437, The Border Protection, Antiterrorism, and Illegal Immigration Control Act of 2005 includes provisions authored by Rep. Issa that create stringent minimum sentences for aliens illegally present who have been previously deported, aliens with past criminal records, and those who engage in the smuggling of aliens. The measure also includes a provision requested by Rep. Issa that creates a requirement that the U.S. Attorney General provide Congress with an annual report on efforts to prosecute criminal aliens. Judiciary Committee Chairman James Sensenbrenner who championed the H.R. 4437 stated, "We are a nation of immigrants and a nation of laws - this legislation reinforces both of these values. This legislation aims to prevent illegal immigration and reestablish respect for our immigration laws. Those breaking the law will be held accountable, whether they are smugglers cruelly trafficking in human beings, employers hiring illegal workers, or alien gang members terrorizing communities." Highlights of H.R. 4437: Combats the hiring of illegal workers by requiring all employers to determine whether employees are legally eligible to work. The provision makes mandatory an employment eligibility verification system to confirm or deny the authenticity of Social Security numbers offered by new hires. This legislation will require all employers to check new employees against this database and increases civil and criminal penalties for knowingly hiring or employing an illegal worker. Ends the "catch and release” gap in our nation's homeland security efforts. This year alone, some 120,000 illegal aliens from countries other than Mexico (OTMs) have been apprehended by the Border Patrol, only to be released due to a lack of detention space. This provision requires mandatory detention for all aliens who are apprehended at U.S. land borders attempting to cross illegally and requires all illegal immigrants apprehended at U.S. borders to remain in custody until removal from the country. Ensure Coverage of Entire Border. Broadens the border fence and incorporates widespread, state-of-the-art surveillance technology, including cameras, sensors, radar, satellite, and Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), in order to ensure coverage of the entire border. Increase Penalties for Alien Smuggling. Under current law, individuals convicted of alien smuggling crimes often receive lenient sentences. These provisions, incorporating Congressman Issa’s Criminal Alien Accountability Act, H.R. 3150, would greatly increase criminal penalties for alien smuggling by establishing mandatory minimum sentences. These provisions were recommended by a panel of border-area U.S. Attorneys to make it easier to deport smugglers and illegal entrants. Crackdown on Alien Gang Members. This provision would render alien street gang members inadmissible and deportable, and authorize the Attorney General to designate groups as criminal street gangs if they meet certain criteria. This provision also mandates the detention of alien street gang members and bars alien gang members from receiving humanitarian benefits. Increase Penalties for Aliens Reentering Illegally. Incorporates H.R. 3150, introduced by Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) that would stiffen penalties, including establishing mandatory minimum sentences, for aliens who reenter the United States after having been removed. Barring Terrorist Aliens from Naturalization-This provision bars aliens who are terrorists or security risks from becoming U.S. citizens. Joint DHS/DOD Strategy-Requires the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) to develop a joint strategic plan that will provide the Border Patrol agents with military support to increase surveillance along the border. Authorize Additional Inspectors-Authorizes 1,000 new, full-time port of entry inspectors over the next four years and the training of 1,500 additional K-9 units over the next five years. ###
12.15.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives voted 215-213 to approve H.R. 3010, the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2006 that includes language that will facilitate and encourage the creation of a national gynecological cancer awareness campaign. The provision, supported and requested by Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) includes Congress’ request for a $100,000 national education campaign for gynecologic cancer. The legislation further urges the Centers for Disease Control to coordinate this effort both with the Office of Women’s Health and qualified non-profit private sector organizations. A separate provision, requested by Rep. Issa encourages the Secretary to coordinate existing gynecological cancer awareness programs and to consider the development of a national awareness campaign. “By increasing efforts to coordinate educational awareness initiatives about gynecological cancers we can save lives and the long term costs to our healthcare system of treating cancers that can be prevented or easily treated with early detection,” said Rep. Issa. In March, Reps. Issa, Sander Levin (D-MI), Kay Granger(R-TX), and Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) joined survivors and family members whose lives have been impacted by cancer to announce the reintroduction of “Johanna’s Law: The Gynecologic Cancer Education and Awareness Act of 2005.” “This provision will go a long way toward meeting the goals of ‘Johanna’s Law’ that I introduced earlier this year but there’s still work to be done,” said Issa. “I plan to continue working to ensure that an effective and coordinated federal awareness program for gynecological cancers is fully implemented to end preventable deaths.”
12.08.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Judiciary Committee, today, voted 23 to 15 to approve sweeping border and immigration security legislation mandating that employers use an employment eligibility verification system to prove legal residence of job seekers, stiffer penalties for criminal aliens and alien smugglers, and other measures to enhance border region security. “This legislation makes common sense reforms that will require all employers to verify that job applicants are in the U.S. legally and eligible to work,” said Rep. Darrell Issa. “Employers who violate this provision will face stiff fines. The verification system means the ‘I didn’t know’ defense isn’t going to cut it anymore.” H.R. 4437, The Border Protection, Antiterrorism, and Illegal Immigration Control Act of 2005 includes provisions authored by Rep. Issa that create stringent minimum sentences for aliens illegally present who have been previously deported, aliens with past criminal records, and those who engage in the smuggling of aliens. “This provision will hand prosecutors a simple tool to put dangerous illegal aliens and repeat immigration violators behind bars,” said Issa. “Minimum prison sentences for repeat offenders will create a deterrent to those who would flaunt our immigration laws.” Some Highlights of H.R. 4437: · Combat Hiring of Illegal Workers – Institutes an employment eligibility verification system in which employers will check the Social Security numbers and alien identification numbers provided by employees against Social Security Administration and Department of Homeland Security (DHS) records in order to weed out fraudulent numbers and ensure that their employees are not working in the U.S. illegally. Modifies provisions from H.R. 19 introduced by Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Calif.) by building upon a voluntary pilot program currently in use. Increases civil and criminal penalties for knowingly hiring or employing an illegal worker. · Increase Penalties for Aliens Reentering Illegally – Incorporates H.R. 3150, introduced by Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) that would stiffen penalties, including establishing mandatory minimum sentences, for aliens who reenter the United States after having been removed. · Increase Penalties for Alien Smuggling – Under current law, individuals convicted of alien smuggling crimes often receive lenient sentences. These provisions introduced by Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) would greatly increase criminal penalties for alien smuggling by establishing mandatory minimum sentences, among other things. These provisions were recommended by a panel of border-area U.S. Attorneys to make it easier to deport smugglers and illegal entrants. · Crackdown on Alien Gang Members – This provision incorporates H.R. 2933, introduced by Rep. Randy Forbes (R-Va.). This provision would render alien street gang members inadmissible and deportable, and authorize the Attorney General to designate groups or associations as criminal street gangs if they meet certain criteria. Also mandates the detention of alien street gang members and bars alien gang members from receiving humanitarian benefits. · Aggravated Felony Provisions – The provisions would make aggravated felons inadmissible and would bar refugees and asylees with aggravated felony convictions from receiving green cards. · Cooperation between Border Sheriffs and Federal Law Enforcement – Based upon Rep. Culberson’s (R-Tex.) “Border Law Enforcement Act of 2005" (H.R. 4360), authorizes and reimburses local sheriffs in the 29 counties along the southern border to enforce the immigration laws if authorized under a separate written agreement pursuant to section 287(g) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), and to transfer illegal aliens to federal custody. It also specifically reimburses those Sheriffs for costs associated with detaining illegal aliens whom they arrest until they are able to hand them over to federal authorities. This provision deems aliens in Sheriffs’ custody to be in federal custody once determined to be in an unlawful status. · Increasing DHS Authority for Long-Term Detention – The U.S. Supreme Court has limited DHS’s ability to detain dangerous aliens with decisions that have forced hundreds of dangerous aliens, such as murderers, to be released into American communities. One alien released because of these Court decisions later shot a state trooper in the head. This change would amend the INA to allow for continued detention of aliens who pose a threat to Americans. · Renewing DHS Authority to Use Reinstatement of Removal Process – In Morales-Izquierdo v. Ashcroft, the Ninth Circuit recently invalidated DHS reinstatement of removal regulations, which allows DHS to remove an alien previously deported by simply reinstating the alien’s prior order of removal. The House Judiciary Committee has been told that this procedure was used in some 90,000 cases last year, and the Ninth Circuit’s decision affects 40% of removals in the Ninth Circuit. This amendment to the INA would clarify DHS’s authority to reinstate orders. · Barring Terrorist Aliens from Naturalization – This provision bars aliens who are terrorists or security risks from becoming U.S. citizens. · Deportation for DUI – Render multiple DUI offenses a deportable offense for aliens. ###
11.28.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Darrell Issa (CA-49) released the following statement today in response to Rep Cunningham’s guilty plea in federal court this morning: “Duke Cunningham’s admission of wrongdoing today is a disappointment for San Diegans and for the many citizens, myself included, who supported his election and public service over the course of many years. We wanted desperately to hear Duke explain his conduct in a way that made sense to us, but increasingly feared that would not happen. Today, he acknowledged that he repeatedly broke the law. “Our citizens have a right to demand that public officials live under the same laws that apply to them. Rep. Cunningham’s conduct fell below the standard the public demands of its elected representatives. The FBI and U.S. Attorney acted appropriately and quickly to collect the facts and to bring a resolution to charges against Rep. Cunningham. Duke’s resignation today will allow the voters in the 50th district to quickly elect a new representative and put this unfortunate chapter behind them.” ###
11.18.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives, last night, voted 217-215 to approve nearly $50 billion in federal budget savings over the next five years to partially offset Hurricane Katrina relief that has been estimated to cost $160 billion. “The passage of this bill is a long overdue step toward fiscal restraint for the future generations who will otherwise have to pay this debt off with interest,” said Rep. Issa who cast on of the decisive votes in favor of the bill. “This bill reduces spending across a broad spectrum of programs and projects. It is a win for advocates of fiscal restraint.” “I will continue to urge my colleagues to find more areas where meaningful savings for taxpayers can be achieved. Fiscal restraint necessitates a long term commitment to curbing non-essential spending and we must not relent in this effort.” ###
11.17.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives, last night, voted 421 to 2 to pass H.Con.Res. 230, waning Russia about the risks of continued failure to protect intellectual property rights. The resolution, sponsored by Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) , unequivocally states the sense of Congress that before Russia is allowed to join the World Trade Organization, “the Russian Federation must ensure that intellectual property is securely protected in law and in practice, by demonstrating that the country is willing and able to meet its international obligations in this respect.” “The Russian government has not taken the measures necessary to show that they are serious about eliminating intellectual property theft,” said Rep. Issa in a statement for the Congressional Record. “As long as sixteen government owned plants continue to illegally produce these materials, we cannot take seriously their claims that they are cracking down.” In July, following an official visit to Russia that included meetings with members of Russia’s Duma, Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) and twenty-seven other members of Congress asked President George W. Bush to urge Russian President Vladimir Putin, to institute a serious crackdown and reform of Russia’s copyright piracy and intellectual property theft. Russia is currently the number one exporter of pirated movies and CDs. ###
11.09.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa will host informational meetings for 49th Congressional District seniors on Friday, November 11 in Perris and on Saturday, November 12 in Oceanside on the new Medicare Prescription Drug coverage that starts January 1, 2006. Medicare officials will be on hand to outline the enrollment options available and to answer constituent questions about the new Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit. Enrollment for the new benefit begins November 15. Perris Medicare Prescription Drug Plan Informational Meeting Friday, November 11, 2005 – 1:30 PMBoard Room of the Eastern Municipal Water District building 2270 Trumble Road Perris, California Oceanside Medicare Prescription Drug Plan Informational Meeting Saturday, November 12, 2005 – 9:00 AMCommunity Room of the Oceanside Public Library330 North Coast HighwayOceanside, California Constituents who would like directions or more information about these meetings can call 760-599-5000 or 951-693-2447. ###
11.09.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives, today, voted 399 to 17 to give its final approval to the Conference Report on H.R. 2419, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2006 that includes priority projects for the 49th Congressional District requested by Rep. Issa. “I am very pleased that this bill includes $3.75 million for the Murrieta Creek Flood Control project,” said Rep. Issa. “This appropriation will help put in place lasting control mechanisms to protect homes and businesses from the threat of flooding.” “For Oceanside, the $1 million appropriation brings the San Luis Rey River flood control project closer to completion.” The Conference Report on H.R. 2419 provides a total of $30.5 billion in budget authority for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers-Civil, the Department of Interior including the Bureau of Reclamation, the Department of Energy, and several Independent Agencies. Below is a summary of funding for 49th Congressional District projects included in the Conference Report: Murrieta Creek $3,750,000 – The Murrieta Creek Flood Control Project will provide 100 year flood control, environmental restoration, and recreation benefits to the cities of Murrieta and Temecula. Total project costs are approximately $90 million, with the local sponsor furnishing approximately $32 million. San Luis Rey River $1,000,000 – Located along the lower 7.2 miles of the San Luis Rey River, in and around the city of Oceanside, the authorized plan provides 5.4 miles of a double levee, stone-protected channel with a soft bottom, 1330 feet of parapet walls, six interior drainage ponds, and a 5-mile bicycle trail. Oceanside Harbor $936,000 – Maintenance dredging for the entrance to Oceanside and Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton Harbor. Eastern Municipal Water District $1,000,000 – East of the City of Riverside and west of San Jacinto Mountains, the project will consist of preliminary engineering investigations, design, and environmental documentation for over 30 miles of non-reclaimable waste pipelines, and pumping plants required to manage high salinity wastes and brines resulting from industrial processes and water supply desalination. San Diego County Shoreline Study $100,000 – Loss of protective beaches has caused backshore development to be subject to wave attack and flooding for coastal storms, particularly at Oceanside, Carlsbad, Encinitas, Solana Beach, and other communities within San Diego County. Previous studies have revealed that Federal navigation structures at Camp Pendleton MCB have obstructed transport of sand to the beaches down the coast, which contributes to the erosion of these beaches. Damages to coastal residential and commercial properties from storm induced waves have been a constant problem since construction of these navigation structures. ###
10.26.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The nineteen members of the California Republican Congressional delegation have requested a meeting with U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales to discuss, “our frustration with the current policies within the Administration related to the prosecution of criminal aliens.” The letter of request follows the apprehension two weeks ago by the U.S. Border Patrol of illegal alien Alfredo Gonzales Garcia, who has been twice convicted of drug offenses in Orange County and served 3 ½ years in prison, near the border with Mexico. Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista), upon learning that the office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California had declined to prosecute Garcia and that he would have to be deported and released in Mexico, immediately wrote U.S. Attorney Carol Lam to express outrage at the decision not to prosecute Garcia. “Your office has established an appalling record of refusal to prosecute even the worst criminal alien offenders,” wrote Issa. “Your handling of Mr. Garcia is hardly different than the treatment of Antonio Amparo-Lopez, another criminal illegal alien who your office failed to prosecute. Every time one of these criminals is released, our communities become more dangerous.” In January 2004, blatant problems with the prosecution and penalties for ‘coyotes’ and other aliens with serious criminal records were brought to the attention of Congressman Issa. In November 2003, a coyote named Antonio Amparo-Lopez was apprehended in the act of alien smuggling and later released by border patrol agents after the Department of Justice decided not to prosecute the case. Amparo-Lopez, whose age ranges from 24 to 30, depending on which of 21 aliases he uses, has been arrested more than 20 times and deported. Late last year, the U.S. Attorney’s office in San Diego announced that they would scale back prosecutions of alien smugglers. “Our resources are limited and we have numerous and competing enforcement priorities to consider and meet,” said Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Peak. The U.S. Attorney’s office had stated prior to this policy that it had neither the manpower nor funding to prosecute any but the most egregious cases of smuggling. “The Administration is talking about new measures to strengthen border security but they’re not even making the most basic efforts to prosecute known criminals who are trying to enter our country,” said Rep. Issa. “They say they don’t have the resources for these prosecutions but they never ask Congress for help or even tell us what they would need to pursue these cases. It’s a very frustrating situation and I’m hoping that Attorney General Gonzales can tell us what resources he needs prosecute these criminal aliens.” ###
10.19.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa, 80 other Republican Members of Congress, and one Democrat have written President George W. Bush to clearly state that there should be no new guestworker program until the Executive Branch better enforces current immigration laws. “As Congress continues to debate how we can best achieve a manageable immigration system to meet labor needs, the Bush Administration must demonstrate a willingness and ability to effectively enforce existing immigration laws,” said Rep. Darrell Issa. “There have been too many broken promises about enforcing immigration laws and securing our borders. We need to see a serious commitment on enforcement before we enact a guestworker program.” ###
10.07.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa today announced the introduction H.R. 3970, the Bioterror and Pandemic Preparedness Protection Act, in order to ensure that needed vaccines are produced and made publicly available in the event that they are required to address an outbreak of Avian Bird Flu or other biological threat. “The emerging threat of Avian Bird Flu and other diseases necessitates taking steps to ensure that if we need quick access to a vaccine being developed, we aren’t faced with legal impediments to acquiring the vaccine for the public on short notice,” said Rep. Issa. Under H.R. 3970, during a declared public health emergency, barriers to the use of vaccines under development could be eliminated by the Secretary of Health and Human Services. This special approval would allow manufacturers to release, and healthcare professionals to administer, vaccines for public use that they would, otherwise, be unavailable under existing liability laws by limiting liability to instances of intentional misconduct or gross negligence. “This is a provision that I hope will never be needed. But, if we are in the midst of a pandemic, similar to the one we faced in 1918, I’d rather have access to vaccines that have proven successful even if they haven’t finished all phases of testing,” said Issa. H.R. 3970 has been referred to the House Judiciary Committee, on which Rep. Issa sits. ###
09.29.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives, today, by a vote of 383 to 31 adopted a resolution sponsored by Rep. Darrell Issa expressing the belief of Congress that the words ‘under God’ in the Pledge of Allegiance are constitutional and urging the Supreme Court to clarify the constitutional status of the Pledge as soon as possible. “We come to this juncture because of an attempt by a very few to scour the public space of religious symbols and expression,” said Rep. Issa in a statement for the Congressional Record. “They have targeted federal, state and local governments in a determined effort to erase every single reference to the existence of a higher power from public life. While they claim to be fighting the establishment of religion, what they are really doing is eliminating the freedom of religious expression.” Currently, the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals in the western portion of the country and the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals in the Mid-Atlantic have made conflicting rulings on the constitutionality of the words “under God” in the Pledge. The text of H.Con.Res. 245 follows below: H. CON. RES. 245 Expressing the sense of Congress that the United States Supreme Court should speedily find the use of the Pledge of Allegiance in schools to be consistent with the Constitution of the United States. Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), That it is the sense of Congress that-- (1) judicial rulings by the United States Court of Appeals for the 4th and 9th circuits have split on the issue of whether the Constitution allows the recitation of the Pledge of Allegiance in schools; (2) the ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for the 4th circuit correctly finds the Constitution does allow such a recitation; and (3) the United States Supreme Court should at the earliest opportunity resolve this conflict among the circuits in a manner which recognizes the importance and Constitutional propriety of the recitation of the Pledge of Allegiance by school children. ###
09.27.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Nineteen Members of the U.S. House of Representatives, including Rep. Darrell Issa, have asked President George W. Bush to dedicate more resources to the prosecution of human smugglers known as “coyotes.” “We ask that you dedicate additional resources and direct U.S. Attorneys in the Southwest region to make the prosecution of human smugglers a priority,” wrote the Members in the letter sent yesterday. Last year, the U.S. Attorney’s office in San Diego stated that it did not have the resources to prosecute human smugglers in all but the most egregious cases. “The de facto catch and release program for alien smugglers is outrageous,” said Rep. Issa who has sought to increase funding for the prosecution of smugglers. “We’re spending money on border security to stop smugglers but when we catch them we just let them go. The failure to prosecute smugglers is diminishing the value of our investments in border security.” ###
09.22.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa made the following statements about the sentencing of JDL terrorist Earl Krugel who pled guilty and was today sentenced to 20 years for his role in a plot to bomb targets in Southern California including the office of Rep. Darrell Issa: “I would like to thank the FBI for preventing the conspirators from carrying out their planned acts of terrorism and the many individuals, including the office of the U.S. Attorney, who have worked to bring justice to those who participated in this plot. “I am thankful to my friends and colleagues, particularly those from the Jewish community, who have condemned these extremists who, motivated by hate and a desire to intimidate, plotted to bomb targets in Southern California. “I hope that today’s sentencing will serve as a strong deterrent to anyone who would consider using violence to express their hatred or to use intimidation to further their political agenda. Such actions are terrorism and our nation must respond strongly so that domestic terrorism is never considered a viable option for those with extreme views.” ###
09.20.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa, today, announced the launch of a new user-friendly website (www.issa.house.gov) that will help interested 49th Congressional District residents quickly find information about Congressman Issa’s legislative initiatives and constituent services offered through his office. “I hope this new site helps my constituents learn more about my efforts to represent them in Congress and the many ways I may be able to help them in their dealings with the Federal government,” said Issa. “The internet has become such an important way of sharing information. This website will provide a gateway for those who need to contact me and will provide some basic information about how I can help.” The new website will allow 49th District voters and students to: View an automatically updated summary of legislation currently sponsored and cosponsored by Rep. Issa Review a history of all media releases issued through Rep. Issa’s Congressional office Send a message to Congressman Issa Electronically request assistance with a case involving a branch of the Federal government Request a flag flown over the Capitol or a tour in Washington Apply for an internship or a nomination to one of the military service academies ###
09.16.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa, today, announced the introduction of H.Con.Res. 245, which expresses the sense of Congress that the United States Supreme Court should speedily find the use of the Pledge of Allegiance in schools to be consistent with the Constitution of the United States. Rep. Issa yesterday criticized the recent Federal District Court decision that the words “under God” in the Pledge of Allegiance are unconstitutional and called upon the U.S. Supreme Court to resolve the lingering controversy at the earliest possible opportunity. “The Pledge of Allegiance is, again, under attack,” said Rep. Issa . “Congress must clearly state that the Pledge is constitutional and urge the Supreme Court to act as quickly as possible to resolve the current ambiguity so that schoolchildren in parts of California are no longer prohibited from reciting the Pledge.” H. CON. RES. 245 Expressing the sense of Congress that the United States Supreme Court should speedily find the use of the Pledge of Allegiance in schools to be consistent with the Constitution of the United States. Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), That it is the sense of Congress that-- (1) judicial rulings by the United States Court of Appeals for the 4th and 9th circuits have split on the issue of whether the Constitution allows the recitation of the Pledge of Allegiance in schools; (2) the ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for the 4th circuit correctly finds the Constitution does allow such a recitation; and (3) the United States Supreme Court should at the earliest opportunity resolve this conflict among the circuits in a manner which recognizes the importance and Constitutional propriety of the recitation of the Pledge of Allegiance by school children. ###
09.15.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa condemned yesterday’s Federal District Court decision that the words “under God” in the Pledge of Allegiance are unconstitutional and called upon the U.S. Supreme Court to resolve the lingering controversy at the earliest possible opportunity. “Today’s decision follows an erroneous precedent set by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals that the words ‘under God’ are not constitutional,” said House Judiciary Committee member Darrell Issa. “The Supreme Court could have resolved this controversy last year but it did not set a strong precedent that upholds the constitutionality of the Pledge.” “The framers of our Constitution envisioned a nation where all religions, including the right not to believe, were tolerated – not a nation devoid of religious expression,” said Issa. “Judges are supposed to interpret the Constitution, the Supreme Court needs to fully overrule the wrongheaded ruling by the Ninth Circuit and eliminate the legal confusion this ruling continues to create.” Currently, the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals in the western portion of the country and the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals in the Mid-Atlantic have made conflicting rulings on the constitutionality of the words “under God” in the Pledge. “At a time when the United States has two openings on the Supreme Court, yesterday’s decision underscores the need for judges who interpret existing law instead of legislating from the bench.” ###
09.14.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa, today, applauded the announcement by Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff that he will exercise the authority granted to him earlier this year by Congress in the “REAL ID Act” to expedite construction of the 14-mile U.S./Mexico border fence near San Diego. “I voted to give the Secretary of Homeland Security the authority to waive environmental requirements because studies and litigation have held up completion of the border fence for far too long,” said Rep. Issa who was an original cosponsor of the REAL ID Act. “Congress recognized that we face so many threats from terrorists and have such a problem with illegal immigration that it was time to cut the red tape. I am pleased to see that Secretary Chertoff has decided to exercise his authority to complete the fence.” “Completing the Border Infrastructure System will strengthen our efforts to reduce illegal entry to the United States. Congress provided us the authority to ensure this project is completed and I intend to use it. Through this system with advanced technology and additional personnel we can make substantial progress in this section of our border,” said Secretary Chertoff. Once constructed, the 14-mile border barrier will strengthen Department efforts to further reduce illegal entry to the United States and improve border security by:Including multiple physical layers of securityBuilding access roads to enable Border Patrol to speed response effortsInstalling stadium style lighting to deter border crossersInstalling surveillance cameras to monitor incursion In 1996, Congress mandated the construction of the Border Infrastructure System. However, nearly nine years after the passage of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act mandating the project, litigation and environmental permitting have caused the project to remain incomplete. The construction of the border fence near San Diego was planned for two phases. Phase I provides a continuous roadway system with security barriers and lighting within the middle 9 miles of the project area. Phase II extends the Phase I roadway system, barriers and lighting west through the Tijuana Valley Regional Park to the Pacific Ocean, and east to Otay Mountain. The construction of Phase I resulted in reductions in illegal border crossing in the San Diego area. This first phase also reduced negative environmental impacts to the area caused by illegal immigration, such as trails of garbage, destruction of vegetation, and trampling of sensitive lands. The remaining tasks of this phase were delayed by environmental permitting issues. Phase II has also been delayed due to series of environmental studies and discussions with interested parties and by litigation. “While the completion of the border fence should help reduce illegal immigration in the San Diego sector and should free up border patrol resources for other important tasks, much more needs to be done,” said Issa. “The failure of the U.S. Attorney’s office in San Diego to prosecute ‘coyotes’ has created a de facto “catch and release” program for alien smuggling that a completed border fence will not fix. I will continue to fight for real and aggressive enforcement of our nation’s immigration laws.” ###
09.07.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa, today, urged Congress to adopt legislation to help raise awareness about how early detection of gynecologic cancers can increase the probability of successful treatment. “By educating women about these cancers, we have an opportunity to save lives,” said Issa during a hearing on Gynecologic Cancers of the Government Reform Subcommittee on Criminal Justice, Drug Policy and Human Resources. “The messages are simple: learn the symptoms, have an annual exam and talk to your doctor.” In March, Rep. Issa along with Reps. Rosa DeLauro, Kay Granger, and Sander Levin introduced H.R. 1245, “Johanna’s Law: The Gynecologic Cancer Education and Awareness Act of 2005,” which would provide for programs to increase the awareness and knowledge of women with respect to gynecologic cancers, and would also include demonstration grants for outreach and education. The idea for “Johanna’s Law,” was conceived by Sheryl Silver, who lost her sister, Johanna, to ovarian cancer following a three-and-a-half year battle with the disease. “Awareness can save lives. It is essential that Congress act to promote educational initiatives to prevent gynecologic cancer deaths,” said Issa. “Our coalition of cancer survivors, doctors and those whose lives have been affected by gynecologic cancers will continue to press for the passage of Johanna’s Law.” H.R. 1245 currently has 221 cosponsors. ###
08.11.2005	VISTA, C.A. – Longtime Oceanside resident George Barrante has been named by Rep. Darrell Issa as a delegate to the 2005 White House Conference on Aging to be held in Washington, D.C., on December 11-14, 2005. “George Barrante’s experience as a community leader will make him an effective voice for seniors in the 49th District at the White House Conference on Aging,” said Rep. Issa. “As a life member of the Disabled Veterans of America, and member of American Legion, National Association of Uniformed Services (NAUS), AARP and the Retired Officers Association, George has a broad perspective on the challenges our nation faces as we seek to ensure that current and future retirees can have a comfortable retirement and access to needed medical treatment and other facilities.” "I share Representative Issa's passion to identify and solve the problems of the aging and will meet with seniors throughout the district to gather information for the conference,” said George Barrante on accepting Rep. Issa’s request to represent the 49th District at the conference. The White House Conference on Aging occurs once a decade to make aging policy recommendations to the President and Congress, and to assist the public and private sectors in promoting dignity, health, independence and economic security of current and future generations of older persons. The 2005 White House Conference on Aging occurs as the first wave of the baby boom generation prepares for retirement, creating an important opportunity to creatively assess aging in America and improve the lives of older Americans. ###
07.29.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives, today, voted 412-8 to approve the conference report for H.R. 3, The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users, which includes a provision, originally requested by Rep. Darrell Issa, that allows states to create programs allowing gas-electric hybrid-vehicles to use carpool lanes. “Allowing hybrid vehicles to use carpool lanes rewards makers of innovative technology and consumers who choose to drive fuel efficient and environmentally friendly vehicles,” said Rep. Issa. “I am extremely pleased that California and other states will now have the option of allowing hybrid vehicles access to carpool lanes,” said Rep. Issa. “This provision will allow California’s law, which permits some hybrids to use HOV lanes, to go into effect.” ###
07.28.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Representative Darrell Issa (R-CA), Chairman of the House Energy and Resources Subcommittee, today, praised final passage of the conference report on H.R. 6, the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The House of Representatives today approved the bill by a vote of 275-156, sending the conference report to the Senate for an anticipated vote tomorrow. Issa, a member of the conference committee stated, “Since February of this year, the one constant message I have heard at hearings in my role as Chairman is the need for a diverse supply of power sources that are clean and efficient to meet America’s growing energy needs. The passage of this bill will result in greater energy efficiency and conservation. A clean energy revolution in this country is underway.” “This bill contains important provisions to promote solar energy through tax credits and provisions that will give California the flexibility to meet its stringent vehicle emission standards without unnecessarily burdening consumers,” said Issa about provisions he had urged fellow conferees to include in the final report. “I commend Chairman Joe Barton and all the conferees for their hard work and was pleased to see to that this legislation authorizes the continued use of Energy Savings Performance Contracts that have over recent years provided the federal government with an effective tool to rapidly improve the energy efficiency of buildings without increasing costs to the taxpayer. I am also pleased that the legislation authorizes the use of additional transaction authority to give the Department of Energy more flexibility in critical research and development efforts,” said Chairman Issa in reference to provisions in the Energy Policy Act that fell under the jurisdiction of the House Government Reform Committee. President George Bush has called the energy legislation critical to economic growth and national security. Since coming to Washington in January 2001, the President has stressed the need for a comprehensive energy policy and has shown leadership by calling for action on energy development and conservation. The Senate is expected to pass the bill tomorrow, finally satisfying President Bush’s goal of signing into law a comprehensive energy bill. The bill includes measures designed to promote domestic production of oil and natural gas to reduce our dependence on foreign sources. It will spur development of clean energy sources like nuclear, clean coal, and renewables, and promote energy conservation. It will also significantly strengthen the nation's electricity grid. ###
07.27.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives, today, voted 428 – 0 to condemn the deadly terrorist attacks in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, on July 23, 2005, and to express solidarity of the people and Government of the United States with the people and Government of Egypt as they recover from these cowardly and inhuman attacks. “These attacks, again, make plain the fact that the Global War on Terrorism is not a war of the West against the Muslim world but a war being fought between those who value freedom, democracy, and a respect for human rights and those who kill innocent civilians,” said Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA), the sponsor of the resolution. “Egypt is a friend and ally of the United States. The people of the United States stand by the people of Egypt at this time of tragedy.” “As we know all too well, terrorists remain committed to senseless killings of innocent people. Their evil must be defeated. That a suicide attacker would ram a pickup truck packed with 660 pounds of explosives into a hotel is just the most recent demonstration of the viciousness of these killers,” said Government Reform Chairman Tom Davis (R-VA). “I am proud to join President Bush in expressing the solidarity of the American people with the Egyptian people in the aftermath of the July 23 attacks.” “The attacks in Sharm El Sheikh were unconscionable acts of tragedy and terror,” said Rep. Robert Wexler (D-FL). “At this difficult time, the American people stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the people of Egypt in condemning these reprehensible and senseless acts. As partners in the war against terror, the United States and Egypt are united in our struggle against Al Qaeda and desire for security and peace.” H.Res. 384 Condemning in the strongest terms the terrorist attacks in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, on July 23, 2005, and for other purposes. Whereas on July 23, 2005, a series of explosions at tourist facilities in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, planned and carried out by terrorists, resulted in the death of scores of civilians and the injury of hundreds of others; Whereas the people of Egypt have been subjected to several other terrorist deadly attacks over the past year;Whereas Egypt’s appointed ambassador to Iraq, Dr. Ihab al-Sherif, was kidnapped and executed by terrorists in Baghdad during July 2005; and Whereas President George W. Bush expressed the solidarity of the people and Government of the United States with the people and Government of Egypt during his visit to the Embassy of Egypt: Now, therefore, be itResolved, That the House of Representatives— (1) condemns in the strongest terms the terrorist attacks on Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt and other terrorist attacks directed against Egypt; (2) expresses its condolences to the families and friends of those individuals who were killed in the attacks and expresses its sympathies to those individuals who have been injured; (3) joins with President George W. Bush in expressing the solidarity of the people and Government of the United States with the people and Government of Egypt as they recover from these cowardly and inhuman attacks; and (4) expresses its readiness to support the Egyptian authorities in their efforts to bring to justice those individuals responsible for the recent attacks in Egypt and to pursue, disrupt, undermine, and dismantle the networks which plan and carry out such attacks. ###
07.22.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – A study released today by the United States Government Accountability Office (GAO), the investigative arm of Congress, was unable to answer central questions about the effectiveness of Interior Checkpoints, like those located on the I-5 near San Clemente and the I-15 near Temecula, because the Border Patrol, “does not routinely evaluate the effectiveness of checkpoint operations, or their costs.” “This study reveals that the Border Patrol does not have the data necessary to properly manage the resources allocated to the interior checkpoints,” said Congressman Darrell Issa, who requested the study in January 2004. “Border Patrol agents are valuable resources and we must continue to look for ways to maximize their effectiveness through proactive efforts like the Mobile Patrol Groups who apprehended 492 illegal immigrants in fewer than three weeks last year. This study confirms that smugglers know about these checkpoints and use cell phones and other communication networks to avoid apprehension.” The Lack of Systematic Evaluation Limits the Border Patrol’s Ability to Allocate Resources Based on Need From the GAO Study: “The Border Patrol does not routinely evaluate the effectiveness of checkpoint operations, or their costs.” – What GAO found “Some benefits of interior traffic checkpoints are more easily quantified than others, but a lack of data makes it difficult to estimate both the direct costs of interior traffic checkpoints, resulting from labor and overhead, or indirect costs, such as delays caused to commuters or commercial Shippers.” – p. 6 “As for the cost of checkpoint operations, the Border Patrol did not maintain the costs of checkpoints, either individually or collectively, in readily accessible databases. Data were also not available on some indirect costs, such as those associated with traffic delays and congestion.” – p. 7 “Performance measures of how well a government agency carries out its mission are essential to annual assessment and improvement, not least because such measures help management identify problems and allocate resources to solve them. However, we found that the Border Patrol does not systematically evaluate the effectiveness of interior checkpoint operations.” – p.8 “In the two most recent annual reports, no data or analysis are cited with regard to the performance of interior checkpoints. These reports would be more useful to CBP (Customs and Border Patrol) and the Congress if they included additional measures to compare interior checkpoints’ effectiveness with that of line watch and line patrol operations. This could help to ascertain whether the personnel and equipment resources allocated to differing layers in the multilayered strategy are right- sized.” – p.8 “To better gauge the effects of border control efforts, and in order to more effectively manage and allocate resources, we are recommending that the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection develop performance measures for the Border Patrol in addition to its traditional ones, of the productivity and effectiveness of interior checkpoints. We are also recommending that the Commissioner include in CBP’s Performance and Annual Report data and analysis provided by the additional performance measures on the performance of interior checkpoints and what might be done to improve their effectiveness. In commenting on a draft of this report, DHS agreed with the recommendations and stated that CBP is taking steps to implement them.” – p.9 “Even considering these obstacles to checkpoint cost comparisons, we asked Border Patrol officials whether they could supply us with individual checkpoint operating costs to include facilities, equipment, personnel, and any other costs. Border Patrol officials queried the sectors and stations at the locations we visited and asked whether cost data could be assembled. The sectors and stations responded with what cost data they could locate, but it was not possible to obtain similar data from each location, and the data provided would not be reliable enough to present any meaningful statistics concerning costs of operating interior traffic checkpoints.” – p. 37 “In reviewing Border Patrol reports, and in discussions with Border Patrol officials, we found that the Border Patrol has not systematically evaluated the effectiveness of interior checkpoint operations.” – p. 38 “Establishing and using performance measures for checkpoint operations and other strategy components would allow the Border Patrol to help assess the comparative success of each checkpoint in addressing program goals as well as checkpoints generally in comparison with line and patrol operations. A comparison of the effectiveness of each sector, using performance measures, would permit the Border Patrol to more meaningfully assess the success of its overall strategy than does a count of total apprehensions or contraband seizures. Without knowing how much effort produced an outcome—in this case, apprehensions or contraband seizures—it is difficult to know if one sector or region is performing better than another (on a per input basis).” – p. 39 “Trying to measure the effectiveness of its border enforcement deterrence strategy has been a long-standing challenge for legacy INS and now CBP and the Border Patrol. As many illegal aliens and contraband smugglers continue to evade the border defenses, the need to measure effectiveness and allocate scarce resources grows in significance. In its Performance and Annual Report, CBP uses traditional law enforcement effectiveness measures, such as numbers of apprehensions and contraband seizures to describe the Border Patrol’s performance. While these measures serve as worthwhile indicators, the annual reports do not compare the effectiveness of line watch and line patrol with the effectiveness of interior traffic checkpoints. These traditional measures also do not delineate the performance of permanent, tactical, and nonpermanent checkpoints. In contrast, performance measures that take inputs and outputs into account,such as agent work years divided by apprehensions, provide a basis for helping make decisions about how best to allocate agency resources, in conjunction with other information and data.” – p. 47 “To better gauge the effects of border control efforts, we recommend that the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection: • develop additional performance measures for the Border Patrol for the productivity and effectiveness of interior checkpoints, such as apprehensions per agent work year and cost per apprehension, and • include in CBP’s Performance and Annual Report data and analysis provided by the additional performance measures on the performance of interior checkpoints and what might be done to improve their effectiveness.” – p. 47 Department of Homeland Security Agrees with Study’s Recommendations “We requested comments on a draft of this report from the Secretary of Homeland Security. In its response, DHS said the report is factually correct, agreed with our recommendations, and stated that CBP is taking steps to implement them.” “DHS stated that CBP is in the process of developing such measures for the Border Patrol for fiscal year 2006 and that one or more of the performance measures will gauge the effectiveness of checkpoints.” – p.47-48 Some Good News for Southern California In October 2002, Rep. Issa and administration officials agreed to lift the requirement that freeway checkpoints along I-5 near San Clemente and I-15 outside of Temecula operate 24 hours a day in order to give the Border Patrol more flexibility in its apprehension efforts. Statistics, reported today in the GAO report, show that since this agreement allowing Border Patrol agents to spend less time on the freeways and more time in operations near the border and other high priority tasks went into effect, apprehensions per agent work year at the San Diego sector interior checkpoint have steadily increased from 50 in 2002, to 119 in 2003, to 191 in 2004. San Diego Border Patrol SectorPermanent Checkpoint ApprehensionsFiscal Years 2000 – 2004 Checkpoint/Apprehensions 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 Brownfield 27 179 234 6,434 13,954 Campo 785 253 532 2,210 7,439 San Clemente (I-5) 5,582 4,370 3.312 4,172 3,709 Temecula (I-15) 4,702 2,959 3,265 3,402 4,968 Apprehension statistics, provided to Rep. Issa by the GAO, of interior checkpoint operations among the four permanent checkpoints in the San Diego sector show that apprehensions at the San Clemente and Temecula checkpoints have actually increased from 6,577 in 2002 to 8,677 in 2004 since Rep. Issa’s proposed change went into effect. Moreover, by allocating more Border Patrol resources to checkpoints closer to the U.S./Mexico border, agents have increased apprehensions at the Brownfield and Campo checkpoints from 766 in 2002 to 21,393 in 2004. “It’s clear that giving the Border Patrol the ability to proactively stop smugglers and apprehend illegal aliens close to our border is a more productive use of resources than restricting operations to fixed freeway checkpoints more than 50 miles from the border,” said Rep Issa. “Once the Border Patrol implements the GAO’s recommendations to improve their data collection and evaluation of the interior checkpoints, I am confident they will find that moving resources from the freeway checkpoints in San Clemente and Temecula to enforcement efforts closer to the border, locations where illegal immigrants are known to gather, and the routes that smugglers use to evade capture will strengthen apprehension efforts.” ###
07.21.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa, today, announced that President George W. Bush has signed into law H.R. 120, a bill honoring former Riverside and Imperial County Congressman Dalip Singh Saund by naming the U.S. Post Office at 30777 Rancho California Road in Temecula, California, in his honor. Upon taking the oath of office in 1957, Congressman Saund became the first Indian-American and first Asian-American to serve in the U.S. House of Representatives. “Dalip Singh Saund’s legacy was one of achievement. He set goals, overcame obstacles to succeed in business, and later dedicated himself to serving the people of Riverside and Imperial Counties,” said Rep. Issa whose current district includes areas once represented by Congressman Saund. “Congressman Saund is a great American success story. Naming a post office in Temecula, a town in his former district, is an appropriate recognition of his service and achievement.” "Close to fifty years ago the ceiling was broken for an Indian American to serve in Congress when Rep. Saund was elected. While Rep. Jindal carries on that tradition today, future Indian American leaders are making a positive impact in politics to match their success in other parts of American life. From New York to Iowa to Minnesota to the United States House of Representatives, the accomplishments of Indian Americans in politics today is because of the trail blazed by Congressman Saund. I am proud to join my friend Darrell Issa in recognizing the life of this great American," said Congressman Joe Crowley (D-NY). Born in the village of Chhajulwadi in India’s Punjab province in 1899, Dalip Saund came to the United States in 1920 to study at the University of California, Berkeley, where he earned a doctorate in mathematics. For nearly 30 years he was a successful farmer in Imperial Valley. During this time, Saund began fighting discriminatory laws against Indians. In 1949, he and other Indians finally earned the right to become U.S. citizens. In 1952, Saund was elected and served for four years as justice of the peace in Westmorland, California. Dalip Saund made history in 1956 when he became the first Asian elected to Congress. Dalip Saund was elected to the House of Representatives and represented the 29th congressional district during the Eighty-fifth and the two succeeding Congresses. Saund's political career was cut short when he suffered a stroke while campaigning for a fourth term. Rep. Issa and Rep. Crowley also announced their co-sponsorship of H.Res. 31, a resolution sponsored by Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC) calling for a portrait of Rep. Saund to be hung in the Capitol or a House office building. ###
07.20.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives, today, unanimously voted to adopt the Issa Amendment to H.R. 2601, the State Department Authorizations Act. The Issa amendment closes loopholes in the passport issuance and evaluation process in an attempt to strengthen safeguards against fraudulent documents. “The requirements laid out in this amendment will raise the State Department’s ability to detect and eliminate passport fraud,” said Rep. Issa. “It is crucial that we implement these measures to detect those who would otherwise use U.S. documents to enter this country illegally or establish fraudulent identifications.” The Issa amendment establishes a requirement that all passport acceptance agents undergo a federally administered background investigation and a comprehensive training program to improve document fraud detection efforts. The State Department has almost 7,000 passport acceptance agency offices throughout the country, most of which are found in post offices. It is crucial that the employees in these facilities are both properly trained to detect fraud and are thoroughly screened, including a review of criminal and military records. The Issa amendment also expands the authority of the United States government to investigate cases of the illegal sale of U.S. passports and visas by U.S. government personnel stationed abroad. Under current law, U.S. law enforcement is often prevented from searching homes and offices of U.S. government employees stationed overseas in connection with investigations of corruption, especially in visa selling cases. The Issa amendment requires State Department employees to waive their immunity from federal court jurisdiction in cases of suspected visa and passport fraud. The Federal District Court for the District of Columbia will be authorized to issue warrants in such cases and authorizes special agents under the direction of the Director of the Diplomatic Security Service to execute these warrants. ###
07.14.2005	Congressman Darrell Issa today released the following statement on the decision of Rep. Randy “Duke” Cunningham not to seek reelection: “I know this was a difficult decision for a dedicated public servant like Duke Cunningham but I fully support it and hope it allows him to concentrate on cooperating with the current investigation while continuing to effectively serve the people of his district.” ###
07.13.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Judiciary Committee today voted 34-0 to adopt an amendment offered by Rep. Darrell Issa to the reauthorization of the USA PATRIOT and Intelligence Reform Reauthorization Act of 2005 that requires Federal authorities to update courts on authorized uses of ‘roving wiretaps’. “This amendment ensures that judges who authorize the use of roving wiretaps will be kept continually informed about how they are used to monitor suspected terrorists and dangerous criminals,” said Rep. Issa. “Roving wiretaps keep terrorists from evading court-ordered surveillance by simply switching phones. Keeping judges informed about their use adds a check to ensure that these broad surveillance techniques are not abused.” Roving wiretaps are a tool used by law enforcement authorities to monitor suspected terrorists and criminals who could otherwise avoid court-ordered surveillance of specific locations or phone numbers by changing phones before new court orders have been approved by courts. Roving wiretaps permit authorities to tap phone conversations of specific suspects rather than individual phone lines. The Issa amendment stipulates that instances of electronic surveillance directed at a facility or place that is not known at the time the court order is issued must be shared with the authorizing judge within 10 days after the surveillance begins. Authorities must also present the judge with the facts and circumstances that justify the surveillance. “The attacks in London were a reminder that we still face significant threats from terrorist cells who mean us harm. Surveillance of terrorists has prevented attacks, resulted in arrests, and saved lives,” said Issa. “This added provision maintains a needed tool in the War on Terror while protecting our civil liberties.” ###
07.12.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa has asked Base Realignment and Closure Commission Chairman Anthony Principi to abandon the proposed realignment of the Marine Corps Programs Department (MCPD) at Detachment Fallbrook stating that it would not achieve the cost savings envisioned by Pentagon planners and would significantly harm MCPD’s mission. The Pentagon has recommended transferring 118 civilian jobs out of the North County facility. “With respect, I strongly object to the approval of the recommendation to realign the Fallbrook, CA, detachment of Naval Surface Warfare Center Division Crane, IN, known as Marine Corps Programs Department or "MCPD" to Picatinny Arsenal, New Jersey,” wrote Congressman Issa. “I am a strong supporter of the BRAC process, even when assets in my Congressional district are at stake, but this recommendation does not achieve a significant cost savings even before detriment to mission is considered, and the detriment to the mission of MCPD is extreme.” The Marine Corps Programs Department currently tests and evaluates technology that has already been researched, developed, and acquired. While Fallbrook is located in close proximity to firing ranges and other facilities at Camp Pendleton and California desert military facilities, Picatinny Arsenal does not have a mortar or artillery test range suitable to the mission of MCPD. If MCPD continues to test at its current ranges, it will incur great cost in travel and transportation which must be factored into any analysis of cost savings. “The current Fallbrook location gives the Marine Corps Programs Department access to many testing facilities and the Camp Pendleton Marines who will use these technologies on the battlefield,” said Rep. Issa. “Moving these testing facilities away from Marines and away from desert facilities to New Jersey sacrifices these advantages.” Congressman Issa also pointed to the danger of ‘group think’ caused by combining technology development and testing personnel at the same facility, the likely loss of highly experienced personnel caused by a relocation, and overstated administrative cost savings as reasons why the commission should look skeptically at the Pentagon’s recommendation to transfer jobs out of Fallbrook. “It is my ardent recommendation that this realignment not be carried out, as it would severely damage mission capability, devastate morale, would not achieve projected or significant cost savings and would erode the department's valuable independence,” wrote Congressman Issa. ###
07.05.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Diane E. Watson (D-CA) along with twenty-six other members of Congress have asked President George W. Bush, at this week’s G-8 Summit, to urge Russian President Vladimir Putin, to institute a serious crackdown and reform of Russia’s copyright piracy and intellectual property theft. Russia is currently the number one exporter of pirated movies and CDs. “Russian organized crime is increasingly turning to American copyrighted material in order to make a profit,” Issa said. “For one dollar on the streets of Moscow you can find a copy of Star Wars Episode III dubbed in Russian.” “The Russian government has allowed these operations to flourish within their borders for too long,” added Issa, “If President Putin hopes to gain Russian entry into the World Trade Organization, then he must immediately and seriously crackdown on this illegal industry.” “Russia is approaching China as a major violator of intellectual property,” said Congresswoman Watson. “Russia has chosen to participate in the market economies of the world. It is slated to assume the chairmanship of the G-8. Its future accession to the WTO must be made contingent on its protection of intellectual property rights. Now is the time for the Government of Russia to ratchet up its prosecution of IPR violators and its oversight of manufacturers and internet companies that are engaged in massive proliferation of illegally copyrighted movies, videos, DVD’s, and CDs.” The letter to President Bush outlined major benchmarks for the Russian government to achieve, including the following: Quickly enacting and enforcing an optical media law and implementing regulations to stop illegal compact disk manufacturing and distribution, including the imposition of deterrent criminal and administrative penalties for violators irrespective of the amount of harm caused to the holders of the copyright. This law should provide for unannounced inspections and should impose penalties that are a sufficient deterrent to such activity; Placing selected manufacturing plants under 24-hour video and physical monitoring, particularly those plants operating on government property or under on-going criminal investigations; Adoption of a comprehensive regime to control the importation of raw materials and machinery used to produce optical discs and to control their export to other countries; Immediate takedown of sites offering copyright-infringing files, such as allofmp3.com, and the criminal prosecution of these sites’ owners and operators; Issuance of a decree or internal directive from the President and/or Prime Minister making copyright enforcement a high priority, including tasking the Public Prosecutor's Office to vigorously prosecute copyright offenders. “Not only is Russia’s failure to adequately address these long standing issues inconsistent with their current membership and future chairmanship in the G-8, but will greatly undermine Congressional support for Russia's accession to the WTO, and will have broader ramifications on our bilateral economic and political relationships,” said the Members of Congress in their letter to President Bush. “President Putin must understand the consequences of Russia’s failure to act.” ###
07.01.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Darrell Issa (R-CA), Lamar Smith (R-TX), and David Dreier (R-CA) last night introduced legislation establishing minimum federal sentences for illegal aliens who violate deportation orders and ‘coyotes’ who engage in human trafficking of previously deported aliens. “This legislation will ensure that aliens who thumb their noses at deportation orders by illegally reentering our country serve jail time,” said Rep. Issa the lead sponsor of the Criminal Alien Accountability Act. “Deportation orders are less effective if those who choose to disobey them face no additional penalties.” The Criminal Alien Accountability Act establishes that aliens who violate deportation orders will serve at least a one-year minimum sentence before they are, again, deported. Illegal aliens who have been previously convicted of three or more misdemeanors (or one felony) and deported would face a 5 year minimum sentence and those convicted of an aggravated felony would face a 10 year minimum sentence. ‘Coyotes,’ who engage in the human trafficking of previously deported illegal aliens, would also have the same minimum sentences applied to them if any person they attempted to smuggle had been previously deported. In January 2004, blatant problems with the prosecution and penalties for ‘coyotes’ and aliens who violate deportation orders were brought to the attention of Congressman Issa. In November 2003, a coyote named Antonio Amparo-Lopez was apprehended in the act of alien smuggling and later released by border patrol agents after the Department of Justice decided not to prosecute the case. Amparo-Lopez, whose age ranges from 24 to 30, depending on which of 21 aliases he uses, has been arrested more than 20 times and deported. The Criminal Alien Accountability Act will ensure that aliens like Amparo-Lopez serve substantial federal sentences upon conviction. Late last year, the U.S. Attorney’s office in San Diego announced that they would scale back prosecutions of alien smugglers. “Our resources are limited and we have numerous and competing enforcement priorities to consider and meet,” said Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Peak. The U.S. Attorney’s office had stated prior to this policy that it had neither the manpower nor funding to prosecute any but the most egregious cases of smuggling. Congressman Issa and 13 members of California’s Congressional delegation, last year, asked then Attorney General John Ashcroft to adopt a zero-tolerance policy for alien smuggling by prosecuting every instance of human trafficking that could reasonably result in a conviction. “Congress must raise the priority of prosecuting alien smugglers and those who time after time defy deportation orders by stiffening penalties,” said Rep. Issa. “Simply deporting illegal aliens who have recently entered our country gives them an effective ‘do-over’ opportunity to re-enter our country if there are no other penalties. Statistics show that given enough opportunities they will eventually get through our border security.” ###
06.15.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives, yesterday, voted 231 to 195 to increase funding for the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP) by $50 million. SCAAP funding reimburses state and local governments for the costs of incarcerating criminal aliens. “States do not hold authority over national immigration policy, and they should not shoulder the burden of paying for criminal alien incarceration,” said Rep. Issa, a longtime advocate of reimbursing states for 100% of the costs of incarcerating criminal aliens. “It is the responsibility of the Federal government to ensure the security of our borders. Because undocumented aliens pose a great risk to out national security, the Federal government should bear the costs.” The additional SCAAP funding was included as part of H.R. 2862 The Science, the Departments of State, Justice, and Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2006 that was today adopted by a vote of 418 to 7. Yesterday, during consideration of H.R. 2862, Rep. Issa won a commitment from Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Frank Wolf (R-VA) to increase available funding for the prosecution of ‘Coyotes’ who engage in the human trafficking of illegal aliens. “The past two days have yielded opportunities for needed improvements in our nation’s efforts to hold the federal government accountable for its responsibility to protect our borders,” added Rep. Issa. “I intend to continue my efforts to fix our failed system of border of protection and ensure that all immigration is done legally and orderly.” ###
06.14.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa, today, received a commitment from House Appropriations Subcommittee on Science, the Departments of State, Justice, and Commerce, and Related Agencies Chairman Frank Wolf (R-VA) to work to increase available funding for the prosecution of ‘Coyotes’ who engage in the human trafficking of illegal aliens. “I will pledge to the gentleman that we will do everything we can to deal with this problem,” said Chairman Wolf in an exchange with Rep. Issa during consideration of the bill that will fund the Department of Justice in 2006. Late last year, the U.S. Attorney’s office in San Diego announced that they would scale back prosecutions of alien smugglers. “Our resources are limited and we have numerous and competing enforcement priorities to consider and meet,” said Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Peak. The U.S. Attorney’s office had stated prior to this policy that it had neither the manpower nor funding to prosecute any but the most egregious cases of smuggling. Congressman Issa and 13 members of California’s Congressional delegation, last year, asked then Attorney General John Ashcroft to adopt a zero-tolerance policy for alien smuggling by prosecuting every instance of human trafficking that could reasonably result in a conviction. “Illegal immigration not only endangers our nation’s security but in many cases the security of those individuals illegally immigrating,” said Rep. Issa . “Aliens who allow themselves to be smuggled into the United States are at the greatest risk, and it is their smugglers who need to be prosecuted most expeditiously.” Rep. Issa pledged to work with the Appropriations Committee to further efforts tied to the prosecution of alien smugglers. ###
05.17.2005	Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), a member of the Internationals Relations Committee and the Vice-Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism and Non-Proliferation, today, asked House International Relations Committee Chairman Henry Hyde (R-IL) to convene a hearing to investigate how the false report about U.S. interrogators’ handling of the Qur’an, cited in the May 9 edition of Newsweek has affected our efforts to fight the War on Terror. “This false report has led to more than a dozen deaths, jeopardized important relationships and outreach efforts in the War on Terror, given Al-Qaeda another recruiting tool, inflamed anti-American sentiment, and increased the dangers that our Armed Forces personnel face abroad,” wrote Rep. Issa. “While Newsweek’s decision to retract this story should be recognized as a step in the right direction, I believe that a Congressional hearing to ascertain the effects of this false report on the War on Terror and what needs to be done to repair America’s image in the Muslim world would be our best course of action.” “The Muslim world is outraged by Newsweek’s allegations and a thorough public vetting of the facts is our best chance to set the record straight,” said Issa. “This story isn’t going away and we are now hearing in the news that detainees themselves may be responsible for desecrating the Qur’an.” ###
05.05.2005	The House of Representatives, today, by a vote of 368 to 58 passed the conference report on H.R. 1268, the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, which provides needed funding for the War on Terror, tsunami relief, and measures to secure IDs to keep them out of the hands unknown terrorists and other criminals. “The inclusion of the REAL ID Act in this legislation will protect Americans from terrorists who seek to exploit weaknesses in our homeland security,” said Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) who is an original cosponsor of the REAL ID Act. “By allowing homeland security officials to more closely scrutinize asylum claims and by expanding the grounds for deportation to include additional terrorist related activities, this act makes America more secure. The creation of minimal standards for drivers’ licenses will help end the use of fraudulently obtained state IDs to access sensitive areas and board aircraft.” Securing identification documents was a key recommendation of the 9/11 Commission Report. From the 9/11 Commission Report: For terrorists, travel documents are as important as weapons. Terrorists must travel clandestinely to meet, train, plan, case targets, and gain access to attack. – p.384 It is elemental to border security to know who is coming into the country. Today more than 9 million people are in the United States outside the legal immigration system. – p. 390 Recommendation: Secure identification should begin in the United States. The federal government should set standards for the issuance of birth certificates and sources of identification, such as drivers licenses. Fraud in identification documents is no longer just a problem of theft. At many entry points to vulnerable facilities, including gates for boarding aircraft, sources of identification are the last opportunity to ensure that people are who they say they are and to check whether they are terrorists. – p.390 H.R. 1268 will also move forward the completion of the San Diego border fence to close the 3 mile gap known as ‘Smugglers’ Gulch.’ In addition to these terrorism security measures the Conference report on H.R. 1268 proposes a total of $75.9 billion for defense. The bill increases the maximum servicemember Group Life Insurance benefit from $250,000 to $400,000, the onetime death gratuity for families of those killed in combat is increased from $12,000 to $100,000, and $656 million dollars were approved for tsunami relief efforts. “After September 11, the United States made a commitment to fight terrorism,” said Rep. Issa. This bill is essential to the commitment we made and our efforts to fight the enemies of freedom in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other battlegrounds of the War on Terror. It also creates important new benefits for those in the armed forces and their families who experience tragedy while serving their country.” The Conference report on H.R. 1268 must now be passed by the Senate before it heads to the desk of President George W. Bush who strongly supports the measure. The Senate is expected to quickly approve the Conference report. ###
04.20.2005	Rep. Darrell Issa, today, called for Congress to reject an Office of Management and Budget (OMB) proposal that would eliminate mechanisms put in place ensuring that money collected from criminals under the 1984 Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) is used to provide support for victims of crime. “The Victims of Crime Fund is not paid for by taxpayers and its assets, which are collected from criminals to aid victims of crime, should not be mixed with other federal revenues,” said Rep. Darrell Issa who joined with other members of Congress in asking House Appropriators to reject the proposed change. Under the proposed Budget submitted by OMB, the over $1.2 billion in the Crime Victims Fund would lose its budgetary status that prevents Congress from spending these funds on projects unrelated to helping victims of crime. The Victims of Crime Act was enacted by the initiative of President Ronald Reagan to pay for victims’ services and compensations. It operates on money collected from criminal offenders – not taxpayers – that is then placed in the Crime Victims Fund. There are approximately 4,400 agencies that depend upon VOCA’s victim assistance funds to provide direct services to 3.6 million crime victims annually. An additional 165,000 victims received some $434 million (state and VOCA funds) in crime victim compensation benefits. Currently, VOCA is the only federal program that supports services to victims of all types of crime: homicide fatalities, drunk driving, elder financial exploitation, identity theft, robbery, and rape. The proposed change to the Victims of Crime fund was brought to the attention of Rep. Issa by a member of his staff whose son was shot and killed seven years ago. The family of the victim applied for and received funds for counseling from the Victims of Crime fund. ###
04.15.2005	Rep. Darrell Issa, today, participated in ceremonies opening 528 new homes for Marine families. The ribbon cutting ceremony, conducted by Maj. Gen. Timothy Donavon included corporate partners, elected officials, and military families. “These new housing units are what Marine families deserve,” said Rep. Issa. “I will continue to fight to ensure that new housing construction and renovation moves ahead as scheduled.” Congressman Issa has been an outspoken advocate for expediting and expanding the construction of new housing units on Camp Pendleton under the Private Public Venture (PPV) program. Since 2000, when Congressman Issa was first elected to office, Camp Pendleton, has built 1240 new PPV housing units. Congressman Issa has also authored legislation to provide Camp Pendleton Marines with a new source of drinking water and has helped secure funding for new dental health and physical fitness facilities and numerous other projects. “Honoring the service our Marines are providing our country means helping their families while they are deployed,” said Rep. Issa. “Better housing and new quality of life projects are an important part of supporting these families.” ###
04.15.2005	Rep. Darrell Issa, today, applauded the efforts of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents for apprehending 18 illegal immigrants and uncovering that 86 of 167 employees working for Naval Coating Incorporated were illegal aliens, many of whom had security badges allowing access to a U.S. Naval facility. “This operation uncovered the sad but not surprising truth that illegal aliens with false identities are working in areas that are supposedly secure,” said Rep. Issa. “These arrests are, unfortunately, only the tip of the iceberg. Enforcement of laws prohibiting the hiring of illegal immigrants has been virtually non-existent – the need for change is a matter of national security.” The arrests were made as part of Operation Safe Cities, an ongoing ICE worksite enforcement initiative to protect sensitive area businesses from possible security breaches. According to ICE, Naval Coating Incorporated is not facing criminal charges or sanctions at this time. Since Operation Safe Cities was launched, San Diego ICE agents have identified and reviewed the employment records of approximately 543 businesses whose civilian employees have access to military bases in San Diego and Imperial Counties . Those businesses represent a workforce of nearly 13,500 employees. ICE agents have now arrested more than 163 individuals as part of Operation Safe Cities. “Congress and the administration must make greater efforts to help businesses identify illegal aliens,” said Rep. Issa who has been a strong and consistent advocate of tightening border security and interior enforcement activities like the efforts of the Temecula Mobil Patrol Group that apprehended 422 illegal aliens. “Businesses that hire illegal aliens, ultimately, need to be held accountable.” ###
04.14.2005	The House of Representatives, today, voted 302 to 126 to stop abuse of bankruptcy laws that drive up prices for goods and services. S. 256, The Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005, now heads to the President’s desk to be signed into law. “This bill will help curb abuses of bankruptcy law that are ultimately paid for by consumers,�? said Rep. Darrell Issa. “This legislation maintains needed bankruptcy protections for Americans and enhances privacy rights for those whose debts necessitate a relief from creditors.�? Under current law, nearly every item of information supplied by a debtor in connection with his or her bankruptcy case is made available to the public. S. 256 prohibits the disclosure of the names of the debtor’s minor children and requires such information to be kept in a nonpublic record, which can be made available for inspection only by the court and certain other designated entities. In addition, if a business debtor had a policy prohibiting it from selling “personally identifiable information�? about its customers and the policy was in effect at the time of the bankruptcy filing, then S. 256 prohibits the sale of such information unless certain conditions are satisfied. S. 256 most significantly closes loopholes that have been used to abuse bankruptcy protections. S. 256 will limit bankruptcy protections to those who actually cannot afford to pay their debts and uses educational tools in an attempt to help the financial literacy of those approaching bankruptcy. ###
03.15.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Representatives Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Susan Davis (D-CA) today joined together to introduce the Radioprotectant Procurement Act of 2005 H.R. 1291, legislation directing the federal government to review all viable radiation countermeasures and then move forward to procure and stockpile those measures deemed safe and effective. This legislation requires a medical countermeasure to acute radiation syndrome, which would cause the greatest casualties after a nuclear or radiation attack, and for which there is currently no treatment. Specifically, the legislation directs the Secretaries of Health and Human Services, Defense, and Homeland Security to jointly carry out activities to bring to market effective medical countermeasures to radiation from a nuclear or radiological attack. The initiative would utilize existing funding and authority under the Project BioShield statute. "The threat of nuclear terrorism is all too real," said Congressman Issa. "Nuclear proliferation by rogue states and the ongoing efforts of terrorist groups to obtain and use a nuclear or radiological weapon pose a grave security risk to our country." Despite significant progress in better protecting our nation since 9/11, the "nuclear challenge" remains daunting. The mere vastness of our land and sea borders provides terrorists the opportunity to smuggle a nuclear weapon into our nation. "Given the challenge we face in countering the nuclear threat, we as a nation must prepare for the catastrophic," said Congresswoman Davis. "We must do everything in our power to reduce the amount of harm a nuclear or radiological weapon could inflict on our nation and the American people. This effort must include a workable plan to treat those who may be subject to radiation exposure and acute radiation syndrome. Currently under development are medical countermeasures to acute radiation exposure - drugs that can potentially save hundreds of thousand of American lives in the event of a nuclear attack. This new legislation would direct the federal government to review all countermeasures in development. In addition to H.R. 1291, Reps. Issa and Davis also introduced a Sense-of-the-Congress resolution re-emphasizing the need to procure and stockpile such drugs. ###
03.12.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa, today, honored current and past Marines in a ceremony on the island of Iwo Jima marking the 60th Anniversary of the United States Marine Corps’ most famous victory. Issa, in making the trip from Washington, was joined by Reps. Lane Evans (D-IL) and Madeleine Bordallo (D-Guam), current U.S. Marines, and veterans of the battle that took place 60 years ago. The U.S. House of Representatives, earlier this week, unanimously adopted H.Res. 119, a resolution sponsored by Rep. Issa honoring the United States Marine Corps and the WWII veterans who fought at Iwo Jima. “Making the trip to Iwo Jima to honor those who fought here sixty years ago was one small way of recognizing the contributions all veterans, and those who currently serve in our armed services, have made for our country,” said Rep. Issa. “The battle of Iwo Jima is part of the great legacy of the Marine Corps that continues today.” More than 70,000 Marines participated in the Battle of Iwo Jima, of whom 17,372 Marines were wounded and 5,931 made the ultimate sacrifice. Overall American losses from the Battle of Iwo Jima included 6,821 killed and 19,217 wounded. ###
03.11.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives, yesterday, voted 417-9 to approve H.R. 3, The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users, which authorizes federal transportation projects through FY 2009 and contained key provisions requested by Rep. Darrell Issa. H.R. 3 included a provision that will allow states to create programs allowing gas-electric hybrid-vehicles to use carpool lanes, a proposal that was originally proposed and championed by Rep. Issa. The House, furthermore, unanimously adopted an amendment offered by Rep. Issa stating the sense of Congress that, “States should provide additional incentives (including the use of high occupancy vehicle lanes on State and Interstate highways) for the purchase and use of hybrid and other fuel efficient vehicles, which have been proven to minimize air emissions and decrease consumption of fossil fuels.” “I am extremely pleased that the House of Representatives has sent an unambiguous message that states should be allowed to give hybrid vehicles access to carpool lanes,” said Rep. Issa. “This provision will allow California’s law, which permits some hybrids to use HOV lanes, to go into effect.” H.R. 3 also included funding authorization for key 49th Congressional District transportation projects. Below is a summary of projects requested by Rep. Issa included in H.R. 3: State Route 76 (Fallbrook) – $5 million Project will widen and realign five miles of State Route 76 between Melrose Drive in the City of Oceanside and Mission Road in the County of San Diego. In addition, the segment from Mission Road to Interstate 15 will be accelerated, including environmental work, construction and advanced mitigation activities. State Route 78/ Interstate 5 Interchange (Oceanside) – $5 million The Interstate 5/State Route 78 Interchange Improvements project is both regionally and nationally significant as it provides for improved safety and reduced congestion at this heavily traveled Interstate 5 freeway interchange with State Route 78, the major freeway serving the North San Diego County area and connecting I-5 to I-15. I-15/Route 79 South Interchange (Temecula) – $ 2 million Construction of a ramp system to improve access to I-15 from State Route 79 South and accommodate traffic generated by future development of the City’s general plan land use and regional traffic volume increases forecast for the year 2025. Project will include the right-of-way acquisition, design and construction of an improved interchange system. Interstate 15/Winchester Road Interchange (Temecula) (French Valley Parkway Over Crossing and Interchange Project) – $2 million Study, design and construction of a bridge over crossing over I-15 and construction of a new freeway interchange to address traffic circulation in the City’s northern areas. Highway 74/I-215 Interchange (Perris) -- $1 million This project will create an interchange that will connect I-15 and I-215 as well as Highway 71 and I-215. San Luis Rey Transit Center -- $500,000 San Luis Rey is a smart growth development combining a new 12 bay transit center with private mixed-use residential and retail offerings. Endorsed by the City of Oceanside, San Luis Rey Transit Center will be located approximately 30 minutes from both the Oceanside Transit Center and Vista Transit Center. The new transit center will provide vital connections for local bus and regional services. In addition to providing local and regional service to the high growth areas between the Cities of Vista and Oceanside, the center will connect Camp Pendleton’s Mainside area and Naval Hospital as well as provide 15 minutes peak time connections to NCTD’s new Sprinter train service (opening in 2007). Temecula Intermodal Transit Facility a.k.a. Temecula Park & Ride -- $500,000 This project involves the acquisition of land, design and construction of a park and ride transit center. In light of the City’s large commuter population, the project will reduce congestion on I-15, as well as provide an opportunity for workers to carpool to and from work. H.R. 3 now heads to the Senate where Congressman Issa intends to continue fighting for the inclusion of all 49th Congressional district projects and language authorizing hybrid vehicles to use HOV lanes that is included in the House version of H.R. 3. ###
03.10.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Rosa DeLauro, Kay Granger, Darrell Issa and Sander Levin today joined survivors and family members whose lives have been impacted by cancer to announce the reintroduction of “Johanna’s Law: The Gynecologic Cancer Education and Awareness Act of 2005.” The legislation would provide for programs to increase the awareness and knowledge of women with respect to gynecologic cancers, and would also include demonstration grants for outreach and education. “As an ovarian cancer survivor, I know firsthand the impact this disease has on women’s lives and the increased chance for cure when it is detected in the early stages,” said Rep. Rosa DeLauro. Far too many women do not know what symptoms to look for and seek help when it is too late – my own cancer was diagnosed during a doctor’s visit on an unrelated issue. That is why public education is one of the most critical weapons we have against this and other deadly gynecologic cancers. Johanna’s Law is an education and awareness research that can save lives. That is why we need to pass this legislation and soon.” “Johanna’s story is one we’re hearing over and over again—of women being diagnosed with gynecological cancer in the latter stages with no benefits of early and effective treatment,” said Congresswoman Kay Granger. “If passed, Johanna’s law will help educate women about gynecological cancers, which we hope will dramatically reduce the number of women from dying from this awful disease. Women should not be dying from gynecological cancers because of a lack of information.” “Knowledge and vigilance are the best defense against gynecological cancers,” Rep. Issa explained. “Educating the public and doctors about these cancers will increase the likelihood of early detection and successful treatment. By making a modest investment today, we save lives.” “Through awareness and early detection, we help women beat gynecologic cancers,” said Rep. Levin. “This legislation will help women across the nation understand the symptoms to be on the lookout for and the steps to take if they need care.” The idea for “Johanna’s Law,” was conceived by Sheryl Silver, who lost her sister, Johanna, to ovarian cancer following a three-and-a-half year battle with the disease. “Like many women who are diagnosed with a gynecologic cancer, my sister, Johanna, was not aware that the symptoms she was experiencing could be related to ovarian cancer until after she was diagnosed with an advanced stage of the disease. Despite being a health conscious woman who visited the gynecologist regularly, her lack of knowledge about these symptoms contributed to a delay in diagnosis. Tragically, Johanna’s story is all too common,” said Silver. “This bill is intended to change that.” “This bill is needed because early detection of these cancers is key to the successful treatment and survival of women,” said James W. Orr, M.D., SGO President, and Director, Gynecologic Cancer and Research, Florida Gynecologic Oncology, Ft. Myers, Florida. “Every additional effort we can make to educate women about the signs and symptoms of these cancers, which affect nearly 80,000 women a year in the U.S., will help save lives. SGO thanks Representatives DeLauro, Granger, Issa and Levin for supporting women by sponsoring this bill.” According to the American Cancer Society, gynecologic cancers will affect approximately 79,480 women and take 28,910 lives this year. ###
12.07.2004	STATEMENT FOR THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak in opposition to the conference report for S. 2845, the “Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act Of 2004.” The necessary immigration reform provisions in the House-passed intelligence reform bill, H.R. 10, are not included in this conference report, leaving critical recommendations of the 9/11 Commission undone. H.R. 10 includes key provisions necessary to securing our nation, and I voted in favor of the bill, along with 282 members of the House. Unfortunately, the conference report we will be considering today is different from the House passed bill and leaves a hole in the security which our citizens demand in a post-9/11 environment. The 9/11 Commission report exposed how the 19 terrorists who attacked America on that terrible day obtained over 60 drivers licenses between them to breach our homeland security. Improving document security is a key recommendation of the 9/11 Commission, but the conference report deletes a key provision that would ban illegal aliens from obtaining a drivers license. Proponents of this conference report will try to argue that the immigration proposals are a peripheral issue that should not be addressed in S.2845. To the contrary, the immigration proposals included in the House passed legislation are essential to securing our borders from terrorists. This conference report closes the front door to terrorists, but leaves a key under the back door mat. Once terrorists enter this country, they will continue to have opportunities to easily obtain false documentation and travel comfortably within our borders. These opportunities will be available because this Congress failed to address them when we had the chance. If we do not include the necessary immigration provisions in this conference report, I can promise you they will not be addressed at all. The critics who oppose including immigration reform in this legislation have zero interest in advancing true immigration reform. How many times do we have to be attacked by terrorists with false documents before we enact the reforms necessary to stop them? The 9/11 attacks have taught us to be proactive, but Congress is regressing back into a reactive state of mind with the passage of this conference report – September 10 thinking in a post 9/11 world. Border security is an essential component of Homeland Security. America won’t be truly secure until Congress makes the tough policy decisions necessary to curb illegal immigration and restore the integrity of our borders I want to thank my colleagues who have joined me in opposition to this legislation, including House Judiciary Chairman James Sensenbrenner, whose leadership has brought this critical issue to the attention of the American people and raised the level of debate. I urge my colleagues to vote against this well intended, but incomplete, conference report. ###
11.23.2004	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Darrell Issa, today, called for the restoration of sections establishing anti-fraud requirements for drivers’ licenses, the expedited removal of illegal aliens, and workplace enforcement of existing labor laws that were removed from the conference report of H.R. 10, the 9/11 Recommendations Implementation Act. Issa was one of several GOP members who objected to the bill that was weakened by the removal of critical homeland security provisions and petitioned for a meeting of the party conference in a Saturday letter to House Republican Conference Chairwoman Deborah Pryce. After hearing lawmakers’ objections, House leaders chose to delay a final vote on the bill’s passage. Congressman Issa has promised to fight for the inclusion of essential security enhancements as part of any bill addressing recommendations of the 9/11 commission. “The removal of these homeland security sections goes against the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Report,” said Rep. Issa. “Preventing terrorists and other criminals from obtaining fraudulent identification is a critically important reform.” Provisions of the House version of H.R. 10 that were removed or weakened in the Conference Report include: • Authorization of Interior Immigration Agents. Conference Report eliminated House requirement that new agents enforce restrictions on illegal aliens in the workplace. • Expedited Removal of Illegal Aliens. Conference Report eliminated this provision. • Drivers’ License Provision. Conference Report eliminated provision establishing secure standards for drivers’ licenses and bar on illegal aliens obtaining drivers’ licenses. From the 9/11 Commission Report: For terrorists, travel documents are as important as weapons. Terrorists must travel clandestinely to meet, train, plan, case targets, and gain access to attack. – p.384 It is elemental to border security to know who is coming into the country. Today more than 9 million people are in the United States outside the legal immigration system. – p. 390 Recommendation: Secure identification should begin in the United States. The federal government should set standards for the issuance of birth certificates and sources of identification, such as drivers licenses. Fraud in identification documents is no longer just a problem of theft. At many entry points to vulnerable facilities, including gates for boarding aircraft, sources of identification are the last opportunity to ensure that people are who they say they are and to check whether they are terrorists. – p.390 ###
11.20.2004	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives, last night by a vote of 391 to 3, adopted H. Res. 853, a resolution sponsored by Rep. Darrell Issa honoring the Boy Scouts of America, “for the public service the organization performs for neighborhoods and communities across the United States.” “For 95 years, the Boy Scouts of America have made outstanding contributions to citizenship, service, and leadership,” said Rep. Issa. “This resolution is an expression of Congress’ appreciation for Scouts, volunteer leaders, and employees of the Boy Scouts of America.” “Scouting has always represented the best in community, leadership, and service,” added Issa. The Boy Scouts of America is one of the leading volunteer youth movements in the United States, serving more than 4,700,000 young people with the support of 1,200,000 volunteer adult leaders. The stated purpose of the Boy Scouts of America—incorporated on February 8, 1910, and chartered by Congress in 1916—is to provide an educational program for boys and young adults to build character, to train in the responsibilities of citizenship, and to develop personal fitness. ### H. Res. 853 Recognizing the Boy Scouts of America for the public service the organization performs for neighborhoods and communities across the United States. Whereas the Boy Scouts of America is one of the leading volunteer youth movements in the United States, serving more than 4,700,000 young people with the support of 1,200,000 volunteer adult leaders; Whereas the Boy Scouts of America was incorporated on February 8, 1910, and recognized by Federal charter on June 15, 1916, to provide an educational program for youth to build character, train in the responsibilities of participatory citizenship, and develop personal fitness; Whereas the Boy Scouts of America teaches the core values of duty to God and country, personal honor, respect for the beliefs of others, volunteerism, and the value of service and doing a ‘‘good turn’’ daily, principles which are conducive to good character, citizenship, and health; and Whereas during the 95-year history of the Boy Scouts of America, the organization has partnered with the Salvation Army, Habitat for Humanity International, the American Red Cross, and thousands of other community and civic organizations to address critical issues facing communities in the United States, including the problems of hunger, inadequate housing, and poor health and youth obesity: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives— (1) recognizes the Boy Scouts of America for the public service the organization performs for neighborhoods and communities across the United States; and (2) commends the Boy Scouts of America for the Good Turn for America program and the work the organization has accomplished while partnering with the Salvation Army, Habitat for Humanity International, the American Red Cross, and thousands of other community and civic organizations across the United States to address critical issues facing communities in the United States.
