03.14.2019	(Courtesy of the Congressional Western Caucus) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, members of the Western Caucus released statements applauding the full recovery of the gray wolf and a proposed rule put forward by the Trump Administration to remove the gray wolf from the List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife in the lower 48 states as a result of a full recovery of the species:Chairman Paul Gosar (AZ-04): "This is a huge win for the American people! The gray wolf was first placed on the endangered species list in 1976 and has made one of the most successful recoveries in history. In 2013, the Obama Administration's U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service reported that the gray wolf population was no longer in danger and tried to issue a proposed rule to remove the gray wolf as a nationally listed endangered species. However, extremist obstructionist groups like the Sierra Club and the Center for Biological Diversity prevented this administrative action. For years they have gone against the science and facts, instead electing to file litigation that benefited their financial self-interests at the expense of the taxpayer and American cattleman and ranchers. This proposed rule is long overdue. I applaud the work of Acting Secretary Bernhardt who continues to prove that he is a voice for America's heartland and a voice for local communities."House Natural Resources Committee Ranking Republican Rob Bishop (UT-01): "This decision is long-awaited. For years, scientific evidence conducted by the Fish and Wildlife Service under multiple administrations from both sides of the aisle has shown the gray wolf is recovered and is now thriving. Today, the removal of the gray wolf from the endangered species list is not just a story of conservation success, but highlights the effectiveness of the Endangered Species Act when the federal government is able to collaborate and transfer decision-making authority to state and local wildlife officials and land managers. Unfortunately, this delisting was subject to perpetual litigation and also highlights ESA’s flaws. We need a streamlined delisting process to speed up non-controversial policy proposals like the delisting of the gray wolf. Until then, communities and species will continue to suffer when special interest litigants and activist judges dictate our ESA policy."Executive Vice-Chairman Scott Tipton (CO-03): "Without an effective method of managing the species in place, the gray wolf poses a threat to livestock as well as other native species habitats. It is long past time that the gray wolf be officially de-listed and I am glad to see the U.S. Wish and Wildlife Service take the steps to see this through. State agencies are better suited to responsibly manage the population by tailoring management plans to meet the unique circumstances and conditions in each state, and ensure gray wolves continue to thrive in a healthy and balanced ecosystem."Chief Rules Officer Dan Newhouse (WA-04): "The best available science shows that the gray wolf has successfully recovered from the danger of extinction and no longer requires federal protection. We can see in Washington state that the wolf population is growing quickly while being effectively managed by the Washington Department of Fish & Wildlife in the eastern third of the state. I applaud the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s for moving forward with a proposal to delist the wolf in the lower 48 states in order to return management to the states."Chief Regulatory Reform Officer Andy Biggs (AZ-05): "The gray wolf population has recovered dramatically over recent decades, and yet the Department of the Interior’s Fish and Wildlife Service continues to inexplicably list this species as 'endangered.' As someone who has long opposed DOI overreach, I applaud the decision of Acting Secretary David Bernhardt to delist the gray wolf and return species management to where it properly belongs: with the states and tribes." Rep. Pete Stauber (MN-08): "This proposed rule is long overdue as the gray wolf species has been recovered for years. Unfortunately, despite the Obama Administration’s science-based decision to delist the gray wolf in 2014, an activist judge in D.C. went against numerous findings and put the gray wolf back on the Endangered Species List. I look forward to the implementation of this rule so that the states can properly manage their own gray wolf population and alleviate the impacts this species has on our local farmers, their livestock, numerous family pets, and big game herds in Northern Minnesota."Rep. Tom Emmer (MN-06): "I applaud Acting Secretary David Bernhardt’s efforts to return conservation efforts back to the local communities they impact. His plan to move forward with delisting the gray wolf will return local control and allow Minnesota farmers the ability to protect their livelihoods. Minnesotans cherish the beautiful nature and wildlife the state offers, and they should have the opportunity to manage their own conservation efforts. This is an important step towards making that a reality."Rep. Russ Fulcher (ID-01): "The excess population of wolves in Idaho has proven detrimental to our economy, ranchers, and natural resources. I am extremely pleased with Acting Secretary Bernhardt’s decision to delist the gray wolf and I will continue to support efforts to undo federal government overreach."Rep. Debbie Lesko (AZ-08): "Arizona knows the danger and destruction gray wolves pose on our ranches and rural communities. But for decades, our state’s ability to manage the native gray wolf population, especially the Mexican gray wolf, has been severely restricted due to its endangered species status. I applaud U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for taking steps to delist the Gray Wolf and allow individual states and tribes to manage the species, not the federal government."The Department of the Interior released the following statements:U.S. Department of the Interior Acting Secretary David Bernhardt: "The facts are clear and indisputable—the gray wolf no longer meets the definition of a threatened or endangered species. Today the wolf is thriving on its vast range and it is reasonable to conclude it will continue to do so in the future. Today’s action puts us one step closer to transitioning the extraordinary effort that we have invested in gray wolf recovery to other species who actually need the protections of the Endangered Species Act, leaving the states to carry on the legacy of wolf conservation."U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Principal Deputy Director Margaret Everson: "It is a proud moment when we can tell our children and our grandchildren that the future is secure for these magnificent creatures. Our deepest gratitude goes to all our conservation partners in this victory, particularly the states and tribes who are committed to wolf conservation and will continue this legacy forward."Background: Today, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service unveiled a proposed rule to remove the gray wolf from the List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife in the lower 48 states as a result of a full recovery of the species. Management of the species will now be the responsibility of individual states and tribes. An estimated 7,000 to 11,200 gray wolves live in Alaska and another 60,000 live in Canada. There are now more than 5,000 gray wolves in the lower 48 states. In 1978, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service first listed the gray wolf as an endangered species in the contiguous U.S. with the exception of Minnesota where the wolf was listed as threatened. The Obama Administration attempted to remove the gray wolf from the List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife in the lower 48 states in 2013, publishing a proposed rule to delist the gray wolf after finding that the “best available scientific and commercial information indicates that the currently listed entity is not a valid species under the Act. The Obama Administration also proposed removing protections for gray wolves in Minnesota, Michigan and Wisconsin in 2011. The Obama Administration's 2013 and 2011 proposals were challenged with frivolous lawsuits from extremist organizations who don't rely on science or facts and seek to fundraise by keeping species on the Endangered Species Act in perpetuity, regardless of merits and findings that an individual species have been recovered. The Obama Administration removed Endangered Species Act protections for gray wolves in Wyoming, a decision was upheld in 2017.Courtesy of the Department of the Interior The gray wolf, an iconic species of the American West, had all but disappeared from landscape in the lower 48 states by the early 20th century. Now it roams free in nine states and is stable and healthy throughout its current range. This constitutes one of the greatest comebacks for an animal in U.S. conservation history. Today, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is re-affirming the success of this recovery with a proposal to remove all gray wolves from protection under Endangered Species Act (ESA). Thanks to the partnerships involving states, tribes, conservation organizations and private landowners galvanized under the ESA, the Service is now able to propose turning management of all gray wolves back to the states and tribes who have been so central to the species’ recovery. This proposal excludes Mexican gray wolves, which would remain listed under the ESA. The Service’s proposal to delist the gray wolf throughout the contiguous United States will be open for public comment in the Federal Register beginning on March 15, 2019. Comments must be received within 60 days of publication until May 14, 2019. All comments will be posted on http://www.regulations.gov. This generally means any personal information provided through the process will be posted. Information on the proposed rule and how to comment may be found at: https://www.fws.gov/home/wolfrecovery/. ###
03.14.2019	Otsego, MN – Today, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced that he will be holding a town hall in Wright County. "My staff and I strive to be transparent, accountable, and most importantly — accessible. Town halls are a great way to facilitate this," said Emmer. "Town halls serve as one of the most effective ways to connect with constituents. If there is an issue or concern you hope to express – or want to know where I stand on an issue – please join me in Wright County on March 19!” Date: March 19, 2019Time: 7:00PM-8:00PMLocation: Cokato City Hall 255 Broadway Ave S, Cokato, MN 55321 ###
03.12.2019	(Courtesy of the Congressional Western Caucus)WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, members of the Senate Western Caucus and the Congressional Western Caucus released statements in support of David Bernhardt becoming the next Secretary of the Department of the Interior (DOI) after his nomination was officially sent from the White House to the United States Senate: Senate Western Caucus Chairman Steve Daines (MT): "David is incredibly qualified to serve as Secretary at the Department of the Interior. I look forward to continue working with him to advance priorities for Montana and those of other western states – such as improved management of our federal lands, increasing public access to public lands, and fixing the national park maintenance backlog." Chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee Lisa Murkowski (AK): "I strongly support David Bernhardt to serve as Secretary of the Interior. He is an excellent choice and has demonstrated he is more than capable of leading on a permanent basis. It is critical that our Interior Secretary understand Alaska and I have no doubt he will continue to be a strong partner for our state. I will schedule a hearing and seek to move his nomination forward as expeditiously as possible." Senator Kevin Cramer (ND): "It’s good to see President Trump nominate someone as experienced as David Bernhardt. As chairman of the EPW Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water, and Wildlife, we oversee the Department of Interior’s U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. I look forward to meeting with Mr. Bernhardt to discuss the ways we can work together." Senator Mike Lee (UT): "David Bernhardt has done great work so far as Deputy Administrator. We hope he continues the work the administration has been doing to increase access, productivity, and active management to our nations federal lands and maximize collaboration with the states." Senator Dan Sullivan (AK): "David Bernhardt is an excellent choice to be our next Secretary of the Interior. He is a strong advocate for the goal of energy dominance, and will help facilitate Alaska’s role in that goal. During his years of private practice and leadership positions at the Interior Department during both the Trump and Bush administrations, he has gained a deep understanding of Alaska’s unique land issues – including ANILCA. He has also shown a commitment to the Interior Department’s trust responsibility to Alaska Natives. I believe that Mr. Bernhardt will be a great Secretary of the Interior for my state, and for our country." Senator Jim Inhofe (OK): "I fully support President Trump’s nomination of Acting Secretary David Bernhardt to serve permanently as Secretary of the Department of the Interior. He has proven his leadership at the agency and I have no doubt he will only build on his years of experience from here. I look forward to working with him in this new role." Senator John Hoeven (ND): "Acting Secretary David Bernhardt, who was previously confirmed with bipartisan support to serve as deputy secretary, has the right experience and background to lead the Interior Department. His record shows a balanced approach to managing our nation’s public lands in a way that supports multiple uses, including grazing, energy development and recreation. As a member of the Senate Energy & Natural Resources Committee, I look forward to considering his nomination in a timely manner." Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Paul Gosar (AZ-04): "Nobody knows the issues facing the Department of the Interior better than David Bernhardt. David loves his country and has served her well as a dedicated public servant for more than a decade. Acting Secretary Bernhardt knows responsible energy production and protecting our environment are not mutually exclusive goals. During his tenure, David has worked diligently to increase hunting and fishing access, ensure clean water for future generations and empower local decision-making. David is a champion for sportsmen and rural communities. David has an incredible work ethic and is a man of integrity. No one is more qualified or more responsive to the needs of the American people. I urge the Senate to confirm him as soon as possible." House Natural Resources Committee Ranking Republican Rob Bishop (UT-01): "President Trump’s nomination of David Bernhardt was a brilliant move. Absolutely no one is more experienced and ready for the job than David. He fully understands every issue under the purview of the Department of the Interior and respects the importance of local decision-making. I urge the Senate to act quickly on his confirmation." Congressional Western Caucus Executive Vice-Chairman Scott Tipton (CO-03): "As a native of the 3rd Congressional District of Colorado, David knows Western land issues inside and out. Coloradans will be glad to have him working to advance our interests as Interior Secretary. I hope the nomination process goes swiftly so we can continue working together to protect the way of life we enjoy in the West." Congressional Western Caucus Chief Rules Officer Dan Newhouse (WA-04): "I congratulate David Bernhardt on his official nomination to serve as President Trump’s Secretary of the Department of the Interior. As DOI Acting Secretary, Bernhardt has shown that he understands natural resource issues that are so important for the West and for Central Washington. I especially look forward to working with Secretary Bernhardt on the proposed rule to delist the gray wolf and to make progress on the Odessa Groundwater Replacement Program and the Columbia Basin Project." Congressional Western Caucus Chief Infrastructure and Forestry Officer Bruce Westerman (AR-04): "Mr. Bernhardt has done a fantastic job and proven himself in his previous role as Deputy Secretary, and I’m looking forward to his continued strong leadership at DOI as he transitions into his official capacity as Secretary." Congressional Western Caucus Chief Regulatory Reform Officer Andy Biggs (AZ-05): "President Trump has been a great friend to people in the West. Over the last two years, the Department of the Interior repealed overreaching Obama-era regulations, streamlined the path for sustainable energy and natural resource development, and expanded access to public lands. I believe that Acting Secretary Bernhardt will build on the good work that DOI has done for western states, and I look forward to his swift confirmation." Congressional Western Caucus Chief Agriculture and Business Officer Doug LaMalfa (CA-01): "Acting Secretary Bernhardt has done a tremendous job in his short time at the helm of the Department of the Interior. I’ve worked closely and successfully with DOI under this Administration to improve the stewardship of our lands, both in Northern California and across the country, and I expect that to continue under his leadership. I applaud the nomination of David Bernhardt for Interior Secretary, and I hope the Senate completes the confirmation process as quickly as possible." Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-42): "I want to congratulate David Bernhardt on being nominated as our next Interior Secretary. In his time at Interior, David has already made a positive impact by focusing the Department on the important issues impacting California, especially when it comes to managing our states water challenges. As Secretary, I know David will utilize his robust experience to help the Department carry out its important mission." Rep. Pete Stauber (MN-08): "I am excited about this important step in the nomination process. Future Secretary Bernhardt will continue to be a great leader of the Interior Department and I look forward to working with him to bring commonsense solutions to our nation’s problems and help unleash the economic engine and boundless resources in Northeastern Minnesota." Rep. Aumua Amata Radewagen (American Samoa-At Large): "I appreciated David Bernhardt’s recent presence at the Interagency Group on Insular Areas. In the islands, where fishing is a way of life and the backbone of our economy, we also appreciate knowing he enjoys fishing. The Interior Department is an important relationship for the Territories, and David Bernhardt has the right experience and knowledge to continue leading the Department." Rep. Tom Emmer (MN-06): "I am proud to share my support for the confirmation of Acting Secretary David Bernhardt to permanently fill the role of Secretary of the Interior. The Secretary of the Interior is a vitally important job, and I have full confidence in Acting Secretary Bernhardt’s ability to serve our nation proudly. Through his years of service to the Department, he has displayed a deep understanding of the issues under his jurisdiction, and I know he will carry out necessary measures to ensure conservation, management, and development of federals lands is handled appropriately, with Americans best interest in mind. I look forward to seeing him confirmed soon." Rep. Paul Cook (CA-08): "I’m pleased President Trump has nominated David Bernhardt for Secretary of the Interior. David has extensive knowledge of the challenges impacting public lands in California and the West. He’s not afraid to tackle critical issues such as the need for improving our water infrastructure and active forest management to prevent wildfires. He’s ready to meet the challenges ahead and I hope the Senate will move quickly to approve his nomination." Rep. Kevin Hern (OK-01): "Congratulations to Acting Secretary Bernhardt on his official nomination to be the Secretary of the Interior! I look forward to working with Mr. Bernhardt on issues important to Oklahoma, especially our oil and gas industry, which employs hundreds of thousands of Oklahomans." Background: Today, March 11th, the White House sent Acting Secretary David Bernhardt’s nomination to be the next Secretary of the Department of the Interior (DOI) to the United States Senate. Acting Secretary Bernhardt has been a model public servant for more than ten years. He has served honorably at DOI as Solicitor, Deputy Secretary and now Acting Secretary. Mr. Bernhardt was also general counsel for a Western Caucus Congressman and the Third Congressional District now represented by Congressional Western Caucus Vice-Chairman Scott Tipton. Acting Secretary Bernhardt was confirmed as Deputy Secretary at DOI in July of 2017. Click here and here to view press releases from the Congressional Western Caucus and Senate Western Caucus in relation to that confirmation. If confirmed, Mr. Bernhardt would be the 53rd Secretary of the Department of the Interior. He was born in Rifle, Colorado. Courtesy of the White House Mr. Bernhardt currently serves as Acting Secretary and Deputy Secretary of the Interior. He has served at the Department of the Interior for nearly a decade in various leadership roles. The Senate has previously confirmed Mr. Bernhardt twice to serve at the Interior – in 2017 as Deputy Secretary and in 2006 as Solicitor. He is an avid sportsman who served as a board member for the Virginia Board of Game and Inland Fisheries. Courtesy of the Department of the Interior Mr. Bernhardt is an avid hunter and angler and recently served on the Board of Game and Inland Fisheries for the Commonwealth of Virginia. He has in-depth experience in legal matters concerning active regulations and rule-makings, with years of legal experience in both the government and the private sector. His expertise ranges from the Endangered Species Act to Outer-Continental leases, from mining royalties to Indian Affairs. From 2001 and 2009, he held several positions within the Department of the Interior, including serving as Solicitor. In that capacity, he led the International Boundary Commission between the United States and Canada and was responsible, along with his Canadian counterpart, for maintaining the 5,525 mile international boundary between these two nations. Prior to that, he served then-Secretary Norton as a deputy solicitor, deputy chief of staff and counselor to the Secretary, and as director of Congressional and Legislative affairs and counselor to the Secretary. Bernhardt earned a B.A. in political science with a minor in business administration from the University of Northern Colorado in Greeley in 1990. He graduated with honors from the George Washington University National Law Center in 1994 and is admitted to various state and federal court bars. He is married to Gena Bernhardt. They have two children and reside in Arlington, Virginia. ###
03.01.2019	(Courtesy of the Congressional Western Caucus) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, members of the Western Caucus released statements applauding Andrew Wheeler's confirmation as Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency: Chairman Paul Gosar (AZ-04): "The leadership of Andrew Wheeler at EPA has been transformational; not only for the agency, but for the country as a whole. His integrity, work-ethic, availability and focus are a breath of fresh air. Andrew’s efforts to overturn job-killing and unconstitutional rules like WOTUS and the so-called 'Clean Power Plan' are of critical importance to rural America. Mr. Wheeler’s efforts to hold polluters accountable and cleanup Superfund sites should be commended. The Western Caucus looks forward to continuing its work with the Administrator."Chief Rules Officer Dan Newhouse (WA-04): "I applaud the confirmation of Andrew Wheeler as the next Administrator of the EPA. Under Administrator Wheeler, the EPA will continue to rein in the agency’s burdensome regulatory agenda pursued under President Obama while ensuring we are good stewards of the land." House Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Republican Greg Walden (OR-02): "While serving as both Deputy Administrator and Acting Administrator at the EPA, Mr. Wheeler has certainly proven his ability to effectively lead the agency. With more than 25 years of experience with environmental policy, he understands the importance of protecting public health and the environment while also creating a stable regulatory climate to unleash the American economy. We look forward to continuing to work with him to advance commonsense regulatory reforms while maintaining responsible environmental stewardship."House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology Ranking Republican Frank Lucas (OK-03): "Administrator Wheeler is a pragmatic and experienced leader and I’m pleased to have him at the helm of the Environmental Protection Agency. Administrator Wheeler and the Trump Administration are working to ensure that the EPA’s policies are effective and flexible without overburdening our farmers, ranchers, scientists, and small businesses. As Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and an Oklahoman farmer, I look forward to working with Administrator Wheeler to advance this agenda and promote America’s next-generation research while further protecting America’s diverse and rich landscape."National Republican Congressional Committee Chairman Tom Emmer (MN-06): "I applaud the confirmation of Andrew Wheeler as our Administrator for the Environmental Protection Agency. As Acting Administrator, he has focused on sensible policies that protect our air and water, while evaluating commonsense changes to unnecessary and burdensome regulations. His attention to the overreach of WOTUS will lead to a more effective policy that no longer punishes our farmers, ranchers and rural communities. I congratulate Administrator Wheeler on his confirmation and know his expertise will serve our country well."Congressman Markwayne Mullin (OK-02): "For far too long, the EPA has meddled in the everyday lives of Americans. Thankfully, we’ve come a long way under the Trump Administration. Administrator Wheeler has been instrumental in the EPA’s efforts to repeal harmful regulations on farmers, ranchers, and businesses—including the overreaching Waters of the United States rule. Congratulations to Administrator Wheeler on his confirmation and I look forward to working together in the future."Congressman Bob Gibbs (OH-07): "With Andrew Wheeler at the helm of the EPA, Americans can expect a fair and competent administrator. He will lead the agency with an even-handed approach required of federal regulators. Administrator Wheeler will continue the efforts of the Trump Administration treating state and local environmental agencies as partners rather than adversaries as the Obama Administration did. I congratulate Administrator Wheeler and look forward to collaborating with him in creating a fair regulatory structure that protects the environment while also encouraging economic growth."Congressman Kevin Hern (OK-01): “New EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler is a top notch leader and I congratulate him on his confirmation by the Senate. After 8 years of oppressive regulations under the previous administration, Administrator Wheeler will stand up for American businesses and provide much-needed relief. His commitment to our country’s energy sector – of which Oklahoma is a major participant – is encouraging and foreshadows a bright future ahead. Congratulations, again, to Administrator Wheeler!”Congressman Morgan Griffith (VA-09): "During his time at the EPA, Andrew Wheeler has helped steer it back to its fundamental mission of protecting clear air and clean water. As Administrator, he will continue this focus while keeping the agency within its lawful authority. He will be an excellent partner to states and Congress, and I look forward to his continued leadership on behalf of our environment."Congressman Dusty Johnson (SD-At Large): "Administrator Wheeler has the experience and qualifications necessary for the job at hand. I commend the Senate for confirming a qualified candidate to fulfill the mission at the EPA. Under his leadership, Administrator Wheeler has run the agency as Congress intended to protect our air, water and environment. I look forward to working with the Administrator as he finalizes the Administration’s proposal on year-round sales of E15, clarifying jurisdiction of Waters of the U.S. and many other issues that impact the lives of South Dakotans." Previous statements were also released by members of the U.S. Senate Western Caucus including: Chairman Steve Daines (Mont.) and Caucus Members Senators Mike Rounds (S.D.), Jim Inhofe (Okla.), Pat Roberts (Kan.), John Boozman (Ark.), John Barrasso (Wyo.). "Having worked with Administrator Wheeler both in Montana and DC, he takes a commonsense approach to solving issues important to Montana and other states," Daines said. "I look forward to continuing to partner with Administrator Wheeler to protect our environment in Montana, finalize and clean up our superfund sites in Butte, Anaconda, Libby and other areas, and make sure our state can continue to provide high paying agriculture and energy jobs. Under Wheeler’s leadership at the EPA, I look forward to continuing the progress we’ve made for the health of our communities, for our local economies, and for our environment." "I congratulate Administrator Wheeler on his confirmation," Rounds said. "I had the opportunity to meet with Mr. Wheeler during his confirmation process a number of times, and I appreciated our candid conversations about year-round E-15 sales, the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), small refinery waivers and other issues important to South Dakotans. In his EPW confirmation hearing, I asked about his plan to accomplish the administration’s goal of year-round E-15 sales by the summer driving season. He told me the EPA is committed to getting E-15 done before the summer driving season. At a time of low commodity prices and trade uncertainty, finalizing year-round sales of E-15 is an opportunity to support South Dakota’s farmers. I was pleased to support Mr. Wheeler’s confirmation and I look forward to working with him in his new role as EPA Administrator." "Andrew Wheeler is the right choice to lead the EPA—no one knows his qualifications better than I do—and I am pleased that the Senate confirmed him today," Inhofe said. "Andrew is an unparalleled leader in energy and environmental policy and knows what it takes to ensure that our environment is cared for within the laws passed by Congress. As Administrator, he will continue important deregulation efforts with President Trump ensuring that all stakeholders are heard, and provide certainty and stability for the regulated community. Congratulations Andrew, keep up the good work." "Administrator Wheeler has taken the time to listen to the concerns of farmers and ranchers regarding the Obama Administration’s damaging ‘Waters of the U.S.’ (WOTUS) rule. The EPA, under Mr. Wheeler’s direction, has already demonstrated a high regard for the concerns of rural America, and I look forward to working with him on issues important to agriculture," Roberts said."The EPA is most effective when it acts as a partner with states and follows the intent of Congress to help protect the environment," Boozman said. "The administrator must set that tone and help steer the institution in that direction rather than try to enforce top-down, heavy-handed mandates that spur litigation and raise costs on families and businesses. We can and must balance the need to protect our environment and economy. I believe Andrew Wheeler understands this dynamic well given his service within the agency as well as the Senate, which is why I voted to confirm him. I look forward to working with him to protect the residents of Arkansas and our environment." "The Senate has taken decisive action to confirm Andrew Wheeler as administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency," Barrasso said. "I believe he will do an excellent job leading the agency. As acting administrator of EPA, he has prioritized commonsense policies that protect our air and water, while allowing our economy to grow. I look forward to working with Administrator Wheeler in his new role." Background: On February 28, Andrew Wheeler was confirmed by the U.S. Senate to be the 15th Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) with a vote of 52-47. During his tenure at EPA, Administrator Wheeler has established a strong track record on deregulation, energy, environment, the rule of law and science-based decision-making. Administrator Wheeler has taken significant steps to clean up Superfund sites. EPA deleted all or part of 22 sites from the National Priorities List in fiscal year 2018 alone. This is the largest number of deletions in one year since fiscal year 2005. He has also taken significant actions to hold polluters accountable. According to his testimony before a U.S. Senate Committee, “In fiscal year 2018, EPA enforcement actions required the treatment, disposal, or elimination of 809 million pounds of pollutants and waste.” The EPA finalized 13 major deregulatory actions in 2018 alone, saving the American people nearly $1.8 billion in regulatory costs. In total, the Trump Administration has finalized more than 30 major deregulatory actions, restoring common sense to the regulatory process and bringing accountability to an agency that previously operated outside of statutory guidelines and Supreme Court rulings. Administrator Wheeler’s leadership in seeking to repeal WOTUS and rewrite a new definition of the Clean Water Act consistent with the Constitution is important to farmers, businesses and rural communities throughout the country.Courtesy of the Environmental Protection Agency Mr. Wheeler has dedicated his career to advancing sound environmental policies. He began his career during the George H. W. Bush Administration as a Special Assistant in EPA's Pollution Prevention and Toxics office. He was a Principal and the team leader of the Energy and Environment Practice Group at FaegreBD Consulting, as well as Counsel at Faegre Baker Daniels law firm, where he practiced since 2009. He also served as the Co-chair of the Energy and Natural Resources Industry team across the entire firm. Prior to his work with the firm, Mr. Wheeler served for six years as the Majority Staff Director and Chief Counsel, as well as the Minority Staff Director, of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works. Before his time at the full Senate EPW Committee, Mr. Wheeler served in a similar capacity for six years for the Subcommittee on Clean Air, Climate Change, Wetlands and Nuclear Safety. Mr. Wheeler is the past Chairman of the National Energy Resource Organization (NERO) and a Stennis Fellow. Mr. Wheeler is also an Eagle Scout. Mr. Wheeler was born in Hamilton, Ohio. He completed his law degree at Washington University in St. Louis, his MBA at George Mason University, and his undergraduate work at Case Western Reserve University in English and Biology. ###
02.26.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) introduced the Medical Innovation Never Stops Act to provide consistency and continuity for medical device manufacturers during lapses in government funding. The Medical Innovation Never Stops Act would allow the FDA to continue processing new device applications and associated user fees - which are paid entirely by the applicant, not the government - during a lapse in appropriations. This would ensure that medical devices awaiting approval in the review process can continue to move forward in a timely manner and the pipeline of new treatments can continue to be accessed by patients in need. “This common-sense fix will allow the FDA to access funds that companies have already agreed to pay for the review process,” Emmer said. “Patients deserve access to life-saving devices, and companies dedicated to providing these innovations should not have their hands tied by the government’s inability to provide adequate funding for its agencies." “Minnesota is a bedrock for medical technology and innovation. These companies work every day to provide critical research for life-saving devices. Putting the discovery of new breakthrough technologies at risk only hurts patients all around the country. I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass this common-sense legislation." CLICK HERE to read the full text of the bill. ###
02.15.2019	Otsego, MN – Today, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced that he will be holding a town hall in Carver County. “I place a high importance on town halls because the most crucial part of my job is to listen to the people I work for,” said Emmer. “These town halls are a great way for the people of Minnesota’s Sixth District to ask questions, and give their input on issues that matter most to them. I look forward to this town hall and hope to see many of you there!" Date: February 21, 2019Time: 7:00PM-8:00PMLocation: Norwood Young America City Hall 310 Elm Street W Norwood Young America, MN 55368 To keep up with what is happening in Washington, follow Congressman Emmer on Twitter and Facebook. If you would like to share your priorities for the 116th Congress, send a note here. ###
02.13.2019	Otsego, MN – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) and Congressman Collin Peterson (MN-07) will be co-hosting a bipartisan town hall to discuss agriculture and dairy programs. The event will be in Stearns County, which is split between two congressional districts. The eastern half is in Congressional District 6 and the western half is in Congressional District 7. DATE: Thursday, February 21, 2019TIME: 12:00 PM – 2:00 PMLOCATION: American Legion, 265 County Road 173 SE, Melrose, MN 56352 ###
02.06.2019	Washington, D.C. – Following President Trump’s State of the Union address, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement: “Much like the President, I too am optimistic about the future of our country. But we have a lot of work to do. I look forward to working alongside my colleagues in Congress to achieve continued economic growth and prosperity, new opportunities for all Americans, and the long-term security of our great nation. “Today, we forge a new path forward. Together - and only together - can we protect American workers while unleashing our nation's economic potential. We can rebuild our crumbling infrastructure, and lower our healthcare and prescription drug costs, while protecting this nation we all love. These achievements are wholly within our grasp. I look forward to building on the work of the previous Congress and delivering on our promises to the American people. “Despite our differences, we can work together to accomplish the shared goals that will bring prosperity and success to all Americans. There truly is no greater country than the United States of America." ###
02.05.2019	(Courtesy of the Congressional Western Caucus) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, members of the Western Caucus released statements of support for David Bernhardt's nomination for Secretary of the Department of the Interior: Chairman Paul Gosar (AZ-04): "Nobody knows the Department and Interior issues better than David Bernhardt. His intelligence, incredible work ethic and responsiveness are unmatched. A public servant for more than a decade, Acting Secretary Bernhardt has worked diligently to increase hunting and fishing access, ensure clean water for future generations and empower local decision-making. David is a champion of the West, sportsmen and rural communities. He is a man of impeccable integrity. No one is more qualified. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to confirm him as soon as possible." Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources Chairwoman Lisa Murkowski (AK): "I strongly support David Bernhardt to serve as the next Secretary of the Interior. He already has helped the Department accomplish a great deal for Alaska and the nation, both as deputy secretary and as acting secretary, and he is more than capable of leading on a permanent basis. I will schedule a hearing and seek to move his nomination forward as expeditiously as possible."House Natural Resources Committee Ranking Republican Rob Bishop (UT-01): "It’s a brilliant move. No one is more experienced and I look forward to working with him." Vice-Chairman for Indian Affairs and Oceans Don Young (AK-At Large): "I was very fortunate to meet with Acting Secretary David Bernhardt last week, and was impressed by his great knowledge on issues important to Alaska. Mr. Bernhardt is an honest, hardworking man and a tremendous asset to the Department of the Interior. It is imperative that the Senate swiftly confirm him as our next Secretary of the Interior. I wish Mr. Bernhardt the best of luck throughout the confirmation process, and hope he remains resilient against attacks from organizations that oppose responsible land use and resource development."Executive Vice-Chairman Scott Tipton (CO-03): "David is an excellent choice for Interior Secretary. His tenure as Deputy Secretary has shown his commitment to upholding multiple-use on public lands and representing the voices of the West in Washington. It will be great to see a native of the Third Congressional District of Colorado at the helm of Interior, and I look forward to our continued work together."Chief Rules Officer Dan Newhouse (WA-04): “I am proud to support President Trump’s nomination of Acting Secretary David Bernhardt for Secretary of the Department of the Interior. The Secretary of the Interior has the responsibility to oversee our country’s natural resources, and Acting Secretary Bernhardt has demonstrated his understanding of the complex issues we face in the Western United States from desperately-needed water infrastructure to catastrophic wildfire prevention and forest management. I have personally spoken with David about priorities in Central Washington—particularly on the need for local communities’ voices to be heard by federal agency decision-makers—and I look forward to working with him and the rest of the Administration to advance them.” Chief Infrastructure and Forestry Officer Bruce Westerman (AR-04): "During his tenure at the Department of Interior, Acting Secretary David Bernhardt has proven that he’s committed to our nation’s resources and public lands. I am eager to continue working with him, and hope for a swift confirmation in the Senate."Chief Regulatory Reform Officer Andy Biggs (AZ-05): "President Trump has been a great friend to people in the West. Over the last two years, the Department of the Interior repealed overreaching Obama-era regulations, streamlined the path for sustainable energy and natural resource development, and expanded access for hunting, fishing, and recreational shooting on public lands. I believe that Acting Secretary Bernhardt will build on the good work that Department of the Interior has done for western states, and I look forward to his swift confirmation."Chief Agriculture and Business Officer Doug LaMalfa (CA-01): "I applaud the decision by President Trump to nominate Acting Secretary Bernhardt for Secretary of the Department of the Interior. He has chosen a nominee that brings a wealth of industry experience and expertise to the table. Under this Administration, I’ve worked with the Department of Interior to help protect our public lands, increase water storage, and improve forest management policies in California - I expect that will continue under the leadership of Secretary Bernhardt. I urge the Senate to move quickly on the confirmation process."Chief Water and Wildlife Officer Tom McClintock (CA-04): "During the recent shutdown, David Bernhardt proved himself an exemplary leader and manager by taking extraordinary measures to keep our parks open for business and available to the American people. His practical, realistic and scientific approach to forest management is essential to the recovery of our public lands from years of federal neglect. He will be one of the great Secretaries of the Interior."National Republican Congressional Committee Chairman Tom Emmer (MN-06): "It is encouraging to see David Bernhardt nominated to serve as the next Secretary of the Interior. Through his various roles at the Department, under numerous administrations, Acting Secretary Bernhardt has developed an expertise few have. His deep understanding of the balance between management of federal lands, conservation, and development will serve our nation well. I look forward to seeing him confirmed soon." Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-42): "I want to offer my heartfelt congratulations to David Bernhardt on being nominated as our next Secretary of the Department of the Interior. David has done a tremendous job as Assistant and Acting Secretary with the Department, and this nomination is well deserved. I’m especially pleased to see someone with such an intimate knowledge of California’s water issues serve as our Interior Secretary. I think it’s a huge win for California to have someone with David’s experience in this role at a time when our state is making historic investments in water infrastructure projects that will deliver a reliable and affordable water supply for generations."Rep. Aumua Amata Radewagen (American Samoa-At Large): "The U.S. Territories depend on their relationship with the Interior Department and benefit when there is a consistent vision from its leadership. I appreciate President Trump’s nomination of Acting Secretary David Bernhardt to provide that important continuity to the Department, and I support Senate confirmation of the President’s choice."Rep. Ron Estes (KS-04): "I welcome President Trump’s nomination of Acting Secretary David Bernhardt for Secretary of the Department of the Interior. Upon confirmation, I look forward to continuing to work with Sec. Bernhardt and the Department on issues important to Kansas, including supporting farmers and ranchers, protecting our natural resources and finding a long-term solution to address water rights at the Quivira National Wildlife Refuge. I call on the Senate to swiftly confirm the president’s nomination."Rep. Russ Fulcher (ID-01): "Congratulations to Deputy Secretary Davis Bernhardt on his nomination for Secretary of the Department of Interior. I look forward to working together to support the Department's priorities to decrease burdensome regulations, encourage resource management at the local level, and support both American energy independence and the American workforce through wise management of our natural resources."Rep. Doug Lamborn (CO-05): "I applaud the nomination of David Bernhardt to serve as Secretary of the Department of the Interior. As a Colorado native, he has already accomplished great work in our home state. David has repeatedly demonstrated a capacity to translate his vast knowledge of water, public lands, and other western resource issues into policies that work. I trust the Senate will move quickly to confirm him quickly. I know he will keep delivering results that work for our country."Rep. Larry Bucshon (IN-08): "President Trump made the right choice in nominating Acting Interior Secretary David Bernhardt to permanently lead the department. His resume speaks volumes and he immediately brings to the table his institutional knowledge on Interior issues and how the department operates, which will make for a seamless transition. I urge the Senate to confirm to work quickly to confirm him."Rep. Ken Buck (CO-04): "It’s great to see a Colorado native nominated to lead the Department of the Interior. David Bernhardt brings tremendous leadership with him from our home state. I look forward to a swift confirmation process." Background: On Monday, President Donald J. Trump announced that he will be nominating Acting Secretary David Bernhardt as Secretary of the Interior. Click here to view the President Trump's tweet. Acting Secretary Bernhardt was nominated by President Trump for the position of Deputy Secretary in April 2017 and the U.S. Senate confirmed him in July 2017. Click here to view our press release applauding his confirmation as Deputy Secretary. Courtesy of the Department of the Interior Mr. Bernhardt is an avid hunter and angler and recently served on the Board of Game and Inland Fisheries for the Commonwealth of Virginia. He has in-depth experience in legal matters concerning active regulations and rule-makings, with years of legal experience in both the government and the private sector. His expertise ranges from the Endangered Species Act to Outer-Continental leases, from mining royalties to Indian Affairs. From 2001 and 2009, he held several positions within the Department of the Interior, including serving as Solicitor. In that capacity, he led the International Boundary Commission between the United States and Canada and was responsible, along with his Canadian counterpart, for maintaining the 5,525 mile international boundary between these two nations. Prior to that, he served then-Secretary Norton as a deputy solicitor, deputy chief of staff and counselor to the Secretary, and as director of Congressional and Legislative affairs and counselor to the Secretary. A native of Rifle, Colorado, Bernhardt earned a B.A. in political science with a minor in business administration from the University of Northern Colorado in Greeley in 1990. He graduated with honors from the George Washington University National Law Center in 1994 and is admitted to various state and federal court bars. He is married to Gena Bernhardt. They have two children and reside in Arlington, Virginia. ###
01.30.2019	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced today his subcommittee assignments for the House Financial Services Committee during the 116th Congress. Emmer has been selected to serve on the Subcommittee on Investor Protection, Entrepreneurship, and Capital Markets, and the Subcommittee on National Security, International Development, and Monetary Policy. Regarding his assignments, Emmer issued the following statement: “Minnesota's financial services industry is an impressive part of our business community and key sector throughout our state. I am honored to continue serving on the Financial Services Committee, and I look forward to serving on these subcommittees as we continue our efforts to create a stronger, free market system, and strengthen our economy so that all citizens of this great nation have the opportunity to prosper." Congressman Emmer was first appointed to the Financial Services Committee in May 2015. This will be Emmer’s third term serving on the Financial Services Committee. ###
01.18.2019	Legislation was inspired by Abby Honold, a former University of Minnesota student and rape survivor, and Officer Kevin Randolph, who helped Abby win her case against her perpetrator Minnesota Senator Amy Klobuchar introduced companion legislation in the Senate WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) reintroduced the Abby Honold Act, legislation to help law enforcement investigate and prosecute sexual assault cases while improving care and treatment for victims. Specifically, the bill will create a grant program to train law enforcement agencies willing to participate, in evidence-based, trauma-informed interview techniques to prevent re-traumatization of victims, improve communication between victims and law enforcement, and ensure accurate and complete information is submitted to law enforcement. Emmer stated: “Sexual assault is a crime and it is vital for law enforcement to have accurate and complete information to prosecute it as such,” Emmer added, “For Abby, and for the thousands of victims who experience trauma, this is a key part of their recovery process, as is a compassionate response in the immediate aftermath. We are taking an important step forward to provide better treatment to sexual assault victims in crisis and making certain it is treated like the heinous crime it is.” Background: When University of Minnesota student Abby Honold reported her rape to police in 2014, the trauma she experienced prevented her brain from recalling important details about the crime that occurred - ones which would have immediately led to the prosecution of the perpetrator. When a person experiences trauma, the cognitive part of their brain which records events, the prefrontal cortex, shuts down. Interview techniques to acquire needed facts from victims are designed to tap into this cognitive part of the brain, leaving those who have experienced trauma unable to recall critical details and information to help prosecute their perpetrator. Fortunately for Abby, she was taken to the hospital and cared for by a nurse who was trained to use a trauma-informed interviewing method. The nurse utilized her trauma-informed training to access another part of Abby’s brain, by asking questions about what she smelled, tasted, heard and other sensory information. Through her nurse’s compassion and expertise, Abby was able to recall the important details which ultimately aided the investigation of her case and led to the successful prosecution of her perpetrator. Inspired by her story, I worked with Senator Klobuchar to introduce the Abby Honold Act in both chambers of Congress during the 115th Congress. I am proud to reintroduce this legislation during the 116th Congress. This legislation is focused on helping our law enforcement officers improve the way they interview victims in crisis through the use of evidence-based, trauma-informed interview techniques. Read the full text of the Abby Honold Act here. ###
01.17.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced a new start time for his town hall scheduled for January 22 in Ramsey. This announcement comes following House Democrats cancellation of the district work week scheduled for the week of January 21. Upon learning that votes are now scheduled to occur in Washington, D.C. on the evening of January 22, Congressman Emmer issued the following statement: “It would be unfortunate to lose this opportunity to hear from my constituents as the 116th Congress gets underway. I’m grateful for the staff at the Ramsey City Hall and their work to accommodate this last minute change and look forward to having a productive discussion with the residents of the Sixth Congressional District.” Emmer added, “I hope the new House majority will use this additional week as an opportunity to negotiate with the President on border security and open the government.” DATE: January 22, 2019 NEW TIME: 9:00AM-10:00AM LOCATION: Ramsey City Hall – Alexander Ramsey Room 7550 Sunwood Drive NW Ramsey, MN 55303 ###
01.14.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced a series of bills that will bring regulatory relief, prioritize funding for critical infrastructure projects, provide a technical fix for the tax treatment of recreational vehicles and campers, and support ongoing blockchain innovation. “These bills are a symbol of my commitment to creating jobs, investing in Minnesota’s transportation infrastructure, and encouraging financial innovation right here at home.” Emmer said.The National Interchange/Intersection Safety Construction Program Act Congressman Emmer’s first bill introduced in the 116th Congress is the National Interchange/Intersection Safety Construction Program Act. This legislation prioritizes funding for intersections and interchanges, improves safety, and increases local control over federal transportation dollars. The bill will prioritize a portion of federal highway funds for interchange and intersection development, and allow projects to compete for those funds. This legislation will not increase spending or require additional appropriations, rather a portion of annual existing federal highway funds will be targeted for local entities to apply and compete. “Minnesotans know firsthand the insufficient interchanges and intersections on highways like 10, 35, 55, and 94,” said Emmer. “This bill will not only set aside funds dedicated to making sure intersections and interchanges are safe, but it will also relieve congestion so Minnesotans can keep moving and our state’s businesses can grow and thrive.” Read the full text of the National Interchange/Intersection Safety Construction Program Act here. The Main Street Growth Act The Main Street Growth Act, (H.R. 5877 in the 115th Congress) is another legislative priority for Representative Emmer during the 116th Congress. This legislation – which was unanimously – approved by the House of Representatives during the 115th Congress – will facilitate the creation of venture exchanges, creating jobs, improving capital formation and encouraging more early-stage Initial Public Offerings (IPOs). Specifically, this bill will allow the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to provide for the creation of venture exchanges. These specialized securities exchanges will help small and emerging growth companies gain access to the capital they need to grow and succeed. The Main Street Growth Act also passed 56-0 out of the Financial Services Committee, showcasing it’s wide bi-partisan support. “It is critical that our capital market structure meets the needs of American companies, regardless of size or type. This legislation, if enacted, will make it easier for thousands of small and emerging growth companies – including over 100 in Minnesota - to go public, generating millions of jobs and trillions of dollars in revenue for the economy. I look forward to both sides of the aisle coming together to ensure that American entrepreneurs and workers can continue to succeed,” added Emmer. Read the full text of the Main Street Growth Act here. The Blockchain Regulatory Certainty Act The Blockchain Regulatory Certainty Act, encourages development of innovative new technologies in the United States. Specifically, the measure confirms that blockchain innovators who do not take control of consumer funds, do not need to register as a money transmitter. Examples of these entities include "miners" that validate network integrity and multi-signature providers that provide enhanced asset security to users. For the new Congress, Representative Darren Soto (D-FL) has joined as the bipartisan co-lead. Emmer added, “The United States should prioritize accelerating the development of blockchain technology and create an environment that enables the American private sector to lead on innovation and further growth. These technologies hold untold promise for our economy and for all Americans.” Read the full text of the Blockchain Regulatory Certainty Act here.The Travel Trailer and Camper Tax Parity Act Finally, the Travel Trailer and Camper Tax Parity Act makes a small change to the tax code which will provide consistency and clarity for recreational vehicle (RV) and camper dealers, their employees and consumers. While the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act made many important changes to the way businesses can deduct interest and depreciate expenses through clearer definitions and guidelines, towable RVs and campers were inadvertently excluded from the definition of Motor Vehicle, preventing dealers and retailers from obtaining critical financing when purchasing new inventory of RVs. "The way the law is currently written leaves our RV dealers without the clarity and consistency they need, putting them at an unnecessary competitive disadvantage," said Emmer. "Since RV ownership continues to climb in Minnesota and across the country, it is imperative for Congress to immediately correct the tax code by passing this common sense legislation." “I look forward to moving these bills forward and following through on the priorities important to the constituents of Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District.” Emmer concluded. Read the full text of the Travel Trailer and Camper Technical Correction Act here. ###
01.09.2019	Otsego, MN – Today, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced that he will be holding a town hall in Anoka County. “As Congressman for Minnesota’s Sixth District, it is my number one priority to answer to the people that I represent,” said Emmer. “Town halls are a great platform for people to ask questions and have their concerns addressed. I am excited for this town hall, and I hope to see many familiar faces in the crowd!” Date: January 22, 2019 Time: 7:00PM-8:00PM Location: Ramsey City Hall – Alexander Ramsey Room 7550 Sunwood Drive NW Ramsey, MN 55303 For more information on this event, visit here. To keep up with what is happening in Washington, follow Congressman Emmer on Twitter and Facebook. If you would like to share your priorities for the 116th Congress, send a note here. ###
12.20.2018	(Courtesy of the Congressional Western Caucus) WASHINGTON, D.C.– Today, members of the Congressional Western Caucus released statements following signing of the Farm Bill into law by President Donald J. Trump Chief Defense and Interior Officer Chris Stewart (UT-02): “Westerners have cause to celebrate the signing of the Farm Bill. Not only did it provide certainty for our farmers, it included many of my priorities that will deliver much needed habitat restoration for sage grouse and mule deer. Restoring western landscapes while mitigating the risk of catastrophic wildfires is a win for everyone.” Chief Rules Officer Dan Newhouse (WA-04): “Thank you, President Trump, for signing this critical legislation on behalf of Farm Country. The 2018 Farm Bill is a major accomplishment that gives Central Washington farmers and agriculture producers across the country much-needed certainty and a secure safety net.” Vice Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee Glenn “GT” Thompson (PA-05): “We were able to make significant reforms improving a number of programs, notably the safety net for our dairy farmers our dairy program. Our dairy farmers have continued to face difficult times over the past decade and we look for the law to provide some much needed stability to the sector. Overall, this is a huge win for producers, rural communities, and American consumers.” Rep. Ralph Abraham (LA-05): “The Farm Bill provides our farmers, ranchers and foresters with stability and the strong safety net that they need to plan for their futures. I’m proud of the work we did to get this bill over the finish line, and I’m glad it is now law.” Rep. Ron Estes (KS-04): “It was an honor to join President Trump at the White House today as the Farm Bill was signed into law. This law, combined with new work requirements from the Secretary of Agriculture, will provide Kansas farmers and ranchers with needed certainty, make historic investments in rural broadband, and help get people back to work to grow our economy. With the Farm Bill complete, I look forward to continuing to work on new ways to support Kansas agriculture, particularly through free and fair trade deals.” Rep. Steve King (IA-04): “I couldn’t be happier that President Trump is signing a Farm Bill into law today that meets the immediate needs of rural America. As a member of the House Agriculture Committee, I worked to ensure that this legislation would promote increased foreign trade, provide producers with predictability, support a FMD vaccine bank, preserve funding for biofuel programs, and strengthen rural broadband services. The Farm Bill we crafted accomplishes all of these good things and many more.” Rep. Tom Emmer (MN-06): “I am proud President Trump joined Congress to put our nation’s farmers first. Today, the President signed into law important programs for our farmers, including my STRESS Act language, improved dairy risk management tools, funded programs to assist beginning farmers, and better improved livestock disease prevention and response mechanisms as part of this year’s Farm Bill. Finally, our farmer’s will get the support they deserve.” Background: On Thursday, December 20, 2018, President Donald J. Trump signed into law H.R. 2, the “Agricultural Improvement Act of 2018,” a bill introduced by Western Caucus Member Mike Conaway (TX-11). A short Committee-drafted highlights page is here. Longer Committee summary here. Messaging & talking points here. Text vis the Conference Report can be found here. The core of the package is the commodities title, Title I. Regardless of a Member’s ideological stance on subsidy, price guarantee and similar government interventions into a market, the fact remains that these programs, by longstanding Congressional direction, have become an entrenched part of the domestic agricultural market, without which the U.S. agricultural industry would suffer amazing losses. The resulting market voids would be filled by foreign competitors, providing them advantage while diminishing food quality and safety just as our nation’s farmers go out of business. Similarly, program lapses and overall uncertainty have extremely detrimental effects on this industry, which is under additional pressures due to ongoing trade disputes. Net farm income for 2018 is already projected to be at the lowest level since 2002, and a 50% drop has taken place over the last five years. This is the largest such drop since the Great Depression, per the House Committee on Agriculture. On account of the relationship between the provisions of Title I and the U.S. agricultural industry, the prudent and responsible action for stability in U.S. food markets and the livelihoods of those in the agricultural industry can only be passage of the Farm Bill. Title II, the conservation title, could be the strongest conservation title of any Farm Bill for Western Members. Increased funding proposals for the Environmental Quality Inceptives Program (EQIP), the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP), and the Agriculture Conservation Easement Program (ACEP) are contained in the Conference Report – all welcome fiscal adjustments to useful environmental and soil conservation programs. The Conservation Stewardship Program is restructured to provide better incentives for farmers to address local resource concerns; funding for the program is reduced from $1.8 billion/year to no greater than $1 billion, with the difference being rerouted to the EQIP, ACEP and the Regional Conservation Partnership Program (RCPP). The Conference Report provides $500 million for important conservation infrastructure initiatives that include flood prevention and watershed rehabilitation. Title II also establishes the Feral Swine Eradication and Control Pilot Program, in order to address the $1.5 billion in damages associated with these invasive species. The Title provides important revenues for the Voluntary Public Access Program and reauthorizes the Conservation of Private Grazing Land Program. On balance, the Title provides a smarter allocation of scarce and useful conservation & environmental control resources while improving incentives for such resources to be effectively used as intended. There is also policy progress along the lines of rural broadband, the opiate crisis, rural development and mental health care access in Title VI. Secretarial authority to make grants for rural broadband is expanded and standards thereof are improved for rural America. As pertains to rural health, the Conference Report increases resources for treatment quality and access and addresses record farmer suicide rates by reestablishing the Farm and Ranch Stress Assistance Network. Title VII provides important revenues for universities and research. The Conference Report provides new resources to strengthen the land‐grant university system. Title VIII contains forestry provisions which enhance prevention and treatment of catastrophic wildfire. Insect and disease categorical exclusions to standard environmental review are renewed and expanded to expedite the removal of hazardous fuels from forests. Another categorical exclusion is added for federal land plots up to 4,500 acres for purposes of promoting Greater Sage Grouse and Mule Deer habitat. Good Neighbor Authority, whereby the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) may enter into cooperative forest management agreements with other entities, is expanded to authorize the USFS to enter into such agreements with counties and Indian Tribes. This adds several important, new tools to the USFS toolkit, improving their flexibility in addressing specific forest management problems. Finally, the Title authorizes USFS to establish a privately-funded pilot program for utility infrastructure rights-of-way vegetation management, in which limited vegetation management near electricity infrastructure outside of a right of way can be employed in order to stave off wildfires started by contact between trees or vegetation and power lines. ###
12.19.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) expressed support for efforts that will help combat the practice of trafficking of Cuban baseball players. “Today, Major League Baseball, the MLB Players Association, and the Cuban Baseball Federation reached an important agreement that will help address the issue of human trafficking that so many Cuban baseball players experience as they seek to play in the United States,” said Emmer. “It is great to see all parties take the initiative and put together a targeted agreement which will stop the repeated exploitation of these players and their families.” The agreement establishes a framework for Cuban athletes to enter into the Major League system after certain criteria are met. This agreement is consistent with other agreements reached between MLB and countries like Japan, and Korea. Throughout his time in Congress, Congressman Emmer has supported numerous efforts to combat human trafficking in the United States and globally. These efforts include the Congressman’s support of legislation like the Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection Reauthorization Act, H.R. 2200, and the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2017, H.R. 1312. In addition, Congressman Emmer serves as a Co-Chair of the Bipartisan Congressional Cuba Working Group. He is the lead sponsor of the Cuba Trade Act, H.R. 442, to lift the current economic embargo on Cuba, and you can read more about his work on Cuba, here. ###
12.12.2018	Legislation includes Emmer’s STRESS Act to combat farmer suicide, provisions to improve dairy risk management tools, and provides funding for livestock disease prevention. WASHINGTON, DC – Today, following passage of the Conference Report for the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018, commonly called the Farm Bill, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement: “Today, Congress put the nation’s farmers first. This Farm Bill includes improvements specifically needed for farmers in Minnesota’s Sixth District, including better dairy risk management tools, funding to assist beginning farmers, and livestock disease prevention and response. I was proud to cast my vote in support of this legislation,” said Congressman Emmer, whose district encompasses areas of rural Minnesota including parts of Stearns, Benton, Wright and Sherburne Counties. “As this legislation heads to the President’s desk, I am grateful to see the reauthorization of the Farm and Ranch Stress Assistance Network included. I take heart knowing my colleagues on both sides of the aisle have been supportive of this effort to deliver more mental health treatment to our farmers. They have suffered in silence for far too long,” added Emmer. The STRESS Act language will reauthorize of the Farm and Ranch Stress Assistance Network (FRSAN) to give states needed resources to provide mental health services for farmers and ranchers. FRSAN was first authorized in 2008, though it did not receive funding and therefore lapsed. Farmers suffer a rate of suicide several times higher than the normal population. This is an important effort towards restoring our nation's attention to Americans in farming. Learn more about the STRESS Act here and read the full legislative text here. Read the full legislative text of the Conference Report for the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 here. ###
12.11.2018	(Courtesy of the Congressional Western Caucus) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, members of the Congressional Western Caucus commended the EPA's official repeal of WOTUS: Chairman Paul Gosar (AZ-04): "Like a villain in Scooby Doo, the past Administration almost got away with an unparalleled expansion of Federal power. The WOTUS land and water-grab rule proposed by the Obama Administration was one of the greatest regulatory threats to the West and rural communities. Fortunately, this legally-dubious effort was unmasked for what it was by the Supreme Court and this Administration. I’m happy to see some sanity restored to Clean Water Act implementation. Thank you Acting Administrator Wheeler and President Trump for taking the lead and crafting a definition that adheres to the original law, promotes extremely clean and safe waterways, and remains Federalist in its nature."Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-42): "The Clean Water Act is an essential law that has made a tremendous impact protecting and improving the quality of one of our most precious resources. The updated WOTUS rule will help ensure our federal resource agencies are able to focus their efforts on our most significant waterways. It will also help eliminate the use of the Clean Water Act as a tool by serial litigants and extreme environmentalists to attack private property rights." Executive Vice Chairman Scott Tipton (CO-03): "The Obama Administration’s Waters of the United States Rule (WOTUS) was one of the most onerous federal water and land grabs in this nation’s history, usurping long-held state water law, threatening access to private water rights and jeopardizing the success of the economy. The damaging impact of WOTUS cannot be disregarded, so the EPA’s proposed new rule is welcome news. It is high time that we provide certainty to America’s farmers, ranchers and landowners, whose livelihoods rely on water."Vice Chairman for Indian Affairs and Oceans Don Young (AK-At Large): "The Obama-era WOTUS rule is a shining example of federal overreach. I’m pleased to see Administrator Wheeler take action in implementing President Trump’s promise to overturn this shortsighted rule. I will continue to work with this administration to ensure state and local governments are able to effectively manage their waters without the unnecessary and inconsistent oversight of the federal government." Chief Rules Officer Dan Newhouse (WA-04): "I applaud the EPA’s decision to repeal the burdensome WOTUS rule and give clarification to land owners, farmers, and ranchers across the country. The Obama Administration’s WOTUS rule gave the federal government unprecedented power to expansively interpret the definition of a ‘navigable waterway.’ I know farmers and ranchers in Central Washington will continue to strive to be good stewards of their land and the environment, and the Trump Administration’s newly-defined rule will finally give them the certainty they deserve."Chief Regulatory Reform Officer Andy Biggs (AZ-05): "I support Acting Administrator Wheeler’s efforts to change course from the unconstitutional Obama-era WOTUS rule. This rule is a blatant attack on property rights and is an expansion of government bureaucracy. I am hopeful that this new administrative action will bring much-needed relief to farmers, ranchers, and minors across the West. I continue to call on Congress to codify the administration’s positive steps."Rep. Alex Mooney (WV-02): "Replacing the Obama-era Waters of the United States rule is another example of President Donald Trump fulfilling the promises he made to all Americans. The previous rule represented the very worst of federal government overreach by regulating any puddle or trickle of water such as my constituent Lois Alt in Hardy County, West Virginia. This rule hindered farmers, land owners and communities across West Virginia. I applaud the Trump Administration for crafting a rule that respects private property rights and gives states flexibility in managing water within their borders." Rep. Ron Estes (KS-04): "The Trump administration’s new WOTUS Rule is a win for farmers and ranchers across Kansas and our nation. By removing Obama-era regulations and providing needed certainty to the application of the Clean Water Act, this rule gives power back to states and farmers on how best to protect the environment while strengthening our economy. I am thankful the EPA and the U.S. Army listened to stakeholders in crafting this rule and look forward to its implementation." Rep. Pete Olson (TX-22): "The proposed changes to Waters of the United States by the EPA and the Department of the Army are the right call. These much needed improvements return power to the states and the people, and limit the intrusive Federal overreach the original proposal created. I applaud this decision that brings common sense back to water use decisions for local governments, farmers and the people." Rep. Tom McClintock (CA-04): "The Obama ‘Waters of the United States Rule’ that extended EPA control over all waterways in direct contravention of the Clean Waters Act was unwise as policy and unconstitutional as law. The new rule that replaces it moves us back to common sense and constitutional limits." Rep. Tom Emmer (MN-06): "I applaud the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers for their proposed WOTUS rule. Our nation’s farmers, ranchers and land owners across the country deserve clarity on where the Clean Water Act applies, and more importantly where it does not. Like all Minnesotans, I believe that we need to be good stewards of our land and waterways, and this new rule will accomplish just that." Rep. Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (PA-05): “The Obama Administration’s Waters of the United States rule was an unprecedented land grab that expanded the reach of the Clean Water Act far beyond Congressional intent. Farmers, ranchers and those who live off the land deserve certainty in how the law is administered, yet the WOTUS proposal did the complete opposite and only added more confusion. Uncertainty has governed the lives of farmers and ranchers for too long, and I fully support President Trump’s efforts to truly clarify the Clean Water Act.”Rep. Duncan Hunter (CA-50): "It had long been the goal of those of us who seek to improve and protect the private property rights of all Americans to clearly define the regulatory definition of 'waters of the United States.' With the help and support of a President who has committed his administration toward the goal of limiting government overreach, private homeowners, farmers and ranchers will have peace of mind on their own property, knowing they can move forward with simple projects that in years before would have required months of waiting for a federal permit and thousands of dollars spent on legal professionals."Rep. Rick Crawford (AR-01): "This provision is a broad government overreach that confuses our farmers, ranchers, and small business owners while taking away an individual’s ability to make decisions regarding their own property. I look forward to this new rule that will curtail the current regulation that views a ditch as equivalent to a major waterway and digresses from Congressional intent. This common-sense reform will relieve our agriculture producers from Obama-era overly burdensome requirements." Rep. Debbie Lesko (AZ-08): "I applaud the EPA and the Trump Administration for taking action to end the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule and restore power to Arizona’s farmers, ranchers, and landowners. This land and water grabbing rule created under the Obama Administration is a prime example of a federal overreach placing unnecessary burdens on states and property owners. It’s time for the onerous WOTUS rule to be repealed once and for all.”Rep. Markwayne Mullin (OK-02): “The Waters of the United States (WOTUS) Rule has been detrimental to our country’s farmers and ranchers since the day it was put in place by the Obama Administration. The federal government doesn’t belong regulating every creek, ditch, and stream. This proposed replacement rule from the Trump Administration gives farmers, ranchers, and small business owners the power to take care of their backyards without the unnecessary red tape they face now. I applaud the Trump Administration for the proposed rule.”Rep. Garret Graves (LA-06): "The 2015 rule was an unconstitutional expansion of federal power that used bureaucrat-speak to strip landowners of their rights and local governments of their ability to manage waters within their borders. This new approach is the product of doing it the right way – openly, with the input of the American people. The new rule respects the rights of private property owners and the sovereignty of states, right-sizes the federal government’s role in enforcement and provides clarity where there was confusion. Instead of forcing a top-down, one-size-fits-all mandate, it recognizes that the issues on the ground in places like Arizona are fundamentally different than in places like Louisiana and gives states the flexibility to manage those differences. Most importantly, it doesn’t compromise the goal: preventing pollution, ensuring clean water and protecting wetlands."Rep. Mike Johnson (LA-04): "Regulating back yard ditches and mud puddles does nothing to ensure Americans’ access to safe, clean and reliable water. It does, however, far exceed the powers granted to the federal government. Thankfully, the Trump administration’s new plan clearly defines what is, and more importantly, what is not, subject to the Clean Water Act. Farmers and ranchers all across the U.S. can rest easy knowing their privacy and their land will be protected from government encroachment.”Rep. Greg Gianforte, MT-AL: “President Obama’s Waters of the U.S. mandate further empowers federal bureaucrats in Washington and threatens our Montana way of life, particularly for our farmers and ranchers. Today’s announcement from the Trump administration seeks to roll back federal overreach, clarify the federal government’s jurisdiction, and return power to states and tribes to manage their waters. The administration’s proposal will reduce uncertainty and help Montana’s farmers and ranchers.”Rep. Jim Banks (IN-03): “Our nation’s farmers and landowners have spent millions fighting the overreach of the 2015 Obama-era rule. The Trump Administration is right to narrow the scope, delivering much needed clarification on the definition and relief from bureaucracy run amok.”Rep. Doug Lamborn (CO-05): “The Obama-era WOTUS Rule was an unnecessarily overreach by EPA, which hampered growth in communities across America. It expanded the EPA’s jurisdiction, leading to burdensome red tape for individuals and bureaucratic control over drainage diches, agricultural ponds, and isolated wetlands. The farmers, builders, and landowners in this country deserve freedom from burdensome and ambiguous federal regulations and flawed rules. I believe each state reserves the right to determine the best land management for itself. I’m pleased the EPA repealed and replaced WOTUS with reasonable regulatory reforms that complement existing state and tribal regulations and programs. I’m confident the benefits will be reaped for years to come.”Rep. Doug LaMalfa (CA-01): “After listening to those directly impacted by one of the previous Administration’s most harmful rules, the EPA is replacing WOTUS with something that actually makes sense for land and business owners. Instead of attempting to needlessly regulate every puddle, ditch, and furrow in America, the new rule will focus on bodies of water and wetlands that are physically and meaningfully connected to other bodies of jurisdictional water. Now, those driving our economy will spend less time and money on land-use decisions and litigation and more time on running their business. States will finally have a clear definition of where federal jurisdiction ends and begins, as well as the ability to properly manage their own water. WOTUS was nothing short of a job-killing Washington power grab, and I’m glad to see it replaced with something that works.”Rep. Ralph Norman (SC-05): “I applaud the Trump Administration, the Environment Protection Agency (EPA), and the Department of the Army for their committed efforts to reigning in the overreaching Obama-era definition of 'Waters of the United States' commonly known as WOTUS. We need clarity, predictability, and consistency. The Trump Administration has done just that by proposing a new rule that clearly lays out when federal jurisdiction will apply to WOTUS under the Clean Water Act. This new ruling will allow for federal oversight to be balanced with state authority to regulate their waters. This clearly defined partnership will allow for navigable waters to be regulated appropriately, while avoiding the negative impacts of federal overreach on farmers and ranchers, that is currently occurring. I look forward to supporting this new rule and working with the Trump Administration to ensure implementation of this new definition. This clearly defined partnership will allow for navigable waters to be regulated appropriately, while avoiding the negative impacts of federal overreach on farmers and ranchers, that is currently occurring. I look forward to supporting this new rule and working with the Trump Administration to ensure implementation of this new definition.”Rep. Roger Marshall (KS-01): "The Trump Administration deserves accolades from rural America for their continued actions to repeal the misguided Waters of the United States rule. As Kansans know entirely too well, the Obama WOTUS rule dramatically expanded the reach of the federal government with minimal improvement in water quality. Today’s announcement serves as a tremendous relief to landowners and farmers. This is yet another exciting step in fulfilling this Administration and Congress’ promise to return government to its proper role."Rep. Bob Gibbs (OH-07): “I applaud President Trump’s efforts to reverse the power grab attempted by the Obama Administration. It is clear enforcement of the Clean Water Act must be a collaborative effort between the federal and state government. This is an issue I’ve been fighting for several years, working to make sure our agriculture community, homebuilders, private property advocates, and local governments are given a clear set of jurisdictional rules. We can protect the environment, encourage economic growth, and safeguard private property rights without unnecessarily expanding federal jurisdiction. This WOTUS rule does that while providing the certainty our nation’s farmers and ranchers need.” Rep. Ralph Abraham (LA-05): “Obama’s WOTUS simply went too far – a puddle of water that might run into a ditch that then might run into a stream or river is by no means a navigable waterway and should not be treated as such. I’m still reviewing the new rule, but I’m pleased with what I’ve seen so far. We all want clean water, and we can achieve that without handing over our land rights to the EPA.” Background: Courtesy of the Environmental Protection Agency Today, December 11, 2018, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Department of the Army (Army) proposed a revised definition of “waters of the United States,” which would delineate the scope of federal regulatory authority under the Clean Water Act in a clear and understandable way. The agencies are concerned that the previous administration’s 2015 Rule defining “waters of the United States” may have greatly expanded Washington’s control over local land use decisions. The agencies’ new proposal respects the constitutional and statutory limits of federal government to regulate navigable water under the Clean Water Act and gives states and tribes more flexibility to determine how best to manage waters within their borders. The agencies’ new proposed definition will fulfill President Trump’s commitment to end this federal overreach. It ends year of uncertainty over where federal jurisdiction begins and ends. It is clear and easy to understand. It will help landowners understand whether a project on his or her property will require a federal permit or not, without spending tens of thousands of dollars on engineering and legal professionals. This certainty and clarity will save Americans time and money while accelerating infrastructure projects and economic development. Right now, because of litigation, the 2015 “waters of the United States” rule is in effect in 22 states, the District of Columbia, and the U.S. territories; and the previous regulations, issued in the 1980s, are in effect in the remaining 28 states. This inconsistent regulatory patchwork creates uncertainty and hinders projects that can benefit both the environment and the economy. The proposed definition would establish national consistency and would rebalance the relationship between the federal government and states in managing land and water resources. States already have their own regulations for waters within their borders, regardless of whether they are federally regulated as “waters of the United States.” The agencies’ new proposal will eliminate the time-consuming and uncertain process of determining whether a “significant nexus” exists between a water and a downstream traditional navigable water as directed under the agencies’ 2008 Rapanos Guidance or whether a water has a significant nexus to a traditional navigable water, interstate water or territorial sea as codified in the agencies’ 2015 Rule defining “waters of the United States.” EPA and the Army listened to those directly impacted by the regulations and are proposing a definition that includes the following key aspects: Excludes ephemeral streams and related features. Covers only adjacent wetlands that are physically and meaningfully connected to other jurisdictional waters. Cuts most ditches from unnecessary federal regulation. Eliminates the use of subjective tests to determine jurisdiction over individual waters. Retains exclusions for groundwater, prior converted cropland, stormwater control systems, some wastewater recycling structures, groundwater recharge basins, and waste treatment systems from federal Clean Water Act regulation. Regulates perennial and intermittent tributaries to traditional navigable waters. The agencies will take comment on the proposal for 60 days after publication in the Federal Register. The agencies will also hold an informational webcast on January 10, 2019, and will host a public hearing on the proposed rule in Kansas City, KS, on January 23, 2019. Additional information on both engagements is available at https://www.epa.gov/wotus-rule. Comments on the proposal should be identified by Docket ID No. EPA-HQ-OW-2018-0149 and may be submitted online. Go to https://www.regulations.gov Courtesy of the Congressional Western Caucus One of the Western Caucus’ main priorities is repealing the Obama Administration’s Water of the United States (WOTUS) rule, which was finalized by former EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy in 2015. On March 25, 2014, the EPA and the Corps of Engineers released a proposed rule that would assert Clean Water Act jurisdiction over nearly all areas with even the slightest of connections to water resources, including man-made conveyances. Specifically, this WOTUS Rule attempted to expand agency control over 60% of our country’s streams and millions of acres of wetlands that were previously non-jurisdictional. The Obama Administration tried to make the case that “waters of the United States” refers not just to permanent bodies of navigable water, but to far smaller bodies of water including those that are tiny, seasonal or even ones that do not connect up with larger water systems. This was an astounding departure from longstanding interpretation of the Clean Water Act that expanded federal power to reach into every nook and cranny of our nation’s waterways under a flimsy Commerce Clause argument. Family farmers were kept awake at night, worried that rains wouldn’t let up before turning their puddles into regulated ponds and running them out of business in the process. Recreational water and marsh users were rightfully wary that Federal regulators would invade their turf and suddenly declare their sport of choice too harmful on the waterway. Developers preemptively pulled out of projects deemed at high risk of falling under federal environmental jurisdiction – all because the Feds may declare a nearby ditch jurisdictional. And when they do declare jurisdiction, it’s not just water under the bridge. Individual Clean Water Act permits have taken an average of 788 days to process and $271,596 on the part of the applicant; fines and criminal liability await those who skirt these requirements. Lives and livelihoods are at stake. WOTUS negatively impacts states throughout the country by impeding upon state’s rights, encroaching on private lands, and violating the civil liberties of many Americans. On 05/21/2018, Western Caucus Member Jim Banks (IN-03) introduced an amendment to the Farm Bill that would repeal WOTUS. It passed the House with a bipartisan vote of 238-173 and 13 Democrats supporting repeal. View Western Caucus Press Releases on WOTUS and the Farm Bill here and here. View letter sent to Farm Bill Conferees by Reps. Banks and Walker, Western Caucus Members and 51 total Members urging repeal of WOTUS here. On 07/19/2018, H.R. 6147, the Department of the Interior, Environment, Financial Services, and General Government Appropriations Act of 2019 passed the House of Representatives. One of the numerous provisions that the bill contained was a Western Caucus provision to repeal WOTUS. View the Western Caucus Press Release here. Last Congress, more than 170 bipartisan members cosponsored legislation calling for WOTUS to be repealed and another 120 bipartisan signed a letter urging repeal. That request can be found here. ###
12.10.2018	WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Tina Smith, and Representatives Tom Emmer, Collin Peterson, Rick Nolan and Betty McCollum urged the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to reinstate full funding for Minnesota’s reinsurance program. Although CMS indicated that Minnesota should expect $183,930,230 for plan year 2019, the state received a letter on November 30, 2018 stating that Minnesota would receive only $84,757,861 –which would be about $100 million less than the anticipated amount. Minnesota’s reinsurance program stabilizes the state’s insurance marketplace to ensure that more Minnesotans have access to affordable, quality health care. “A sudden notification that CMS would be reducing federal funding by roughly $100 million just one month before the 2019 plan year has created significant uncertainty for our state, and to date CMS has offered no explanation for why this dramatic reduction in funding has occurred,” the members wrote. “We strongly urge CMS to reconsider its decision and provide a level of pass-through funding for Minnesota that more closely matches the figure provided in the original 2017 agreement.” The full text of the letter can be found below: Dear Administrator Verma and Secretary Mnuchin: We write to express our serious concerns in response to the recent decision from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to reduce funding for Minnesota’s reinsurance program by approximately $100 million for the 2019 plan year. On September 22, 2017, CMS approved Minnesota’s 1332 State Innovation Waiver to implement a reinsurance program and outlined the funding that Minnesota could expect to receive for plan years 2019 through 2022. Although CMS indicated that Minnesota should expect $183,930,230 for plan year 2019, the state received a letter on November 30 of 2018 stating that Minnesota would receive only $84,757,861 – which would be about $100 million less than the anticipated amount. Minnesota’s 1332 waiver was an agreement with the federal government to stabilize the state’s insurance marketplace to ensure that more Minnesotans would have access to affordable, quality health care. A sudden notification that CMS would be reducing federal funding by roughly $100 million just one month before the 2019 plan year has created significant uncertainty for our state, and to date CMS has offered no explanation for why this dramatic reduction in funding has occurred. We strongly urge CMS to reconsider its decision and provide a level of pass-through funding for Minnesota that more closely matches the figure provided in the original 2017 agreement. We also respectfully request responses to the following questions: What were the methods and assumptions used when calculating the pass-through funds for plan year 2019? Please also explain the $100 million discrepancy from the estimated amount for plan year 2019. Was the effectiveness of Minnesota’s reinsurance program in reducing premiums a factor for a reduction in pass-through funds, and if so, to what extent? What steps can Minnesota take to prepare for future plan years to avoid the uncertainty that stems from pass-through funding that is inconsistent with the estimated figures outlined in the 1332 waiver approval letter? Thank you for your attention to this serious and urgent matter. Sincerely, ###
12.06.2018	(Courtesy of Congressman Andy Biggs) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Andy Biggs and 42 cosponsors introduced a resolution to commemorate the one-year anniversary of President Donald Trump’s official recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of the State of Israel and the announcement of his intention to relocate the American embassy to Jerusalem. Congressman Biggs, along with many of the cosponsors, released the following statements:“Israel is one of the United States’ most enduring allies, and President Trump kept a significant promise by recognizing Jerusalem as Israel’s capital and announcing his intention to move our embassy to Jerusalem. That embassy was opened in Jerusalem earlier this year. These milestones signify our commitment to our ally. I thank my many colleagues who joined me in this resolution.” – Congressman Andy Biggs (AZ-05)“I am pleased to be an original cosponsor on this important legislation. This year has marked a restoration of the U.S.-Israel relationship. President Trump’s moving of the U.S. Embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem was monumental not because he is the first president to promise this move, but because he is the only president who made good on that promise. I have supported moving the embassy since my start in Congress and am proud to have seen it come to fruition. I want to thank my colleague Rep. Biggs for initiating this great commemoration and for working with me collaboratively on the final bill.” – Congressman Doug Lamborn (CO-05)“Today, we celebrate the one-year anniversary of President Trump’s momentous decision to move the U.S. Embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to the recognized capital of Jerusalem. During his campaign, President Trump committed to finally make this move, and I applaud him displaying strong leadership and courageous action in support of one of America’s closest allies in the world.” – House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (LA-01)“My support remains unwavering for President Trump’s courageous and just decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. This decision is a profound reflection of the President’s commitment to fulfilling his promises and advancing peace in the Middle East.” – Congressman Gregg Harper (MS-03)“One year ago, President Trump announced his decision to recognize Jerusalem as the unquestionable capital of Israel. The United States was the first to recognize Israel’s independence in 1948. This May, we celebrated 70 years of Israeli independence, and in a sign of our support, ceremoniously moved the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem, again becoming the first country to do so. I applaud President Trump’s leadership as we continue to reinforce our commitment to our closest friend and ally, Israel, and support her right to defend herself.” – Congressman David Kustoff (TN-08)“Jerusalem is the rightful capital of Israel. The recognition of this reality continues to build on our two nation’s special bond which is why I support Representative Biggs’ resolution to commemorate the anniversary of the President’s declaration. Our ally has continuously stood by our side, and we should continue to stand by them.” – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06)“Moving our embassy to Jerusalem, Israel’s self-declared, historic, and eternal capital, sent a strong message to the world, that Israel is an ally of the United States and a bulwark of democracy and freedom in the Middle East.” – Congressman Ken Buck (CO-04)“On the one-year anniversary of President Trump’s recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, a momentous event, I am proud to co-sponsor this resolution affirming our support for the United States’ strongest Middle East ally, a Jewish homeland, and the Israeli people. Although Congress authorized moving the U.S. embassy more than two decades ago, only our current President, fulfilling a promise other presidents have made but broken, had the courage to act. Anti-Semitism and terrorist threats must never deter us from standing up for our principles, including a free and independent Israel with Jerusalem as its capital. In fact, standing up for our principles and supporting our allies is essential to creating peace and stability in the region.” – Congressman Scott DesJarlais (TN-04)“As this resolution memorializes, the relocation of United States Embassy in Jerusalem is further proof that President Trump is keeping his promises to the American people. Seventy years after the official formation of Israel and more than 20 years after the United States Congress voted to recognize Jerusalem as its capital, this fulfilled promise signals strong support for our friend and ally.” – Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26)“I am honored to join my colleagues in recognizing the one-year anniversary of the United States moving our embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem—the eternal capital. This strong and historic move will forever stand as a message to the rest of the world that the U.S. stands with our Jewish brothers and sisters in the world’s only Jewish state.” – Congressman Tedd Budd (NC-13)“On the one year anniversary, I applaud President Donald Trump for fulfilling his campaign pledge to recognize Jerusalem as the rightful capital of Israel. Under the leadership of President Trump, our relationship with Israel has never been stronger. We must never forget the important role Israel plays in the world and I will continue to be a vocal supporter of our eternal friendship.” – Rep. Alex X. Mooney (WV-02)“President Trump’s decision, one year ago, to recognize Jerusalem for what it actually has been and is –the actual capital of Israel, demonstrated great commitment to truth. President Truman had the courage to recognize Israel as an independent nation only minutes after it formed. Since then, we have had eleven Presidents who discussed Jerusalem as the true capital of Israel, but did not recognize it formally. A year ago, our president kept another of his promises made to the American people. This historic decision displayed to the world that the United States will fervently stand with its ally, Israel. I am proud we have a President who courageously did the right thing for the United States, for our ally Israel, and for the world, including those parts that do not know it.” – Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01)“Let today be a world-wide reminder that America stands with Israel, our greatest ally. We recognize that Jerusalem is Israel’s rightful and eternal capital–and shall no longer be questioned.” – Congressman Ralph Norman (SC-05)“The city of Jerusalem holds a special place in the history of civilization and in the hearts of the people of Israel. By recognizing it as the capital of Israel, President Trump reaffirmed our commitment to a steadfast ally and carried out a law passed overwhelmingly by Congress in 1995. On the first anniversary of this important event, I am proud to join my colleagues in celebrating the ties that continue to join the United States and the State of Israel in friendship.” – Congressman Morgan Griffith (VA-09)“Israel, our strong ally, has the right to determine its capital city. Our president chose to honor their choice by moving the US embassy to Jerusalem, the historic home of the Jewish people. One year after the president’s announcement that we would relocate our embassy, I join my colleagues applauding this historic move and urge other nations to follow the United States’ example.” – Congressman Dave Brat (VA-07)“One year ago, President Donald Trump made a historic announcement to recognize Jerusalem as Israel’s capital and to relocate our embassy there. I applaud President Trump for standing up for one of our closest allies. This recognition is based on ancient history and current political realities, and we must continue to voice that Jerusalem belongs to the people of Israel.” – Congresswoman Debbie Lesko (AZ-08)“America and Israel’s unbreakable bond has been cemented through decades of trust, respect, and mutual cooperation. President Trump’s public recognition of Jerusalem as Israel’s eternal capital, and his decision to relocate the US Embassy to Jerusalem, were historic moments for US-Israel relations, now and in the future. I am proud to stand with Israel, and to be a cosponsor of Congressman Biggs’ important resolution.” – Congressman Matt Gaetz (FL-01)“A year after recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, we are seeing good progress in the Middle East. It is encouraging to see a number of other countries follow our example in relocating their embassies to the one, true capital of Israel – Jerusalem. Though there are still challenges to overcome, we will continue standing by our greatest ally. I’m delighted to celebrate this milestone with my colleagues and with the great people of Israel.” – Congressman Randy Weber (TX-14)“I am excited to be a part of the one year anniversary of Jerusalem’s recognition in Israel. The Administration’s step to recognize Jerusalem as the capitol of the State of Israel and spiritual home for the Jewish people helped further our friendship with Israel, the only democracy in the Middle East. Congress has voted favorably many times in the past on this issue, and past Presidents have campaigned on this only to backtrack in office for fear of angering Palestinian and Arab communities. This year marks the continuance of my strong support on this issue.” – Congressman David Schweikert (AZ-06)“Israel is our strongest friend and ally in the Middle East. This time last year, President Trump properly recognized Jerusalem as its capital and showed the world that the United States will always stand with her people,” said Rep. Williams. “For this reason I am proud to cosponsor Rep. Andy Biggs’ resolution, Commemorating the Anniversary of President Trump’s Recognition of Jerusalem as the Capital of Israel. I commend the President for his unwavering support of Israel and for remaining dedicated to backing our allies.” – Congressman Roger Williams (TX-25)“All in one year, President Trump made the historic announcement to recognize Jerusalem as Israel’s rightful capital, and the State Department moved the U.S. Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. These actions were long overdue and exemplify the strong devotion and commitment the Trump Administration and the nation have to Israel. I am thankful to be working hand in hand with President Trump as we both stand wholeheartedly with Israel, our great ally and friend.” – Congressman Jeff Duncan (SC-03) “One year after President Trump publicly recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, and soon after moved the U.S. embassy there, the United States remains committed to supporting the State of Israel. I applaud this administration in their decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, and the eternal friendship between our countries remains strong.” – Congressman Andy Harris (MD-01)“One year ago, President Trump issued a proclamation to officially recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. With Israel’s legislature, Supreme Court, President’s office, and Prime Minister‘s office all being located in the city, Jerusalem is the epicenter of governance in the country. Congress has repeatedly voted to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, despite previous administrations - both Republican and Democratic - failing to deliver. This proclamation, which also relocates our embassy to Jerusalem, is yet another promise that President Trump has fulfilled. As the Co-Chair of the Congressional Israel Victory Caucus, I firmly believe that by moving the United States Embassy to Jerusalem and recognizing it as Israel’s capital, we are sending a strong message of America’s support for our great ally - asserting the belief that Israel is the nation state of the Jewish people, and that Israel has the undeniable right to exist and defend herself.” – Congressman Bill Johnson (OH-06)“I was incredibly pleased when President Trump announced the United States’ official recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. As the eternal capital of the Jewish people, this was a long-overdue and necessary action to demonstrate America’s unwavering support on behalf of our strongest ally in the Middle East. I look forward to the ongoing progress we will make to advance the important partnership and longstanding bond between our nations.” – Congressman John Ratcliffe (TX-04)“It is the diplomatic right of any sovereign nation to choose where their capital is located; and, for 67 years, Israel has recognized Jerusalem as their capital,” said Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA). “I applaud President Trump for moving the U.S. Embassy in Tel Aviv to Jerusalem a year ago, and my good friend Rep. Andy Biggs for commemorating this seismic event between the United States and Israel.” – Congressman Barry Loudermilk (GA-11)“America’s relationship with Israel is unique, and it’s strength is the foundation of American leadership in the Middle East. One year ago, President Donald Trump announced that our embassy was to be relocated to Jerusalem, and I was grateful for the opportunity to lead the House delegation to the embassy’s opening in May. The President’s commitment to Promises Made, Promises Kept strengthens our bond with the people of Israel, who know they have an ally in America.” – Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02)“Israel has long been a friend and an ally to the United States, and it is a priority of mine to continue to stand with them and fortify our bonds. One year ago that bond was strengthened when the President did the right thing by affirming U.S. Law and recognizing Jerusalem as the eternal and undivided capital of Israel.” – Congressman Don Bacon (NE-02)“We have a special partnership with Israel -- the country is our greatest ally in the Middle East and the only democracy in the region. We share the same values regarding individual rights and liberties, and it is essential we stand by them. I am grateful for President Trump’s leadership on this important issue and that he made the move to affirm Jerusalem as Israel’s rightful capital one year ago.” – Congresswoman Vicky Hartzler (MO-04)“It has been a year since President Trump fulfilled his pledge to move the United States embassy to Jerusalem. This long-overdue action demonstrates the close friendship between the United States and its strongest ally in the region. I know President Trump will continue to strengthen our bond with Israel after neglect from previous Administrations.” – Congressman Todd Rokita (IN-04)“One year ago, President Trump announced that the Unites States officially recognized the city of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. Israel has long been our closest ally in the Middle East, and it was a great honor to witness the historic – and long overdue – opening of the American Embassy in the holy city of Jerusalem just a few months later. Today, I’m proud to celebrate the anniversary of this recognition, and I look forward to continuing to strengthen the enduring ties between our two nations.” – Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) ###
11.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Following Congressman Tom Emmer's (MN-06) letter to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) calling for action, and eleven months after the congressional deadline, yesterday the agency outlined how states like Minnesota can utilize 1115 waivers to increase access to mental health treatment. Specifically, in a letter to State Medicaid Directors, CMS provided information on how to navigate an outdated federal law, called the Institutions for Mental Diseases (IMD) exclusion, to ensure those suffering from mental illness receive the inpatient care they need. “This is a positive step forward not just for Minnesotans, but for every American who suffers from mental illness and their loved ones,” said Congressman Emmer. “While there remains a severe shortage of mental health treatment across the nation, this long overdue guidance will allow states to navigate the outdated IMD exclusion law, a key contributor to that shortage. I am glad to see CMS take action following our letter and look forward to continue ensuring those who need care can get it.” Through section 12003 of the 21st Century Cures Act which was signed into law in 2016, Congress required CMS to issue guidance for states in utilizing 1115 waivers to increase access to mental illness treatment. These waivers inform states on how they can redesign their mental health treatment systems and provide beneficiaries treatment in IMDs. Since 1965, the IMD exclusion law has significantly blocked access to treatment for those with substance use disorder or mental illness. Specifically, the federal government will not pay for their treatment services in facilities with more than 16 beds.Read Emmer's letter to CMS here and their response here. Read CMS guidance to states here. ###
11.07.2018	American farmers need the Cuban market By Reps. Tom Emmer, Rick Crawford and Roger Marshall November 6, 2018 Farmers across the country are worried. Net farm income this year has hit a 12-year low and is expected to drop nearly 20 percent overall. With falling domestic demand, higher production prices, and competition from foreign producers already hurting our farmers, retaliatory tariffs on U.S. farm exports by China, the EU, Canada, Mexico and Turkey are an added weight on the shoulders of our growers and producers. American farmers are tough patriots, but they need strong export revenues to stay in business. Building new export outlets for American farmers and allied industries has become an imperative, and Cuba should be part of that mix. The list of farm sectors reeling from punitive foreign tariffs is long and getting longer. In soybeans, for example, nearly $14 billion worth of exports to China -- or roughly one third of total US soybean production in 2017 -- will be impacted by China’s new tariffs. In dairy, retaliatory tariffs will cost our farmers $1.5 billion this year and another $3 billion in 2019. In pork, almost half of all U.S. exports are being impacted by tariffs. This is not just a near-term concern. Once foreign market share is lost, reclaiming those sales is an uphill fight. The positive reactions out of American agriculture to the new North American trade deal is testament to the urgent need for U.S. agribusiness outlets. In the case of Cuba, however, which offers an important growth opportunity just 90 miles away and an overnight voyage for shipping containers from U.S. Gulf and East Coast ports, a different solution is needed. Cuba is one of only a very few foreign markets where the potential for U.S. agricultural growth is quantifiable and achievable. That island spends $2 billion a year on agricultural imports to feed its 11 million people and 3 million annual tourists. Most of its imports are from Vietnam, China, the European Union, and other faraway locations, where freight rates are many times higher than ours. Arkansas for instance is the No. 1 U.S. rice exporter, and Cuba has the highest per capita rice consumption in the Western Hemisphere. However, since FY2009, Cuba has not imported any significant quantity of rice from the U.S. The U.S. held nearly 40 percent of market share in FY2004, but it has been lost to Vietnam and Brazil, who offer credit to Cuba. Likewise, soybeans are also a top export item for states like Arkansas and others and with recent trade disputes, it is important to diversify our trading partners. Of Cuba’s nearly $2 billion in agricultural imports, 13 percent are soybean products. In Minnesota, U.S. soy exports could mean combined sales of up to $14 million, corn sales could reach up to $16 million; dairy has potential of $4.3 million. Similarly, many of Kansas’ top agricultural products are staple imports for Cuba. Kansas exports over $800 million annually in wheat, but there is virtually no wheat trade between Kansas and Cuba. Cuba would readily buy our high-quality agricultural products were it not for our outdated financing rules on U.S. farm sales to Cuba. While the farm bill amendment allowing market promotion monies to be spent in Cuba is a step in the right direction, to position American farmers as the No. 1 agricultural supplier to Cuba, we need legislation allowing private credit and financing in agricultural sales to that market. Now more than ever, when simple fixes like this could help our farmers make export strides in our own backyard over Vietnam, China, and other distant locations that compete with our farm community, we should quickly make them happen. The savings represented by this fix -- $690 million over 10 years according to the Congressional Budget Office -- is all the more reason to get this done now. For lasting export growth for American farmers, we should also advance efforts to provide reciprocal bilateral trade improvements that help foster a more stable, mutually beneficial US-Cuba trading relationship. As China and other U.S. export markets are redefined, our country no longer has the luxury of shunning meaningful agribusiness markets located right under our nose. Expanded access for U.S. agriculture into Cuba and other new outlets has become nothing less than a matter of economic health, if not survival, for rural America.Crawford represents Arkansas’s 1st District and is chairman of the Agriculture Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management. Marshall represents Kansas’ 1st District and is a member of the Agriculture Committee. Emmer represents Minnesota’s 6th District. All three are members of the Congressional Cuba Working Group. -- This article first appeared in The Hill. ###
10.16.2018	Working Together WorksBy Tom EmmerOctober 15, 2018 As we enter the home stretch of another election, which we are told “could be the most important election of our lifetime,” we reflect on what has been, when we should be talking about big ideas for our future. Unfortunately, American politics continues to devolve into sound bites, dark and unflattering pictures, outrageous allegations and campaign smear. When we seek the positive, we are told instead that negative works. Really? It’s not OK if I disagree? When I ran for Congress, I promised to bring our Midwest values to Washington. As I engage in our uniquely American election process, I constantly reflect on my and my team’s performance to date. Have we been working on solutions to the biggest problems facing America’s future? As far as my promise to take our values to Washington, I know our team does that each day. The majority of Minnesotans, regardless of political perspective, do not appreciate smash-mouth politics. Minnesotans are better than that; Minnesotans deserve better than that. Minnesotans appreciate thoughtfulness, respect for one another, teamwork, understanding and, of course, a good hotdish. (I realize some believe winning this year’s Minnesota Congressional Delegation Hotdish Competition is our most impressive accomplishment to date.) No matter on which side of the aisle, I have the utmost respect for my colleagues in Congress, especially those in our Minnesota delegation. After all, we share the same grueling schedules, we all deal with daily criticisms from those with whom we disagree (or are just plain disagreeable) and, ultimately, we all want the same things: a strong economy, safe communities, good schools, clean air and water, and a better future for the next generation of Americans. We really only differ on how to get there. Politics, like life in general, is all about relationships. That is why, since I was first elected to Congress, I have made it a priority to get to know my colleagues as people — their likes and dislikes, what they want to accomplish and what motivates them. In a time of incredible divisiveness and jumping to conclusions about a person’s character, building relationships with Democrat and Republican members is paramount. What’s more, those relationships have generated some incredible (and often, nonpartisan) legislation that all Americans can support: the Abby Honold Act, the Stemming the Tide of Rural Economic Stress and Suicide (STRESS) Act, the National Suicide Hotline Improvement Act and the Keeping Capital Local for Underserved Communities Act. The people I work for — that’s you — sent me to Washington to solve problems, not identify them. Minnesotans are tired of the divisive and childish bickering. They expect us to offer and support policies that make their lives, and their children’s lives, better and create more opportunity for everyone. As our nation continues forward, we need to get back to debating big ideas again. We have to stop the “us vs. them” approach and remember that we are all in this together. If we are going to be successful, we are going to have to work together, lead together and show the rest of the country how Minnesotans from all walks of life can (and do!) live well together. Tom Emmer, a Republican, represents Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District. -- This piece originally appeared online in the Star Tribune. ###
10.15.2018	A new era in transportation for the northwest metro was heralded when a host of dignitaries broke ground for an Interstate 94 expansion project Friday, Oct. 12, in Albertville.The project will add a third lane in each direction from St. Michael to Albertville.... Congressman Emmer added that transportation “is one of the most important issues in this community. It’s incredibly important to get three lanes all the way to St. Cloud.” Not only did Commissioner Zelle agree with Emmer, but he made a big announcement: “We are paving from Monticello to Clearwater and during construction, we’ll make an additional lane a permanent lane. It’s official!” Photo Credit: Aaron Bronrn. ...The Minnesota Department of Transportation announced that this project will be included in the Corridors of Commerce funding. The project will receive the full $56 million necessary to complete the lane capacity expansion.The coalition’s goal is to “Unleash the Mobility” with lane capacity expansion by providing an additional travel lane to I-94 in each direction from Maple Grove to St. Cloud, as well as the addition of auxiliary lanes to the Brockton Lane Interchange at the Rogers/Dayton border. --- CLICK HERE to read the full editorial online. ###
10.10.2018	WASHINGTON– U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar and Representative Tom Emmer’s legislation to rename the federal courthouse in Minneapolis after Judge Diana Murphy, the first woman to serve on the Eighth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, has passed in both the Senate and House of Representatives. The bill now heads to the President’s desk to be signed into law. Judge Murphy spent 38 years as a federal judge, including five years as the chair of the U.S. Sentencing Commission. She began serving on the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota in 1980 and served as Chief Judge from 1992 to 1994, when she was appointed to the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals. Judge Murphy served as the first and only woman on that federal appellate bench until 2013. Judge Murphy passed away earlier this year. “Judge Diana Murphy was the first woman to serve on the Eighth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, and she was a tireless advocate for putting more women on the bench,” Klobuchar said. “Judge Murphy stood up for others and she did it with humor, joy and awe-inspiring achievement. She was a mentor and a friend, and this is a fitting tribute to a legal trailblazer.” “Judge Diana E. Murphy, the only woman to serve on the Eighth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for nearly two decades, was a trailblazer with an incredible career in public service,” Emmer said. “While dozens of courthouses in our state bear the names of impactful Minnesotans, the Minneapolis federal courthouse does not. Renaming it in Judge Murphy’s honor would serve as a fitting tribute to her impressive legacy.” ###
10.03.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Blockchain industry groups are voicing their support for Congressman Tom Emmer's (MN-06) trio of bills to support these new and promising technologies. Specifically, the legislation expresses support for the industry and development of blockchain and digital asset technologies in the United States; provides regulatory clarity to entities that never take control of consumer funds; and establishes a safe harbor for taxpayers with “forked” digital assets. Emmer was also recently selected as a Co-Chair of the Congressional Blockchain Caucus. WHAT THEY'RE SAYING: “As the impact of blockchain continues to expand across many industries, public-private collaboration on how to harness the benefits of this technology is more important than ever. The U.S. Chamber looks forward to partnering with lawmakers to help educate and convene stakeholders on the growing uses of blockchain. Legislative solutions like the recent bills introduced by Congressman Emmer are critical to this effort. We are pleased to work with co-chairs Emmer and Foster, and the entire Blockchain Caucus on the important work ahead.” - Tim Day, Senior Vice President, Chamber Technology Engagement Center (CTEC), and Tom Quaadman, Executive Vice President, Center for Capital Markets Competitiveness at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “The Blockchain Association was launched to work with policymakers to push for an informed and responsive regulatory environment. We applaud Rep. Emmer for his leadership. He understands that the token economy needs light-touch regulation and regulatory clarity in order to promote innovation and protect consumers.” - Kristin Smith, Director of External Affairs, Blockchain Association “Blockchain has the potential to profoundly impact digital transactions. Congressman Emmer is a leader in understanding and anticipating the potential for this transformative technology, most recently through his support for blockchain broadly and his efforts to clarify some of the salient issues facing the blockchain industry. We look forward to continuing our work with him and to the visionary approach he brings in support of the growth of the blockchain ecosystem.” - Amy Davine Kim, Chief Policy Officer, Chamber of Digital Commerce “We are excited for the leadership and perspective that Rep. Emmer will bring to the already dynamic Congressional Blockchain Caucus. The bills he introduced will ensure that American developers and entrepreneurs continue to lead the way as public blockchain networks fulfill the still-outstanding promises of the internet revolution.” - Jerry Brito, Executive Director, Coin Center “Representative Emmer's pioneering work represents a recognition of the growth and potential of digital currencies and blockchain technology. It is encouraging to see such significant efforts on a national level that will ensure the U.S. creates an environment for driving innovation. We are in a new era of technological growth and significant policies like these will play an imperative part in the success of blockchain. GBBC remains committed to helping all leaders understand blockchain’s complexities and potential as it develops.” - Sandra Ro, CEO, Global Blockchain Business Council. “ConsenSys deeply appreciates the work of Congressman Emmer and his colleagues to bring clarity through sensible regulation and policy that promotes the responsible adoption and growth of blockchain technology and virtual assets. These efforts are vital initial steps in making sure organizations like ConsenSys, and the technology we build upon, can succeed in our mission of creating benefit for consumers here in the United States of America. Our technology presents a new paradigm that does not always fit neatly into existing regulation. Smart policy and regulation, such as these efforts put forth by Congressman Emmer, are a key component to progress.” - Joseph Lubin, Founder, ConsenSys “Countries abroad are aggressively adopting digital assets and blockchain technologies to enable the next generation of finance. The leadership in these bills and the work of the Congressional Blockchain Caucus are important steps forward to ensuring the U.S. remains a global leader in these critical technologies.” - Brad Garlinghouse, CEO, Ripple CLICK HERE to learn more about Emmer's legislation. CLICK HERE to learn more about the Congressional Blockchain Caucus. ###
10.02.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Today Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced that the Bureau of Justice Assistance, under the U.S. Department of Justice, has awarded the Wright County Drug Court Program $498,716 to continue to provide rehabilitation services for Minnesotans struggling with substance use disorder. In an attempt to reduce recidivism and rehabilitate high risk chemically dependent adults, this grant will support the close monitoring of these individuals, through a collaboration by the judicial, medical and corrections facilities. “We cannot arrest our way out of our nation’s ongoing drug crisis,” said Congressman Emmer. “This grant provides the treatment Minnesotans need. I will continue to support similar efforts to rehabilitate and restore our communities rather than incarcerate them." In June, Congressman Emmer wrote a letter to the Bureau of Justice Assistance in support of Wright County’s Drug Program. Read the letter here. Read more about the Bureau of Justice Assistance Enhancement Grant here. ###
10.01.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) introduced the Trailer and Camper Technical Corrections Act to provide consistency and clarity for recreational vehicle (RV) and camper dealers, their employees and consumers. While the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act made many important changes to the way businesses can deduct interest and depreciate expenses through clearer definitions and guidelines, towable RVs and campers were inadvertently excluded from the definition of Motor Vehicle, preventing dealers and retailers from obtaining critical financing when purchasing new inventory of RVs. "As the law is currently written, our RV dealers do not have the clarity and consistency they need, putting them at an unnecessary competitive disadvantage," said Congressman Emmer. "Since RV ownership continues to climb in Minnesota and across the country, it is imperative for Congress to immediately correct this oversight in the new tax law by passing this common sense legislation." Currently, all 50 states define and regulate towable RVs and campers as Motor Vehicles. Through a small, technical fix, Emmer's bill ensures that motorized and non-motorized campers and travel trailers are treated the same under the U.S. tax code. CLICK HERE to read the full text of the bill. Additional Background: Minnesota is home to over 400 RV businesses and 85 RV dealerships, employing over 3,400 Minnestoans. In Minnesota, the RV industry has an economic output of $969.7 million. A record high of approximately 10 million households in the United States own an RV. ###
09.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Today Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06), who was just named a co-chair of the Congressional Blockchain Caucus, announced he will introduce three groundbreaking bills to support blockchain technology and digital currencies. Specifically, the legislation expresses support for the industry and development of these promising technologies in the United States, provides clarity to entities that never take control of consumer funds, and establishes a safe harbor for taxpayers with “forked” digital assets. “The United States should prioritize accelerating the development of blockchain technology and create an environment that enables the American private sector to lead on innovation and further growth, which is why I am introducing these bills,” said Congressman Emmer. “Legislators should be embracing emerging technologies and providing a clear regulatory system that allows them to flourish in the United States.” About the bills: Resolution Supporting Digital Currencies and Blockchain TechnologyExpresses support for the industry and its development in the United States. Like the internet, the federal government should provide a light touch, consistent, and simple legal environment. Read more here. Blockchain Regulatory Certainty ActAffirms that certain blockchain related entities that never take control of consumer funds do not need to register as a money transmitter. Examples of these entities include "miners" that validate network integrity and multisignature providers that provide enhanced asset security to users. Read more here. Safe Harbor for Taxpayers with Forked Assets Act Taxpayers can only comply with the law when the law is clear. This bill will provide a safe harbor for taxpayers with "forked" digital assets. Further it will restrict fines against individuals that attempt to report these assets until the IRS provides any type of guidance regarding the appropriate means of reporting them. Read more here. ###
09.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Today Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) and Congressman Bill Foster (IL-11) were announced as co-chairmen of the Congressional Blockchain Caucus. They join Congressman Jared Polis (CO-02) and Congressman David Schweikert (AZ-06) as leaders of the Caucus. “This is an exciting time for blockchain technology and cryptocurrencies, and I look forward to taking on this new leadership role,” said Congressman Emmer. “The Caucus is a platform for industry and government to come together to study and understand the implications of these new technologies. Together we plan to help fill in the gaps when it comes to fully understanding these new technological advancements in order for Congress to embrace and support all they have to offer the next generation and beyond.” “Blockchain is a disruptive technology that will change the way we do business in almost every sector. As the incoming Democratic co-chair of the Blockchain Caucus, I am proud to join my colleagues to lead Congress so that policymakers and industry can work together to realize this promise and unleash its economic potential in the United States and around the world,” said Congressman Foster. “I am thrilled to have my colleagues Reps. Tom Emmer and Bill Foster join myself and Rep. Jared Polis as co-chairs of the Congressional Blockchain Caucus. Reps. Emmer and Foster are already leaders in this space on the Financial Services Committee, which makes their addition essential in helping grow the Blockchain Caucus towards its future goals,” said Congressman Schweikert. “Welcome to Representative Foster and Representative Emmer, as co-chairs of the Blockchain Caucus. I’m so pleased we are able to continue the tradition of having bipartisan co-chairs,” said Congressman Polis. “A lot has developed since I founded the Blockchain Caucus in 2016. The Blockchain Caucus continues to evolve and be used in so many new ways. It has the potential to reshape everything from cryptocurrencies to supply chains to banking to property titling - decentralizing cybersecurity and revolutionizing many industries. What an exciting time to move forward!” The Congressional Blockchain Caucus was founded in the 114th Congress and is enjoying significant growth and an ever-expanding focus. This bi-partisan group believes in the future of blockchain technology, and understand that Congress has a role to play in its development. The Caucus believes in a hands-off regulatory approach to allow this technology to evolve the same way the internet did; on its own. Learn more about the Caucus here. ###
09.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - National Farmers Union (NFU) recognized Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) with the Golden Triangle Award, the family farm organization’s highest legislative honor, for his leadership and support at the federal policymaking level for family farmers, ranchers and their rural communities. Congressman Emmer receives the Golden Triangle Award from NFU President Roger Johnson and other NFU members in Washington, D.C. “I am honored to be recognized by the National Farmers Union but even more so to work with them on behalf of Minnesota's farmers and ranchers. I am especially appreciative for their support of the STRESS Act to end farmers' mental health crisis, ” said Congressman Emmer. “The Golden Triangle Award recognizes farm and food champions in Congress that display outstanding leadership on the issues that are important to both our industry and our organization. We’re appreciative of their insight and devotion to securing the nation’s food supply for the good of both American family farmers and consumers,” said NFU President Roger Johnson. The Golden Triangle, first presented in 1988, symbolizes the core principles of the Farmers Union organization: education, cooperation, and legislation. This year’s Golden Triangle honorees were selected for their leadership and dedication to improving the livelihoods of family farmers and ranchers. Learn more about Congressman Emmer's STRESS Act here. ###
09.13.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) took to the House floor to announce the recipients from Minnesota's law enforcement who are receiving the FBI Director's Award for Excellence for their enduring work on the disappearance of Jacob Wetterling: Stearns County Deputy/Investigator Dennis Kern, Former Captain Pam Jensen, Retired Bureau of Criminal Apprehension Agent Ken McDonald, Federal Bureau of Investigation Special Agent Shane Ball, and; Federal Bureau of Investigation Special Agent Chris Boeckers. Watch Congressman Emmer speak on the House floor here: Click here to watch. Full transcript: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor five incredible members Minnesota’s law enforcement, each of whom are deservedly receiving the “FBI Director's Award for Excellence”: Stearns County Deputy/Investigator Dennis Kern, former Captain Pam Jensen, retired Bureau of Criminal Apprehension Agent Ken McDonald, and Federal Bureau of Investigation Special Agents Shane Ball and Chris Boeckers. 29 years ago, on October 22nd, 11 year old Jacob Wetterling disappeared. Minnesota was left in shock and horror. Our state hoped and prayed for decades that Jacob would return home. Though unable to change the tragic outcome of Jacob’s life, Deputy Kern, Captain Jensen, Agent McDonald, Agent Ball and Agent Boeckers were able to offer some peace and comfort by apprehending Jacob’s murderer. Mr. Speaker, words cannot adequately express the gratitude that the Wetterling family and all Minnesotans have for the law enforcement who never stopped searching for Jacob, who never gave up. To Deputy Kern, Captain Jensen, Agent McDonald, Agent Ball and Agent Boeckers, on behalf of all Minnesotans: Thank you and God bless you I yield back.” ###
09.11.2018	Washington, D.C.- Today Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) was honored by the National Taxpayers Union (NTU) for having one of the strongest voting records in Congress for supporting lower taxes, limited government, and economic freedom. “I am honored to be recognized by the National Taxpayers Union,” said Congressman Emmer. “Hardworking Minnesotans maintain a budget, spending within their means while taking good care of their families. Our government should follow their example and do the same.” “Only lawmakers with a voting record that is the best-of-the-best will earn NTU’s Taxpayers’ Friend Award,” said Pete Sepp, President of NTU. “Congressman Emmer has demonstrated a tireless commitment to supporting taxpayers’ interests in Washington, and a dedication to solving the government’s tax-and-spend problems with action rather than just words. Fixing America’s budget problems takes hard work, and Congressman Emmer has been doing that work every single day." This year Congressman Emmer scored 86 percent on the National Taxpayers Union’s rating scale compared to the House average of just 51 percent. NTU’s rating is calculated by evaluating every vote that has an impact on tax, spending, trade, and regulatory policy. See NTU’s full 2017 congressional scorecard and further analysis here. ###
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Following the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) announcement to cancel the Obama administration's political mineral withdrawal in the Superior National Forest, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement: “The Department of Agriculture's move today to cancel the federal withdrawal is a major victory for Minnesota. My MINER Act demonstrated the strong bipartisan support that exists for unleashing our state's full mining potential. Despite arguments that Washington should make these decisions for us, now, Minnesota's mineral rights are finally restored back to the people of our great state. I am grateful to the President, Secretary Zinke, Secretary Purdue and the entire administration for their support in our efforts to fully restore Minnesota's right to explore.” Background: During the last days of his administration, President Obama threatened more than 425,000 acres of land with a prohibition on development, potentially instating a 20-year ban on industry activity, including up to two-years for a temporary study. This unchecked move by the former administration decimated local economies, specifically a projected loss of nearly 17,000 jobs and billions of dollars of revenue. In October 2017, Congressman Emmer introduced Minnesota’s Economic Rights (MINER) in the Superior National Forest Act to restore Minnesota's right to explore and, if environmentally appropriate, mine valuable precious metals. The House passed Emmer's MINER Act in November 2017 followed closely by action from the Department of Interior to renew the mineral leases in the area. In June 2018, President Trump's announced his commitment to ending the two-year study and fully restoring Minnesota's right to explore during his visit to Duluth. ###
09.05.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Today Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has awarded CentraCare Health in St. Cloud, MN a grant of $324,290 to provide telehealth services for Minnesotans in rural areas. Specifically this grant will support implementation and evaluation of broad telehealth networks to deliver 24-hour Emergency Department (ED) consultation services via telehealth to rural providers. “This grant will help make behavioral health care services more available for Minnesotans living in the Sixth Congressional District,” said Congressman Emmer. “I look forward to more opportunities to expand telehealth services across rural Minnesota.” “This is a great opportunity to deliver innovative mental health services in areas not possible before. We look forward to applying telehealth technologies so that integrated, patient-centered behavioral health services are available in our larger service area,” said Rachael Lesch, RN, BSN, MBA, Senior Director of Population Health and Virtual Health at CentraCare. ###
07.31.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded St. Cloud Regional Airport a grant of $1,242,179 for the construction of a 1,600 foot taxiway to provide access to aircraft hangars. Due to growing demand, St. Cloud Regional Airport is quickly running out of hangar space. This grant would provide for infrastructure construction that would support additional development of the airport. “This grant award will help St. Cloud Regional Airport begin construction for additional taxiways,” said Congressman Emmer. “Investments in local infrastructure help our local economy by providing jobs and this investment will help Minnesotans in the Sixth Congressional District by expanding and developing a more efficient airport in the community.” “We greatly appreciate the help of our congressional delegation in acquiring this needed funding for our airport,” said the Mayor of St. Cloud, Dave Kleis. “There is a demand for private hangars on the airport and this will allow for that development, which will help increase future aeronautical revenue at the airport.” ###
07.24.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed and Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) voted for and supported as a cosponsor, the National Suicide Hotline Improvement Act (H.R. 2345). This bipartisan bill instructs the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) to study the designation of a 3-digit dialing code, similar to 9-1-1, for a suicide prevention and mental health crisis hotline system. “Our nation is in the midst of a suicide crisis and Minnesota is no exception, especially in light of the state's crisis hotline recently being shut down,” said Congressman Emmer. “As the second leading cause of death in our state for young Minnesotans, suicide is quite literally killing the next generation. Today, the House is sounding the alarm by ensuring the national hotline is always available to and convenient for those who are suffering. I thank my colleague Rep. Chris Stewart for his leadership on this effort am proud to join as a cosponsor for the National Suicide Hotline Improvement Act.” H.R. 2345 specifically instructs the FCC and SAMHSA to perform a cost and benefit analysis of using a three-digit dialing code for a national suicide prevention and mental health crisis hotline. It also asks them to recommend the best number for this purpose. Finally, the study will examine the overall effectiveness of the current National Suicide Prevention Lifeline and the Veterans Crisis Line and recommend ways to improve the existing system. “This is just one step towards helping turn the tide on America's suicide crisis, but every step counts,” said Emmer. “I look forward to leaders on every level, local, state and federal, coming together to provide care before crisis.” Suicide statistics provided by the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention. Click here. IF YOU OR SOMEONE YOU KNOW IS HAVING THOUGHTS ABOUT SUICIDE, PLEASE CALL THE NATIONAL SUICIDE PREVENTION LIFELINE, AVAILABLE 24/7: 1-800-273-8255. ###
07.20.2018	“We are getting Washington out of the lives and off the backs of thousands of hardworking Minnesotans” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) gave a speech on the House floor in celebration of overcoming the final hurdle to restoring Minnesota's mineral rights. The restoration of Minnesota's mineral rights followed the President's pledge to rescind a federal mineral withdrawal of National Forest System lands in Superior National Forest, put in place by the Obama administration in its final days. Watch Congressman Emmer's opening statement here and closing statement here. Full transcript: Mr. Chairman – I rise to offer an amendment - which I am pleased to say that I intend to withdraw - following months of hard work in this Chamber and with the Administration. Minnesota is home to the Iron Range, which boasts an abundance of natural resources and critical minerals. When it comes to protecting the environment while developing our economic assets, nobody does it better than Minnesota. That’s why it was especially disturbing when the Obama Administration - ON ITS VERY LAST DAY IN OFFICE - proposed to withdrawal over 240,000 acres of land in my state from mineral exploration and development. It was communicated as a step to protect the environment, when in reality, it was Washington telling Minnesotans how to treat Minnesota. This last minute action threatens thousands of jobs, billions of dollars in state revenue and school trust funding, and handicaps our national security by increasing our reliance on foreign sources of minerals. That is why I offered this amendment to stop this unfounded action. This amendment is identical to one that was unanimously adopted by this chamber last year, and is wholly consistent with legislation I introduced - and the House passed - by a strong, bipartisan vote in November. What’s more, this amendment echoes the good news that was delivered by the President to thousands of Minnesotans on June 20th when he explicitly expressed his intent to rescind this arbitrary withdrawal. Minnesotans are experts when it comes to mining in a responsible, environmentally cautious fashion. This amendment simply removes an unnecessary layer of bureaucracy and restores this control to my home state of Minnesota. -- I thank the Chairman for his work and continued support on this issue. To make a few closing points: Nothing about this amendment would allow for mining in the Boundary Waters. Period. In fact, to demonstrate the disconnect and level of misinformation on this issue, my colleagues who stand in opposition to this amendment worked to have report language accompany this bill which incorrectly calls attention to a “proposal to withdraw lands WITHIN the…Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness from mineral and geothermal leasing laws,” despite the fact that there is no such proposal and it remains unlawful to mine within the Boundary Waters. Nothing about this amendment eliminates any existing environmental protections. This amendment reinforces the common sense reality that economic growth and environmental protection do not have to be mutually exclusive. I am pleased to have the support of the House on this very important issue during the 115th Congress I am pleased to have the pledged support and continued commitment from the Administration. And I am pleased that we will soon be able to get Washington out of the lives and off the backs of thousands of hardworking Minnesotans. -- For additional background, click here. ###
07.17.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Today Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) joined Joe Gill on KASM Radio Network to weigh in on the ongoing trade disputes between the United States and China, as well as give an update on the status of this year's Farm Bill. On the current state of global trade and tariffs: I am concerned. The good news is in the first quarter of this year exports out of Minnesota were up 9%. But if you want to know how important trade is to Minnesota, look at the fact that trade with Mexico, one of our top three trade partners, was down by 13%. So exports were up 9% total, but was down 13% with one of our top three direct trading partners. Why? Well, NAFTA has created a bit of a strain. And now you’ve got China retaliating... Our great soybean producers in Minnesota exported $28 billion worth of soybeans last year, and $14 billion of those exports went to China... I am very concerned, Joe. On the administration's actions against China: The Trump administration is trying to level the playing field... We want to freely trade but it has to be fair on both sides. In the meantime, the Chinese are not stupid, they are targeting ten states that Donald Trump won last election. Look, the administration doesn’t call it a 'trade war,' they call it 'multiple trade disputes.' I don’t care what you call it, it is very concerning... The administration has got to walk a very fine line and Congress will be weighing in. It's important to have fair and reciprocal trade, we do not dispute that, but you need producers to produce these commodities when this whole thing is done, so we are encouraging the administration to get this finished very quickly. On if the trade disputes continue and the future of farming: Well, the United States has the greater leverage, but we're talking about farm communities with farmers who are 55-65 years old. How long are they going to stay in, Joe? If this continues a lot of those folks will say, “It has been a good run, but we’re going to cash out.” Then you’ve got the young people who you’re trying to bring into our farming community, because we have not only sustain the industry but to grow it. How can they survive? On the 2018 Farm Bill: There will be a motion to go to conference before the end of this week, and they will work on it post haste. My colleague from Minnesota’s Seventh District, Collin Peterson, has started to talk again with Chairman [of the House Agriculture Committee] Mike Conaway, which is a very good sign. If we cannot get it done before the end of July, I am very confident Joe that you are going to see the farm bill done before the end of September... As well, 60% of the very conservative members voted for the House farm bill, so that is another great sign in light of some of the disputes they have had over farm programs in the past. CLICK HERE to listen to the full interview online. ###
07.17.2018	H.R. 1171 will eliminate unnecessary waiting period for patients with ALS WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) signed on as a cosponsor of the ALS Disability Insurance Access Act (H.R. 1171) which will waive the five-month waiting period for people disabled with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and enable them to immediately begin to receive Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) benefits. “I am proud to sign on as a cosponsor of this critically important legislation,” said Congressman Emmer. “People suffering from ALS, like my constituent Pete Klinkhammer, should not have to wait to receive the care they deserve. Congress must come together and send this bill to the President's desk with the utmost urgency. Every day we wait is a day too long.” “I am greatly appreciative of Congressman Emmer and his staff for seeing the importance of this legislation,” said Pete Klinkhammer, a constituent of Minnesota's Sixth Congressional District who suffers from ALS. “I agree with the Congressman’s characterization of this being an urgent need, because I’ve seen the devastation ALS has caused families. This is how members of Congress serve their constituents, by listening to their concerns and following through.” "We greatly appreciate Representative Emmer's co-sponsorship and support of this bill," said Jennifer Hjelle, Executive Director of The ALS Association's Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota Chapter. “ALS is a disease of ongoing physical, emotional and financial loss, and the families we serve cannot afford to wait five months for access to their disability benefits. Hopefully, with additional support from Rep. Emmer's colleagues in Washington, we'll see this bill written into law in the near future.” ALS is a neurodegenerative disease that affects nerve cells in the brain and the spinal cord, leading to total paralysis and death within two to five years of diagnosis. ALS usually strikes people between the ages of 40 and 70, and some 20,000 Americans have the disease at any given time. There is no known cause or cure. ###
07.16.2018	The Localizing Authority of Management Plans Act of 2018 will empower states, local governments, and tribes to manage species and improve habitat conservation WASHINGTON, DC - Today Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) signed on as a cosponsor of the Localizing Authority of Management Plans (LAMP) Act, legislation to update the Endangered Species Act (ESA). The LAMP Act will put states, local governments and tribes in charge of species conservation through cooperative agreements in order to reduce the volume of bureaucratic errors and work to correct faulty top-down assumptions. “The Endangered Species Act is long overdue for reform and the LAMP Act is an important part of this effort,” said Congressman Emmer. “Farmers and ranchers in Minnesota and across the country want to protect America’s wildlife, but the current ESA has failed, hurt farmers and their families, and cost billions. The top-down federal approach has not worked. In fact, less than two percent of all listed species has been removed since the ESA’s enactment in 1973. The LAMP Act is common-sense reform to grant greater flexibility and responsibility to those most capable of species conservation.” Specifically, the LAMP Act will permit the Secretary of Interior to enter into cooperative management agreements with states, local governments, tribes and other non-federal persons to better manage and recover species and improve habitat conservation. States with existing species conservation programs will be empowered to take the lead in managing and preserving those species. Emmer referenced the case of the Grey Wolf, which was originally listed as endangered in 1974. Since then, its population recovered and expanded more quickly than anticipated, leading the Fish and Wildlife Service to make efforts to return management of the Grey Wolf to the states in 2009. Special interest groups filed multiple lawsuits in a successful attempt to usurp states' power, and today, despite the Fish and Wildlife Service’s best efforts to make it clear that this species has recovered and they are prepared to delist, the Grey Wolf remains listed in the Great Lakes region. “The Grey Wolf is a perfect example of how the ESA is out of touch. We need clear objectives for species' and a process that won't be hijacked for nearly a decade by special interest group lawsuits,” said Emmer. Additional Background: The Endangered Species Act (ESA) has provided a framework for the protection of endangered and threatened species since 1973. Administered by the Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) and the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), it was originally envisioned as a law that would protect species believed to be on the brink of extinction. Following its enactment, there were 109 species listed for protection. Unfortunately, the ESA has fallen short of recovering and delisting species since its inception, with less than 2 percent of its current 1661 listed species delisted, many of which are either extinct or were listed in error. CLICK HERE to read the LAMP Act. ###
07.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed Congressman Tom Emmer's (MN-06) Main Street Growth Act (H.R. 5877) which will create jobs, improve capital formation and encourage more early-stage Initial Public Offerings (IPOs) by facilitating the creation of venture exchanges. The bill passed 56-0 out of the Financial Services Committee last month. “Today, the House took an important step to add to this economy’s growing momentum by passing the Main Street Growth Act,” said Congressman Emmer. A 2012 study found that for nearly 2,800 companies that participated in an IPO between 1996-2010, total employment across these businesses increased by 2.2 million jobs, while total revenue increased by over $1 trillion. However, participation in the IPO process has slowed over the years. Today the U.S. has half of the number of publicly listed companies than it had two decades ago. “It is critical that the current market structure meets the need for all types of companies to encourage more to go public which generates millions of jobs and trillions of dollars in revenue for the economy. This bill, which I was thrilled to see pass unanimously out of committee, will do just that by facilitating the creation of venture exchanges to embolden more early stage IPOs and improve capital formation for businesses in Minnesota and across the United States. As it heads to the Senate, I look forward to both sides of the aisle coming together to ensure that American entrepreneurs and workers can continue to succeed,” concluded Emmer. Specifically, H.R. 5877 will allow the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to provide for the creation of venture exchanges. These specialized securities exchanges would help small and emerging growth companies gain access to the capital they need to grow and succeed. It would also establish an Office of Venture Exchanges under its Division of Trading and Markets to study and monitor the effectiveness of these new exchanges. CLICK HERE to read H.R. 5877, CLICK HERE to watch Emmer speak on the House floor on H.R. 5877. ###
06.29.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Following the Minnesota Public Utilities Commision's (PUC) decision to replace Line 3 using the preferred route, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement: “I applaud the PUC's decision on Line 3 and am encouraged they agree replacing the pipeline using the preferred route is in the best interest for all Minnesotans. The fact is, Line 3 is old, needs significant repair, and is running at a fraction of its original capacity. Replacing it using the preferred route, which avoids reservation lands and environmentally sensitive areas, will ensure that the safe, continuous, reliable supply of North American energy is available to serve the needs of Minnesotans, Midwesterners and Americans. Additionally, a modern replacement, using state-of-the-art facilities and technologies, will provide thousands of jobs for Minnesotans. This is a win for all parties and I look forward to the project's completion.” In an op-ed published in the Minneapolis Star-Tribune, Reps. Emmer, Collin Peterson (MN-07), Rick Nolan (MN-08) and Jason Lewis (MN-02) advocated for the PUC to replace Line 3 using the preferred route. Read the full piece online here. ###
06.21.2018	(Courtesy of the Congressional Western Caucus) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Members of the Congressional Western Caucus including Chairman Paul Gosar (AZ-04), Chief Infrastructure and Forestry Officer Bruce Westerman (AR-04) and Members Tom Emmer (MN-06) and Kevin Cramer (ND-At Large) released statements after President Trump announced at a rally last night in Duluth, Minnesota that he would be cancelling the Obama Administration's political mineral withdrawal in the Superior National Forest: Congressman Emmer stated, “The President's announcement last night is great news for Minnesota. My MINER Act demonstrated strong bipartisan support for unleashing our state's mining potential and now, by reversing the politically motivated and short-sighted actions from the Obama administration on their way out the door, President Trump is stepping in to restore local control of Minnesota’s mineral rights. I am hopeful that the steps needed to ensure a full reversal of the former administration's harmful actions are taken soon, specifically ending the withdrawal proposal that has now dragged on for 18 months, to dramatically revitalize local communities and their economies.” Congressman Gosar said, "When the Minnesota mineral withdrawal was first announced in the twilight hours of the last Administration, we in the Western Caucus knew it would be an uphill battle to bring enough attention to it to get something done. So, we banded together, amplified the issue and worked to avert the terrible precedent and economic turmoil that would ensue if the withdrawal was left in place. Ultimately, piece by piece, these efforts have prevailed, with word of the problem making its way to President Trump just yesterday. When the President heard the numbers - 17,000 jobs, $3 billion for education, $1.5 billion in annual wages, $2.5 billion annually for the economy - he recognized that the obviously right thing to do was to reverse the action. And, it just so happens that policy created with a pen can be wiped away by one, too - thanks, Obama. We appreciate President Trump for immediately seeing that the right thing for Minnesota workers and families is to strike this withdrawal from the books, and I look forward to seeing the region's economy and education flourish as a consequence."Congressman Westerman stated, "Unnecessary rules handed down by unelected Washington, D.C., bureaucrats that violate agreements going back to the 1950s threatened the future of mining and economic development in Minnesota. I visited the operation and met with the Minnesotans affected by this political move, where I got to feel the impact that decision had on both our country and our economy. I thank President Trump for reversing heavy-handed rules handed down by the Obama Administration, allowing Americans to continue investing in jobs, economic development, and education.” Congressman Cramer concluded, “I commend President Trump for rolling back this misguided Obama-era land grab which took away our Minnesota neighbor’s ability to develop minerals in the state. I’ve been working with my colleagues in Congress, including Members from both parties in the Minnesota delegation, since President Obama proposed putting these hundreds of thousands of acres off limits. President Trump’s action will allow for jobs, increased wages, and reignite economic development in the Iron Range.” Background: Last night at a campaign rally in Minnesota, President Donald Trump announced that his Administration will be rescinding a mineral withdrawal initiated by the Obama Administration affecting the Superior National Forest in northern Minnesota. Click here or on the tweet by NBC below to watch: On January 19th, 2017, the day before President Trump was sworn in, the previous Administration published a 234,328-acre federal mineral withdrawal application in the Federal Register to restrict for a 20-year moratorium lands within the Superior National Forest in northeast Minnesota. It is being reported that, upon being briefed on the situation, the President immediately saw the importance to Minnesota workers and families of rescinding the massive withdrawal. The Western Caucus - led by members Tom Emmer and Bruce Westerman as well as Chairman Gosar - has advocated for this outcome since the withdrawal was first put in place. On June 30th, 2017, 26 bipartisan Members of Congress sent a letter asking for the Administration to cancel this political land grab. The robust Member turnout for this regional issue demonstrated the extent to which Members who had no immediate interest in the policy saw clearly the unfairness, unjustified damage to the regional economy and harm to education funding streams the withdrawal would impose. Legislative solutions to the withdrawal offered by Congressman Emmer were proposed and accepted by the full House of Representatives with the backing and support of the Western Caucus. The House passed H.R. 3905 to cancel the Obama mineral withdrawal and reinstate the two leases that were arbitrarily denied (the leases have since been reinstated). A press release can be found here. The House also passed an amendment to cancel the political land grab to the Interior Appropriations bill. A story about the amendment passing can be found here. The total withdrawal application boundary spans approximately 425,000 acres, including 95,000 acres of state school trust fund lands. 17,000 jobs, $3 billion for education, $1.5 billion in annual wages, $2.5 billion annually for the economy were at risk if the mineral withdrawal was allowed to stand. The withdrawal also contradicted established legislative intent of Congress. In 1978, Congress passed the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness Act (BWCAW), a historic compromise between interested parties that prohibited mining within the Boundary Waters Area but explicitly permitted mining to occur in the Superior National Forest. Unfortunately, debate surrounding mining in the Superior National Forest has often conflated the buffer of the Boundary Waters - in which mining will not be taking place under any proposed plan - with authorized mining in designated areas of the Forest. The President's announcement indicates he and his Administration were not mislead by those distortions. The area comprises the largest copper-nickel deposit in the world. There are billions of pounds of copper, nickel, and cobalt and millions of ounces of platinum, palladium, gold and silver. The market value of these resources is estimated to be $500 billion. ###
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, following House passage of the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018 (H.R. 2), commonly called the Farm Bill, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement: “Today's passage of the 2018 Farm Bill is a considerable step to provide relief and certainty for our farmers and ranchers in Minnesota and across the nation. I am proud to see the House pass this critical package, which contains major improvements for farmers and ranchers in Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District such as better dairy risk management tools for smaller operations, a strong crop insurance program, improved farm safety net programs like Agricultural Risk Coverage, and efforts to better respond to emerging diseases that devastate livestock producers throughout Minnesota,” said Congressman Emmer, whose district encompasses areas of rural Minnesota including parts of Stearns, Benton, Wright and Sherburne Counties. The Farm Bill also included Emmer's Stemming the Tide of Rural Economic Stress and Suicide (STRESS) Act, which will make mental health treatment more available for farmers, ranchers and agricultural workers who, due to the nature of their work and the lack of mental health treatment available, suffer from higher rates of depression and suicide. “As the Farm Bill heads to conference with the Senate, I am grateful to see the STRESS Act included and am encouraged to know my colleagues on both sides of the aisle are supportive of this effort to deliver more mental health treatment to our farmers who are suffering a rate of suicide five times higher than the normal population,” added Emmer. Specifically, the STRESS Act will reauthorize the Farm and Ranch Stress Assistance Network (FRSAN) to give states needed resources to provide mental health services for farmers and ranchers. Though the program was first authorized in 2008, it did not receive funding and therefore lapsed. Emmer's legislation will renew FRSAN, restoring our nation's attention to Americans in farming who are disproportionately affected by high rates of suicide. Learn more about the STRESS Act here and read the full legislative text here. Learn more about the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018 here and read the full legislative text here. ###
06.21.2018	Efforts include Emmer's MINER Act in 2017 WASHINGTON, DC - Following the President's announcement yesterday that his administration will rescind the federal withdrawal in the Superior National Forest and restore mineral exploration for Minnesota, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement: “The President's announcement last night is great news for Minnesota. My MINER Act demonstrated strong bipartisan support for unleashing our state's mining potential and now, by reversing the politically motivated and short-sighted actions from the Obama administration on their way out the door, President Trump is stepping in to restore local control of Minnesota’s mineral rights. “I am hopeful that the steps needed to ensure a full reversal of the former administration's harmful actions are taken soon, specifically ending the withdrawal proposal that has now dragged on for 18 months, to dramatically revitalize local communities and their economies.” Background: During the last days of his administration, President Obama threatened more than 425,000 acres of land with a prohibition on development, potentially instating a 20-year ban on industry activity, including up to two-years for a temporary study. This unchecked move by the former administration decimated local economies, specifically a projected loss of nearly 17,000 jobs and billions of dollars of revenue. In October 2017, Congressman Emmer introduced Minnesota’s Economic Rights (MINER) in the Superior National Forest Act to restore Minnesota's right to explore and, if environmentally appropriate, mine valuable precious metals. The House passed Emmer's MINER Act in November 2017 followed closely by action from the Department of Interior to renew the mineral leases in the area. President Trump's announcement signifies his commitment to ending the two-year study and fully restoring Minnesota's right to explore. ###
06.13.2018	Otsego, MN – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) today announced the winners of the Congressional Art Competition for high school students living in Minnesota’s Sixth District. “Congratulations to this year’s winner, Tyler, whose winning piece ‘Ray of Color’ will be displayed in the United States Capitol, as well as Esther and Shaelee, whose incredible artwork will be displayed in my Washington and Otsego offices,” said Congressman Emmer. “Tyler’s piece ‘Ray of Color’ stood out this year, but our judges always have a difficult time choosing a winner because Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District has so much talent. We are grateful to all of the Minnesotans who submitted their work and look forward to next year!” Tyler Gfroerer, a senior at St. Michael Albertville High School, won first place for his colored pencil drawing entitled “Ray of Color,” named after Tyler’s dog. Tyler is the son of Melissa and Matthew Gfroerer. His art teacher is Sara Henrickson. “Ray of Color” will be displayed in the United States Capitol for one year, where it will be viewed daily by members of Congress, staff, and visitors. Esther Stoy, a senior at Blaine High School, won second place for her mixed media piece entitled “Daddio,” portraying Esther's father. Esther is the daughter of John and Suzanne Stoy. Her art teacher is Pat Undis. Esther was the first place winner of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition and the 3rd place winner of the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. “Daddio” will be displayed in Emmer's Washington D.C. office. Shaelee Peterman, a junior at Blaine High School, won third place for her acrylic painting entitled “Old Friend Made Anew,” portraying Shaelee's best friend’s shoe. Shaelee is the daughter of Kelli and David Peterman. Her art teacher is Pat Undis. Shaelee's painting will be displayed in Emmer's Otsego office. The Congressional Art Competition is an annual competition for high school students across the United States. The winner from each district wins the chance to travel to Washington D.C. to visit with their Representative and see their artwork displayed in person. ###
06.13.2018	OPINION: Nothing Ventured, Nothing GainedBy Rob DalyJune 13, 2018 The House Financial Service’s subcommittee on Capital Markets, Securities, and Investments is far from a subtle body. With its recent unanimous markup approval of the Main Street Growth Act, or H.R. 5877, it wants the US Securities and Exchange Commission to address venture exchanges. The bill layouts almost everything that needs to be done to establish venture exchanges and defining the securities that would trade on such entities. Unlike the JOBS Act with its tick-pilot provision, it is doubtful that the Main Street Growth Act will make it into law due to Congressional gridlock unless someone tacks the bill onto one of the must-pass appropriation bills. Rep. Tom Emmer (MN-R), the bill’s author, must have known that since he included a “Sense of Congress” section that recommends that the SEC should start using its general exemptive relief authority granted to it under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as well as establish an Office of Venture Exchanges under its Division of Trading and Markets. The SEC knows that it must make a move regarding venture exchanges. Its Division of Trading and Markets held an industry roundtable on thinly traded stocks in April, where the participants floated the idea of one or more venture exchanges more than once. The problem the regulator faces is that there are too many unknown variables: Should there be more than one venture exchange? Should they use periodic auctions instead of continuous trading? Should over-the-counter trading of venture securities be banned? The bill is mum on how many venture exchanges it would like as well as on OTC trading, but it does mention the use of auctions. The one thing that is certain is that the current one-size-fits-all trading methodology is not working for the US cash equities market and has not worked for any other equities market around the globe, according to James Angel, a professor at the McDonough School of Business, Georgetown University. “Smaller companies need a market structure that provides suitable incentives for market participants to market their securities,” he told Markets Media. “The old Nasdaq did this with its wide spreads that were easily internalized by the dealers promoting the stocks.” It is time for the SEC to screw its courage to the sticking place and move forward on establishing one or more venture exchanges. Until one is up and running, the regulator will not have any hard data to collect and analyze. It would be great if a venture-exchange pilot were successful right out to the gate without additional tweaks, but that is seldom the reality of experimentation. No matter what a pilot’s outcome would be, the status quo is not a tenable long-term option. It is time to make a venture exchange a reality. -- Read full article online here. ###
05.31.2018	Otsego, MN – Today, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) congratulated the Military Academy appointees nominated by his office. Chloe Foster (Forest Lake), has been selected to attend the United States Military Academy-West Point; Riley Keck (Forest Lake) has been selected to attend the United States Military Academy-West Point; Adam Nygaard (Big Lake) has been selected to attend the United States Naval Academy; and Audrey Gadison (Blaine), has been selected to attend the United States Air Force Academy. “I am ecstatic that Chloe, Riley, Adam, and Audrey will be representing Minnesota’s Sixth District at our United States Military Academies,” said Congressman Emmer. “These young Minnesotans have worked hard to earn this great honor and I wish them continued success as they take their next steps!” (From left to right, Adam Nygaard, Chloe Foster, Congressman Emmer. Not pictured: Audrey Gadison, Riley Keck) ###
05.30.2018	(Courtesy of U.S. Department of the Interior) WASHINGTON - Continuing his work to expand recreational opportunities on public lands, U.S. Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke today designated 19 national recreation trails in 17 states, adding more than 370 miles to the national recreation trails system of more than 1,000 trails in all 50 states. “By designating these new national trails, we acknowledge the efforts of local communities to provide outdoor recreational opportunities that can be enjoyed by everyone,” said Secretary Zinke. “Our network of national trails provides easily accessible places to exercise and connect with nature in both urban and rural areas while boosting tourism and supporting economic opportunities across the country.” On Saturday, June 2, hundreds of organized activities are planned as part of American Hiking Society's National Trails Day®, including hikes, educational programs, bike rides, trail rehabilitation projects, festivals, paddle trips, and trail dedications. Trails of the National Recreation Trails system range from less than a mile to 485 miles in length and have been designated on federal, state, municipal and privately owned lands. “The network of national recreation trails offers expansive opportunities for Americans to explore the great outdoors,” said National Park Service Deputy Director Dan Smith. “As we celebrate the 50th anniversary of the National Trails System, I hope everyone will take advantage of a nearby national trail to hike or bike.” While national scenic trails and national historic trails may only be designated by an act of Congress, national recreation trails may be designated by the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture in response to an application from the trail's managing agency or organization. The National Recreation Trails Program is jointly administered by the National Park Service and the U.S. Forest Service, in conjunction with a number of Federal and not-for-profit partners, notably American Trails, which hosts the National Recreation Trails website. Secretary Zinke designated the following trails this year as national recreation trails: CALIFORNIA Mt. Umunhum Trail The Mt. Umunhum Trail offers 3.7 miles of moderate terrain to hikers, bicyclists, and equestrians as it passes through chaparral, pine and oak woodlands, over the headwaters of Guadalupe Creek, and climbs to one of the few publicly accessible peaks in the Bay Area. Views reveal the valley below, ridgelines, and nearby peaks. The trail emerges near the rocky summit where rare plants, lizards, birds, butterflies, and 360-degree vistas can be seen. FLORIDA Kathryn Abbey Hanna Park Trail System In the City of Jacksonville’s Kathryn Abbey Hanna Park, 20.85 miles of hiking and biking trails provide a variety of experiences for all skill levels: from easy hiking and biking on the 1.1-mile Service Road, to hiking the 6.0-mile Wellness Trail, to biking the very difficult 3.9-mile off-road Z-Trail. The trail system provides access to the shoreline, the extensive dune system, and maritime hammocks. KANSAS Fort Larned Historic Nature Trail On the grounds of Fort Larned National Historic Site, this 1.1-mile loop trail highlights history and nature. Fort Larned is located on the historic Santa Fe Trail and on the Central Flyway, a major bird migration corridor. There are fifteen stops along the trail corresponding to detailed information in the trail guide. A variety of habitats provide opportunities to view numerous species of birds. MASSACHUSETTS Fort River Birding and Nature Trail Designed and constructed through the teamwork of multiple youth, community, and Refuge partners, the 1.1-mile Fort River Birding and Nature Trail is located in Hadley at the Fort River Division of the Silvio O. Conte National Fish and Wildlife Refuge. The trail is universally accessible and functions as an outdoor visitor center, connecting people to nature by immersing them in diverse habitats from grasslands, riparian areas, and upland forests. MICHIGAN Iron Ore Heritage Trail The Iron Ore Heritage Trail is a 47-mile, multi-use, year-round trail that connects the sites and stories of the Marquette Iron Range, a significant historical area where iron mines operated to serve the country during the Civil War, the Industrial Revolution, World War I, and World War II. The rail-trail connects Marquette to Republic in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. North Western State Trail The 32 miles of the North Western State Trail connect the resort communities of Petoskey, Harbor Springs, Alanson, Pellston, and Mackinaw City in northern Michigan. Most of the universally accessible trail is located on the former Grand Rapids and Indiana line of the Pennsylvania Railroad. It is open year round to non-motorized users and to snowmobilers in winter. MINNESOTA Cannon Valley Trail Paralleling the Cannon River, this 19.7-mile trail runs through diverse and spectacular scenery on a former Chicago Great Western Railroad line connecting the cities of Cannon Falls, Welch, and Red Wing in southeastern Minnesota. The trail is open in all seasons for bicycling, in-line skating, skateboarding, hiking, walking, and cross-country skiing. MISSOURI Wilson's Creek Greenway The 5-mile Wilson’s Creek Greenway is the newest extension of a growing urban trail network in Springfield that is powered by a long list of diverse partners. The trail is a vital connection between neighborhoods, schools, businesses, and shopping areas; it plays a role in boosting social interaction, community pride, and mental health. People of all ages and abilities can access the woods and pastureland of the Ozarks for active transportation, bicycling, walking, running, skating, and wheelchair use. MONTANA River's Edge Trail The 53 miles of the River's Edge Trail in Great Falls is the perfect venue for biking, jogging, inline skating, running, and walking. Nineteen miles of fully accessible paved urban trails link many local parks and attractions along both sides of the scenic Missouri River. Connecting to the urban trails are over thirty miles of natural trails on the South Shore and North Shore for the best mountain biking and hiking in the region. NEW MEXICO Climax Canyon Nature Trail This easy to moderate 3-mile, figure 8 loop trail overlooking downtown Raton is named after the now abandoned Climax Mine. Schools use the trail as a field trip location to teach students about ecology, biology, geology, and natural science. With its historic significance and fantastic views of mountains, mesas, and New Mexico's high plains, the trail is one of Raton’s outdoor recreation treasures. NEW MEXICO AND TEXAS Guadalupe Ridge Trail Starting in Guadalupe Mountains National Park, 100 miles of trail traverses the rocky peaks of the highest point in Texas (Guadalupe Peak), Chihuahuan Desert terrain, mixed coniferous forests, riparian woodlands, and rocky canyons. The trail continues through the landscapes of the Lincoln National Forest. An optional loop includes Last Chance Canyon and the desert oasis of Sitting Bull Falls. The trail then crosses Carlsbad Caverns National Park and Bureau of Land Management property, with stunning views of the rugged Guadalupe Ridge. The trail ends in White’s City, New Mexico. The trail in places can include use by equestrian and stock, motorized vehicles, and bikes. NEW YORK Martin Van Buren Nature Trails This 3.7-mile system of trails is on 70 acres of land across from the Martin Van Buren National Historic Site. The trails are ideal for hiking, walking, families, dog walkers, environmental education, and youth activities. Features include meadow, stream, marsh, forest, farm, rolling hills, and historic right of way. PENNSYLVANIA Jim Mayer Riverswalk Trail Named for a local conservationist, the Jim Mayer Riverswalk Trail is a 3.1-mile urban rail-trail on the east end of the City of Johnstown. The trail offers views of the Stonycreek River, abundant bird-life and wildflowers, picturesque Buttermilk Falls, and serenity within an urban setting. As part of the local vision to make recreational trail use more accessible in the Greater Johnstown area, the trail provides opportunities for wellness, enhanced recreational experiences, and connections to other trail systems. SOUTH DAKOTA Blackberry Trail The Blackberry Trail is located entirely within Mount Rushmore National Memorial. This one-mile gravel trail connects with the Centennial Trail in the Black Elk Wilderness, a part of the Black Hills National Forest. Mainly used by equestrians as a spur trail to access Mount Rushmore, visitors have the opportunity to ride or hike in solitude, enjoying the trees, birds, and geology. TENNESSEE Bays Mountain Park Trail System Rising above the City of Kingsport, Bays Mountain Park and Planetarium features roughly 40 miles of trails suitable for all levels of hiking and mountain biking expertise. From scenic, fun, single-track trails to old service roads leading to the ridgetop fire tower, 31 named trails provide a great escape to the natural world. TEXAS Salado Creek Greenway The Salado Creek Greenway is a 15-mile scenic multi-use trail along Salado Creek within the northern part of the City of San Antonio. It has brought together people from all walks of life to share in health, recreation, wellness, and community. The trail connects the natural environment with the people who live near it and enhances the quality of recreation for the surrounding neighborhoods. UTAH Corona Arch This trail on Bureau of Land Management land leads to Corona Arch’s impressive 140 by 105-foot opening and the adjacent Bow Tie Arch. Approximately 14 driving miles from Moab, the 3 miles roundtrip trail provides visitors with striking views of the Colorado River and a large slickrock canyon. VERMONT Wright’s Mountain Trails This 7.2-mile network of paths and old logging roads provides recreational access to the forest land and wildlife habitat of Wright's Mountain, Bradford's highest peak. At the summit visitors enjoy a wonderful view in all seasons of the Waits River Valley. The pedestrian trails were constructed and are maintained by volunteers. VIRGINIA Dahlgren Railroad Heritage Trail The Dahlgren Railroad Heritage Trail is a 15.7-mile converted rails-to-trail located in King George County. The beautiful corridor with its continuous gravel and stone dust surface serves walkers, runners, and bikers. The trail is an official part of the Potomac Heritage National Scenic Trail. Each of the newly designated trails will receive a certificate of designation, a set of trail markers, and a letter of congratulations recognition from Secretary Zinke. “Bringing these trails into the National Recreation Trails system will increase Montanans’ access to their public lands,” said Congressman Greg Gianforte. “I appreciate Secretary Zinke’s recognition of River’s Edge Trail, which connects Great Falls with some of the best mountain biking and hiking through nearly 60 miles of trails. The collaborative effort among the city of Great Falls, Cascade County, state agencies, Northwestern Energy, and others made this important designation possible.” “The Blackberry Trail is an example of what a dedicated community can do to expand access to the Black Hills’ incredible landscapes,” said Congresswoman Kristi Noem. “Especially after the recent rehabilitation efforts, I am thrilled Secretary Zinke and the Trump administration have designated it as a National Recreation Trail.” “The designation of the Guadalupe Ridge Trail as a National Recreation Trail will provide hikers and recreationalists the opportunity to see some of the most picturesque landscapes in New Mexico,” said Congressman Steve Pearce. “The trail itself will run 100 miles from Guadalupe Peak through the Lincoln National Forest and ends at Carlsbad Caverns National Park. Increasing access to our public lands is absolutely essential and something that I will continue to push for. I am happy to have helped work with local communities to make this come to fruition and applaud all those involved for their hard work.” “An avid outdoorsman, I often take advantage of the parks and trails in East Tennessee,” said Congressman Phil Roe. “In addition to being a great place for East Tennesseans to spend time outdoors, our beautiful lands also help the local economy. I know these new trails will benefit Kingsport, and I thank Secretary Zinke for expanding recreational opportunities in the First District.” “The great state of Minnesota is home to an incredibly vast landscape of nature—countless lakes, trails, rivers and native trees and forests define the Land of 10,000 Lakes,” said Congressman Tom Emmer. “Thanks to Secretary Zinke, whose designation of the beautiful Cannon Valley Trail as a national recreation trail is great news for all Minnesotans who appreciate this attraction year-round, sunshine or snow for everything from hiking to cross-country skiing.” “As hundreds of thousands of Americans participate in American Hiking Society’s National Trails Day® on June 2 and celebrate the 50th Anniversary of the National Trails System Act all year, we applaud the opening of nineteen new recreational trails,” said American Hiking Society Executive Director Kathryn Van Waes. “Trails are an essential part of the fabric of our country and provide access to our public lands for all kinds of recreational users, from hunters and anglers to hikers and snow-shoers.” “Millions of Americans utilize our National Trails System to enjoy the great outdoors and understand our nation's heritage,” said Mary Ellen Sprenkel, President & CEO, The Corps Network. “Whether it's hiking, biking, camping, hunting, or fishing - trails also provide access to our nations most treasured landscapes and recreation opportunities. The nations 130 Conservation Corps and 24,000 Corpsmembers are proud to help construct and maintain our National Trails System and we applaud Secretary Zinke's commitment to expanding trails and access to recreation opportunities in honor of the 50th anniversary of the National Trails System Act.” “Congratulations on the 50th anniversary of the National Trails Act,” said Lewis Ledford, executive director of the National Association of State Park Directors. “Trails are exceedingly important to tourism and recreation in America’s State Parks, and we continue to grow the trail systems in response to the many types of users. Outdoor recreation opportunities include not only hiking, mountain biking, and horseback riding, but also a place for snowmobilers and OHRVs. Waterway trails are also an integral part of the outdoor recreation experience. Whether it is biking the most difficult terrain or taking a leisurely hike along a natural path, the trails provide healthy activities everyone can participate in and enjoy. The National Trails Act led the way for the majority of the states to enact support for trails such as Tennessee, among one of the first in April of 1971 to enact their State Scenic Trails Act. National and state designations highlight the unique significance trails offer in this most popular of outdoor recreation activities.”
05.29.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) joined Fox News Channel's Fox @ Night to discuss mining in Minnesota and the need to reverse the last minute actions by the Obama administration to stop exploration of some of the most valuable precious metal deposits in the world. Congressman Emmer said [in part]: What happened under the Obama Administration, the day President Obama was leaving they tried to kill two potential leases for mining opportunities in Northern Minnesota. They started a study to withdraw 234,000 acres from any future exploration or potential development. This would be huge in Minnesota because you are talking 5,000 potential mining jobs, not to mention the 12,000 construction jobs that you would have if someone actually proposed a mine on one of these two leases. Now, thanks to President Trump and his administration, the Department of the Interior has announced they are renewing the two leases that President Obama tried to kill. We still have the study that is ongoing with the Forest Service that the President needs to end. That study has been going on for 17 months. It needs to be done so that they can get to the business of exploring whether or not the great people of Minnesota can mine the largest copper nickel deposit in the world. What the President has done with his administration is revitalize the opportunity for mining in Northern Minnesota. Now, we have to follow through. They have to end the study, get the leases finalized, and grow not only wealth but protect our precious minerals. If we have to go get them somewhere else, this is a national security threat. The President has done amazing things so far, they just have to close the loop on this. We have to make sure not only are the leases renewed but the study is ended so we can get on with the business of exploration and hopefully someday, development. ###
05.25.2018	In this week's #FarmBillFriday, Rep. Tom Emmer (MN-6) underscores the impact depressed commodity prices and drops in net farm income have had on the lives of farmers and ranchers across the country. The STRESS Act, a measure he introduced, is included in the 2018 Farm Bill and will help address the mental and emotional strains of farming against the backdrop of today's down farm economy. Rep. Emmer said [in part]: This isn’t just an occupation, it’s a way of life. Right now farmers, ranchers, and agricultural workers across the country are looking to Congress for a strong farm bill.Because life on the farm isn’t what it used to be. Today, farmers are suffering some of the worst rates of suicide in the nation. Stress to make ends meet, social isolation, downturn of the market, low farm income, regulatory strains, and lack of treatment options all make it hard for farmers to get the help they need. That is why I introduced legislation to boost resources specifically for farmer’s mental health. With the support of Chairman Conaway and the House Agriculture Committee, I am proud to report help is on the way. Our farmers who feed the world are feeling the weight of the world on their shoulders. It’s time we get them the help and care they deserve. ###
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Today Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) attended the White House Signing Ceremony for S. 2155 – Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act. Congressman Emmer looked on as the President signed the bill, which includes Emmer's Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act (HMDAA), into law. The President said, in part: I'm going to read a few names because these people worked hard. This is all about the Dodd-Frank disaster. And they fixed it, or at least have gone a long way toward fixing it... Jim Banks, Andy Barr, Kevin Cramer, Sean Duffy, Tom Emmer... Today’s legislation is the next step in America’s unprecedented economic comeback... So I'll be signing now a very, very important bill from the standpoint of people, and jobs, and loans, and getting out there and building a business. And it's a tremendous honor to be with all of you folks today. And thank you for the great job. Thank you for this incredible amount of work. I know how hard this one was... Emmer (center back) looks on as the President signs S.2155 into law. Disclaimer Official White House Photo by Shealah Craighead This photograph is provided by THE WHITE HOUSE as a courtesy and may be printed by the subject(s) in the photograph for personal use only. The photograph may not be manipulated in any way and may not otherwise be reproduced, disseminated or broadcast, without the written permission of the White House Photo Office. This photograph may not be used in any commercial or political materials, advertisements, emails, products, promotions that in any way suggests approval or endorsement of the President, the First Family, or the White House. ###
05.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Today the House passed, and Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) supported, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act (S. 2155) which includes Congressman Emmer's Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act (HMDAA) and the Keeping Capital Local for Underserved Communities Act. The legislation now heads to the President's desk to be signed into law. “Today Congress took a major step forward for this country, its economy and for all Americans. This legislation will foster economic growth by providing relief to Main Street, tailor regulations for better efficacy, and most importantly it will empower individual Americans and give them more opportunity,”said Congressman Emmer, who serves on the House Financial Services Committee. “I am excited to see the Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act head to the President's desk. When I first introduced this legislation in 2015, I had the people of Minnesota in mind: the recent college graduate applying for his first car loan to get to and from his new job; the young couple looking for the credit they needed to purchase their first home; the entrepreneur applying for a loan to start her own business. I look forward to this legislation being swiftly signed into law to provide Minnesotans and Americans across the country more opportunity to finance their American Dream.” Emmer introduced the Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act when he first came to Congress in 2015, the same year the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) doubled the number of data points required to be collected by large and small lenders. While larger financial institutions have been able to absorb the millions of dollars in compliance costs, the smaller lenders on Main Street have stopped offering mortgages altogether, leaving many Americans without options in their hometown for any loan. Emmer's HMDAA will exempt these small lenders from the CFPB's additional, costly regulations, and provide more Americans opportunities to access the credit they need to buy a home, a car, or start or expand a business. Specifically, HMDAA will exempt institutions from the CFPB's reporting and disclosure requirements institutions that have originated in each of the two preceding calendar years: • fewer than 500 closed-end mortgage loans, and • fewer than 500 open-end lines of credit. In addition to HMDAA, legislation Congressman Emmer co-authored with Representative Gwen Moore (D-WI), the Keeping Capital Local for Underserved Communities Act of 2017, was also included in S. 2155. This bill updates an archaic definition of “deposit broker” in Section 29 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act that is currently discouraging community banks from taking on stable “reciprocal deposits,” which are used by many community banks, minority-owned banks, and community-development banks, thereby limiting loans and banking products in these communities. To address this problem, the Moore/Emmer bill allows a limited exemption for community banks for reciprocal deposits opening more access to capital in our local communities. CLICK HERE to read the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act. CLICK HERE to read Emmer's Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act. CLICK HERE to read Emmer's Keeping Capital Local for Underserved Communities Act of 2017. ###
05.21.2018	CMS misses congressional deadline, leaves states like Minnesota in the dark for how to treat those suffering from mental illness 1115 waiver guidance would increase access to mental illness treatment across the U.S. WASHINGTON, DC - Today Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) sent a letter to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), regarding the agency’s requirement to issue guidance for states like Minnesota in utilizing 1115 waivers to increase access to mental health treatment. Specifically, five months after a congressional deadline of December 2017, CMS has yet to issue 1115 waiver guidance, which informs states on how to navigate an outdated federal law, called the Institutions for Mental Diseases (IMD) exclusion, and ensure those suffering from mental illness receive the inpatient care they need. Following reports of nearly a dozen inpatient treatment centers in Minnesota on the line, Congressman Emmer pressed CMS for a prompt response. “When we passed the 21st Century Cures Act, Congress required CMS' assistance in increasing access to mental health treatment. Now, with dozens of treatment centers in Minnesota on the line, this long overdue guidance is desperately needed,” said Congressman Emmer. “Unfortunately this issue is not unique to my home state. There is a severe shortage of mental health treatment across the nation and the IMD exclusion is a key contributor to that shortage. For Minnesotans, and for all Americans, this is unacceptable. I look forward to a quick response from CMS to ensure those suffering from mental illness can get the treatment and care they deserve,” concluded Emmer. Through section 12003 of the 21st Century Cures Act which was signed into law in 2016, Congress required CMS to issue guidance for states in utilizing 1115 waivers to increase access to mental illness treatment. These waivers inform states on how they can redesign their mental health treatment systems and provide beneficiaries treatment in IMDs. Since 1965, the IMD has significantly blocked access to treatment for those with substance use disorder or mental illness. Specifically, the federal government will not pay for their treatment services in facilities with more than 16 beds. Read Emmer's letter to CMS here.
05.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) issued the following statement regarding the release of the Department of Interior’s (DOI) 2018 Critical Mineral list: “This report not only serves as a reminder that Minnesota’s miners play an integral part of our nation’s economy, it highlights the important role they have in protecting national security. While copper and nickel were not included in the list, I am pleased the Department has acknowledged the significant and indispensable nature of these materials, which are used in everyday products such as our cell phones and vehicles and enable modern living through electricity, plumbing, and advanced medical technology. “It's time to end our foreign dependence and responsibly mine here at home. Minnesota sits atop the largest untapped copper-nickel deposit in the world, and our state is ready to step up and help unleash America's full mining potential. I look forward to further action from the Department of Interior and this administration to support mining in Minnesota.” Background: Emmer introduced H.R. 3905, the Minnesota’s Economic Rights in the Superior National Forest (MINER) Act in November 2016. Emmer's bill reverses the misguided, last-minute actions of the Obama Administration to stop any exploration of one of the most valuable precious metal deposits in the world and protects Minnesota’s right to explore and, if environmentally appropriate, mine valuable precious metals. Then, last December, the Department of Interior reversed a memorandum by the outgoing Obama Administration authorizing discretionary rejections of existing lease renewals. Accordingly, earlier this month, the DOI reinstated leases denied in this manner. Recently, in April 2018, Congressman Emmer signed a letter to DOI Secretary Zinke requesting listing of copper as a 'critical mineral.' Read the letter here. ###
05.17.2018	Washington, D.C. – Last night, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) urged members of Congress to support our nation's farmers by taking action on his Stemming the Tide of Rural Economic Stress and Suicide (STRESS) Act (H.R. 5259) which is a part of the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018. Emmer's legislation will make mental health treatment more available for farmers, ranchers and agricultural workers who, due to the nature of their work and the lack of mental health treatment available, suffer from higher rates of depression and suicide. Watch Congressman Emmer speak on the House floor here. Full transcript: Mr. Speaker, In my home state of Minnesota, agriculture is one of the main drivers of our economy. And right now, farmers, ranchers and agricultural workers across the country are looking to Congress for a strong Farm Bill that improves the farm safety net and brings certainty to producers in uncertain times. Because life on the farm isn’t what it used to be. Today, farmers are suffering some of the worst rates of suicide in the country. General social isolation, downturn of the market, low farm income, regulatory strains, and lack of treatment options all make it hard for farmers to get the help they need. That’s why I introduced the STRESS Act to boost resources specifically for farmer’s mental health. With the support of Chairman Conaway and the House Agriculture Committee, I’m proud to see it included in this year’s Farm Bill. Our farmers who feed the world, are feeling the weight of the world on their shoulders. It’s time we get them the help and care they deserve. -- Learn more about the STRESS Act here. ###
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Following the President's announcement to withdrawal the United States from participation in the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) with Iran and re-imposing sanctions lifted under the deal, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement: “Since its announcement during my first year in Congress, I have been vocal in my strong opposition to the Iran Deal as it failed to establish permanent safeguards to prevent the rise of a nuclear-armed Iran. The United States' goal remains the same which is to achieve peace and stability here at home, in the Middle East, and around the world. As our nation begins to implement economic sanctions on Iran, I look forward to a deal that accomplishes what the Iran Deal does not: keeping the United States safe and secure.” Emmer has opposed JCPOA since it was implemented in 2015. CLICK HERE to listen to Emmer question of former Deputy Secretary of State Antony Blinken during a House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing. CLICK HERE to listen Emmer speak in strong opposition to JCOPA on the House floor. ###
05.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - In an interview on Minnesota Military Radio, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) gave an update on how Congress is working to improve the lives of veterans and their families in Minnesota and across the country. Listen here. As the representative of over 40,000 veterans in his district, and over 335,0000 veterans in the state, Congressman Emmer is a co-sponsor of the VA Care in the Community Act (H.R. 4242) which consolidates Department of Veterans Affairs' existing community care programs into one cohesive program. Learn more about the VA Care in the Community Act here. Listen to the full interview here and check out the 5 Top Takeaways below. Top 5 Takeaways from Emmer's Minnesota Military Radio Interview: 1. On the vacant VA Secretary position: "The VA Secretary serves at the will of the President. We'll hear the new name soon. Regardless of what you think, the appointment process has never been more acrimonious than it is now. Republican presidents, Democrat presidents, by now had all of their people installed and this administration has just been thwarted every step of the way." Listen here. 2. On getting our veterans the best care: "How do we honor the promise? People have signed up to protect our freedom both here and around the world. When they come home, and this is part of the deal, they need help. And when they need that help they need to have a top notch facility that is rivaled by no one. They should have access to private sector choices as well as the great VA services we have." Listen here. 3. On veterans issues being partisan: "It better not be. Anybody who is listening I hope understands that when we get to Washington, D.C. whether we are elected as a Republican or a Democrat, there are some issues that are not about a political party. This [veterans] is an American issue. People who put the uniform on, people who put their life at risk, their families who make this sacrifice right alongside them, these people are entitled to our highest attention and strongest work." Listen here. 4. On Congress moving to rebuild the military: "This is always front and center to me. Obviously I have a son in the Navy... I get so frustrated in Washington, D.C. I am pleased right now we are in the process of providing the funds that are so desperately needed to restore our military readiness... People don't understand that freedom is not free... This Congress, I am pleased to say, has been moving in that direction for the first time in several years. If you're going to send young people out into the field, they better have the equipment they need, training they deserve so they are the best prepared fighting force in the world. We better make sure that happens because we want them to come home. And we haven't had that in recent years. We have lost more young people in training accidents in the last two years than we've lost in combat. That is what has to change." Listen here. 5. On veterans suicide: "We lose approximately 22 veterans and one active duty soldier every day. This is not just an incident. This is a crisis we need to address in this country. It's a lot about bringing awareness, it's a lot about getting our soldiers, our veterans back into the mainstream so they can feel good about themselves so they aren't isolated. Last week we had the Congressional Hockey game with the Wounded Warriors. These guys are studs. They don't want a favor... It was a great game but the purpose of it is to draw these wonderful veterans into the mainstream, let them know there is a support network here. We want to help. These are our friends. These are the people who we counted on to protect us and so we need to protect them now." Listen here. ABOVE: Emmer in studio with radio host and Vietnam veteran Tom Lyons. Listen to the full interview here. About Minnesota Military Radio: With a team of producers from the Minnesota National Guard, Department of Veterans Affairs, and Minneapolis V.A., volunteer host and Vietnam veteran Tom Lyons strives to inform and entertain listeners in this weekly syndicated radio show and podcast. Click here to learn where and how to listen, including the full schedule and coverage map. ###
05.04.2018	(Courtesy of the Congressional Western Caucus) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Paul A. Gosar D.D.S. (AZ-04), Chief Infrastructure and Forestry Officer Bruce Westerman (AR-04), Western Caucus Member Tom Emmer (MN-06), and representatives for the Competitive Enterprise Institute, the American Exploration & Mining Association, the National Mining Association, the American Resources Policy Network, the Arizona Mining Association, the Southern Arizona Business Association, the Yavapai Cattle Growers Association as well as Apache County Supervisor Doyel Shamley released the following statements after 23 Members of Congress sent a letter to President Trump and agency heads requesting that they initiate a comprehensive review of all mineral withdrawals implemented by the previous Administration - and reverse any that are shown to be without merit: Chairman Paul Gosar stated, "Today, we implore this Administration to take a closer look at several improper mineral withdrawals that were planned behind closed doors and executed in unprecedented haste by the last Administration. These massive mineral estate removals proved devastating to local communities, imperiling good-paying jobs and shattering investor and mining company confidence. The Trump Administration has done an incredible job signalling that it supports responsible job creation and opposes arbitrary or political violations of the rule of law. The next natural step in acting on that agenda is to reverse these withdrawals in the Superior National Forest, Arizona Strip and Southwest Oregon regions - as well as any of the other Obama-era withdrawals the Administration deems unnecessary and harmful. President Trump: Believe it or not, some of our people still aren't tired of wining. Do this, and you may get Rural America to love you even more than it already does." Chief Infrastructure and Forestry Officer Bruce Westerman said, “Domestic minerals are critical to both our national security and economic well being. At no point should either be needlessly harmed for partisan gain. My colleagues and I encourage the swift and thorough review of these clearly political domestic mineral withdrawals.”Congressman Emmer stated, “In their final hours, without hesitation or merit, the Obama Administration put thousands of jobs on notice, threatened the economic foundation of communities around the country, including in Minnesota, and took steps to make it harder for the United States to access minerals and materials critical to our national security. These actions blocked responsible projects from proving they can be done while protecting our environment. It’s time this Administration take a deeper look into these politically motivated moves. I look forward to swift action from the Department of Interior and the President to undo the damage of the former administration.” “With more than one-half of the U.S. mineral estate already off limits or subject to severe restrictions, allowing these withdrawals to remain will only increase our Nation’s reliance on foreign sources of strategic and critical minerals while shipping high paying jobs overseas,” said the American Exploration & Mining Association. “The negative effects of large-scale withdrawals of federal lands from mineral entry extend far beyond depressing mineral production in the United States. These withdrawals also destroy high-paying jobs, undermine rural economies, and contribute to locking up the vast federal estate. Revoking the withdrawals made by the previous administration is a good first step, which should be followed by a comprehensive review of all the lands that have been withdrawn over many decades,” said, Myron Ebell, Director for the Center for Energy and Environment at the Competitive Enterprise Institute. “America’s supply chain is at risk thanks, in part, to political decision-making in recent years that had little to do with good stewardship and everything to do with short-term political expediency,” said Hal Quinn, President and CEO of the National Mining Association. “Despite being home to rich mineral deposits, less than half of the mineral needs of U.S. manufacturing are met domestically, leaving key domestic industries vulnerable to foreign sources. While some land withdrawals may be necessary, a comprehensive review of mineral withdrawals executed under the previous administration is merited given the unprecedented frequency and scope of past actions locking up important strategic resources.” “Northern Arizona’s unique breccia pipe geological formations represent the nation’s largest source of high-grade uranium ore. The current reality is that America’s nuclear power industry imports approximately 92 percent of the uranium it uses from foreign sources. Given domestic availability of this uranium, importing this material defies all reason. America has more than enough uranium within our borders to supply our own needs. Responsible domestic uranium mining followed by reclamation will provide great benefits for our country’s electric power needs, local economies and the environment. America’s nuclear power plants are clean and release no carbon emissions, making these deposits in northern Arizona an almost perfect remedy for our electricity-dependent nation,” stated Steve Trussell, Executive Director of the Arizona Mining Association. "If we do not repair the damages done by erroneous blockading of mineral utilization, this country will continue to allow itself to be subject to increased threats to our strategic position. Further, failing to overturn political mineral withdrawals by the previous administration will block tens of thousands of jobs and cause significant harm to our economy," said Doyel Shamley, Apache County Supervisor. “Without a strong economic environment and self-sustaining resource development effort the US will not have the ability to lead and support the very freedoms that all want to embrace. The withdrawal of our much needed mineral resources by the previous administration leaves this country, the leader of freedom and environmental around the world vulnerable to governments that don’t respect the human or natural environment," stated the Southern Arizona Business Coalition. “In this day and age, and given our standing in the eyes of the world, it is ridiculous that we should be dependent on so many important minerals and subject to the whim of foreign countries when we can develop most of these resources right here in America. Accordingly, the Trump Administration should act to scrap political mineral withdrawals by the Obama Administration,” said Larry Parker, President of the Yavapai Cattle Growers Association. Background: Today, May 2, 2018, the Western Caucus led 23 Members of Congress in sending a letter addressed to President Trump, Secretaries Zinke and Perdue and U.S. Forest Service Acting Secretary Christiansen respectfully requesting that they initiate a comprehensive review of all mineral withdrawals implemented by the previous Administration, and that they reverse any withdrawals determined to be without merit or to have been initiated in order to block specific development. Members asked that a review confirm the withdrawals' statutory compliance as well as consider their practicality, necessity and economic and national security impacts. Read the letter with all signers HERE. The prior Administration was responsible for more significant withdrawals of the federal mineral estate from exploration, location and entry than any other to date. Tens of millions of acres were withdrawn, with some of the most consequential actions coming at the very end of the Obama Administration in a flurry of rushed orders that wreaked devastation on the communities and companies that were abruptly targeted. Rather than there being a sudden, increased danger posed by mining that was entirely unknown prior to the last Administration's arrival in 2008, it is clear from the Obama Administration's land selection choices that they leveraged executive power to lock up land from legitimate development in order to appease environmentalist and other special interest demands. As House Committee on Natural Resources Chairman Rob Bishop noted in a September 28, 2017 letter to Secretaries Zinke and Perdue, “Under the prior Administration, mineral access on Federal land was regularly and systemically blocked, harming our nation’s economic and strategic potential. Indeed, millions of acres of Federal lands were inappropriately withdrawn from mineral access due to false premises of environmental protectionism and the intentional misuse of statutory authority." He also observes that these withdrawals seem to have been inconsistent with statutory requirements regarding mineral withdrawals under the Federal Land Management Policy Act (FLMPA), both in their size as well as by potentially failing to meet the FLMPA's "consideration" standard for such withdrawals. It's the long-stated position of the Trump Administration, on the other hand, that the United States must embark on a policy of securing the domestic production of critical and strategic minerals with sensitive supply chains in order to ward off foreign influence and control over our nation's physical and economic security. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Letter signers (23): Paul Gosar, Tom Emmer, Bruce Westerman, Rob Bishop, Roger Marshall, Brian Babin, Doug LaMalfa, Chris Stewart, Jody Hice, Mark Amodei, Jackie Walorski, Ted S. Yoho, D.V.M., Mark Meadows, Scott Perry, Paul Cook, Alex X. Mooney, Randy Weber, Kevin Cramer, John Duncan, Jeff Duncan, Scott DesJarlais, Doug Lamborn, Ron Estes Endorsed by: American Exploration & Mining Association, National Mining Association, Women's Mining Coalition, Competitive Enterprise Institute, Americans for Limited Government, American Resources Policy Network, Alaska Miners Association, APEX, Arizona Mining Association, Arizona Pork Council, Arizona Rock Products Association, AZ BASS Nation, Bass Federation-AZ, Hibbing Area Chamber of Commerce, Hudbay Rosemont Copper Project, Idaho Mining Association, Jobs For Minnesotans, MiningMinnesota, New Mexico Cattle Growers’ Association, New Mexico Wool Growers Inc., SRT Outdoors, Sulphur Springs Valley Electric Cooperative, Utah Mining Association, Yavapai Cattle Growers Association, Arizona District 6 Senator Sylvia Allen and Yavapai County Supervisors Rowle Simmons and Thomas Thurman ###
05.03.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Interior reinstated two mineral leases in Minnesota: “Building on the passage of my MINER Act, today's action is another step to full restoration of our state's right to explore and advance responsible mining. As we continue to correct the politically motivated missteps of the Obama administration, I remain committed to bringing thousands of jobs and billions of dollars back to Minnesota and putting our local communities on a path of economic prosperity for years to come.” Last November the House passed Congressman Emmer's Minnesota’s Economic Rights in the Superior National Forest Act (MINER) to help restore mineral rights to Minnesota by reversing last-minute actions of the Obama administration and allow exploration of one of the most valuable precious metal deposits in the world to move forward. Read more about Emmer's MINER Act here.
05.01.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Following the announcement of Minnesota's Sixth Congressional District to receive over $200 million for two of its major highways, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06), who lead a letter last month to Minnesota Department of Transportation Commissioner Charles Zelle urging approval for the funding, released the following statement: “This is an incredible win for constituents of the Sixth District. As I wrote to Commissioner Zelle, while Minnesota’s metropolitan communities and businesses have continued to expand, our transportation infrastructure has not kept pace, creating a strain on those who rely on these highways. I-94 in particular is a critical corridor whose ability to handle capacity efficiently and safely is absolutely key, which is why ensuring funding has been a top priority since I came into office. This investment will kick start major change, directly benefiting Minnesotans in my district and across the state. “While this is a major step forward, it is still just the beginning. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to provide federal support for Minnesota’s transportation infrastructure to promote safe and efficient movement of people and goods.” Read Congressman Emmer's letter to Commissioner Zelle here. See the full list of selected project for the Corridors of Commerce Program here. ###
04.27.2018	(Courtesy of the Congressional Western Caucus) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Paul A. Gosar D.D.S. (AZ-04), Chief Regulatory Reform Officer Andy Biggs (AZ-05), Western Caucus Member Tom Emmer (MN-06) and the American Exploration & Mining Association released statements after Members of the Western Caucus led an effort supported by 30 Members of Congress and endorsed by dozens of business representatives, elected officials and resource experts requesting that the final composition of the 'critical minerals' list include aggregates, copper, molybendum, gold, zinc, nickel, lead, silver and certain fertilizer compounds additional to the 35 originally put in the draft list: Chairman Paul Gosar stated, "President Trump and Secretary Zinke have done a great thing by opening up the critical mineral designation process and really listening to the input of experts, Congress, industry and members of the public in order to examine the economic and geopolitical ramifications of certain minerals being placed in or excluded from the 'critical minerals' list. This is a list of those minerals that rely on sensitive international supply chains but are of extreme importance to our economy and national security. The good news is that for so many of the minerals which may be designated 'critical', we enjoy substantial reserves at home. There is no need for the United States to be import-reliant on adversaries and foes for these valuable materials. Today, we ask that those who are making decisions about 'critical' status make sure that obviously-critical minerals like copper, gold, molybdenum, zinc and others make the final list. Given the incredible domestic need for these minerals, it's no exaggeration to say that the very security and stability of our country depends on the United States government prioritizing permitting and development of our vast reserves right here in America." Chief Regulatory Reform Officer Andy Biggs said, “The Trump Administration is doing great work on critical minerals. Arizona is home to one of the largest reserves of copper in the world, and should be included in the Administration’s final list. Expanding the critical minerals list will enhance our national security, infrastructure, and economy. I urge Secretaries Zinke and Ross to strongly consider our constituents’ requests to include copper and other vital minerals." “The Administration's report proves what we have known for a while: the United States irresponsibly depends on foreign nations for critical minerals. We have the option to shift away from this alarming 100 percent reliance by optimizing our nation’s own deposits, the largest of which can be found in my home state of Minnesota. To this day, the largest copper-nickel deposit in the world in northern Minnesota remains untapped. The report illuminates the dangerous costs of continuing down this road, the most serious of which is the risk to our national security, which is why I urge action on my MINER Act to allow for environmentally-appropriate exploration of one of the world’s most valuable precious metal deposits,” said Congressman Emmer. “The Trump Administration is on the right track to recognize the importance of critical minerals in the American Economy. However, the time is ripe to complete the task and end our foreign dependence when we are ready to responsibly mine here at home. $9.2 Billion and 16,500 jobs are waiting to be unleashed benefiting rural economies,” stated the American Exploration & Mining Association. Background: Today, 30 Members of Congress signed and sent a letter to relevant Administration officials including Secretaries Zinke and Ross as well as the White House Council on Environmental Quality Acting Chair Neumayr requesting that they consider the addition of other minerals to the 'critical minerals' list. Additional requested minerals include: aggregates, copper, molybendum, gold, zinc, nickel, lead, silver and certain fertilizer compounds. To see the full letter, including explanations for the possible inclusion of each of the above minerals, as well as Members' signatures click HERE. On December 20, 2017 President Trump issued Executive Order 13817, in which he directed the Secretary of the Interior in coordination with the Secretary of Defense and consultation with heads of other relevant agencies to determine and publish a list of critical minerals. Under the Executive Order, a 'critical mineral' is one which is identified to be a non-fuel mineral or mineral material essential to the economic and national security of the United States, the supply chain of which is vulnerable to disruption, and that serves an essential function in the manufacturing of a product, the absence of which would have significant consequences for the economy or for national security. An initial draft list was produced by the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) within the Department of the Interior (DOI) in cooperation with the Bureau of Land Managmennt and published on February 16, 2018 seeking public comment on changes to the list. See the press release issued by the DOI upon the release of the initial draft list here. While 35 total materials which meet the definition of a 'critical mineral' were included in that initial list, many resource and foreign policy experts believe that several others, including copper, zinc, molybdenum, gold, silver, several fertilizer compounds and others should be considered as potential additions due to factors including the United States' net import reliance, trends in importation, the questionable or unfriendly diplomatic status of countries from which importation is significant or likely to grow, or other factors which could imperil the stability of supply chains of minerals which are of significant economic or national security importance to the country. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _Members of Congress (30) who signed the letter include: Mark Amodei, Andy Biggs, Dave Brat, Mo Brooks, Ken Buck, Paul Cook, Scott DesJarlais, Jeff Duncan, John Duncan, Tom Emmer, Ron Estes, Greg Gianforte, Louie Gohmert, Paul Gosar, Jody Hice, Duncan Hunter, Raul Labrador, Doug LaMalfa, Doug Lamborn, Alex Mooney, Ralph Norman, Steve Pearce, Scott Perry, Keith Rothfus, David Schweikert, Jason Smith, Lamar Smith, Chris Stewart, Daniel Webster and Ted YohoLetter endorsed by: American Exploration & Mining Association, Women’s for Mining Coalition, Americans for Limited Government, Arizona Mining Association, Alaska Miners Association, American Resources Policy Network, APEX, Arizona Association of Conservation Districts, Arizona Cattlemen's Association, Arizona Pork Council, Arizona Rock Products Association, ASARCO LLC, AZ BASS Nation, Bass Federation-AZ, Hibbing Area Chamber of Commerce, Hudbay Rosemont Copper Project, Idaho Mining Association, Jobs For Minnesotans, MiningMinnesota, New Mexico Cattle Growers’ Association, New Mexico Wool Growers Inc., SRT Outdoors, Sulphur Springs Valley Electric Cooperative, Utah Mining Association, Yavapai Cattle Growers Association, Arizona District 6 Senator Sylvia Allen, Apache County Supervisor Doyel Shamley and Yavapai County Supervisors Thomas Thurman and Rowle Simmons ###
04.25.2018	(Courtesy of Senator Tina Smith) Today, Senator Tina Smith hosted the eighth annual Minnesota Congressional Delegation Hotdish Competition. Sen. Smith took up the helm of Al Franken’s annual hotdish off to determine which Minnesota Congressional Delegation member makes the best hotdish. You can download video from the event here, here, and here, and an interview with Sen. Smith that you should feel free to use here. Participants recipes can be found here. You can find photos of the competition here. Rep. Tom Emmer’s “Hotdish of Champions” was named the winner of the 2018 Hotdish Off after a blind taste test—and a tie broken by Master of Ceremonies (and MinnPost’s Washington Correspondent) Sam Brodey—of all ten dishes. The judges included: · Phill Drobnick—Gold-medal winning Coach of U.S Men’s Olympic Curling Team, the Minnesota hometown heroes known as “Team Shuster” · Joe Gill—Farm Director of KASM Radio in Albany, Minnesota · Noobtsaa Philip Vang—University of Minnesota graduate and founder of Foodhini, an online restaurant serving up meals handcrafted by immigrant and refugee chefs in the Washington, D.C. area · Kate Schaefers—Volunteer State President of AARP Minnesota This is Rep. Emmer’s first hotdish title. “I’ve often said that serving as Lieutenant Governor was like being invited into Minnesotan’s living rooms,” said Sen. Smith “Now, as Senator, I am proud to continue this tradition today because it’s like bringing the Minnesota kitchen—and the tradition of great hotdish—to Washington. I want to thank all of my colleagues in the Minnesota Congressional delegation for taking part, and congrats to Rep. Emmer for winning this year’s competition.” “I was excited to once again join all of my Minnesota colleagues for the annual Hotdish competition,” said Congressman Emmer. “My hotdish this year was inspired by the incredible performances of Minnesotans, like Maddie Rooney and Mike Shultz of Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District, in the 2018 Winter Olympics. Just like them, this ‘Hotdish of Champions’ brought home the gold!” “This year, the USA Olympic curling team brought home its first ever gold and captured hearts across America,” said Sen. Klobuchar. “With seven of the ten members of Team USA’s curling team hailing from MN, my ‘Gold Medal Curling Hotdish’ is the perfect way to savor that victory—literally—because the only thing more Minnesotan than winning gold medals in winter sports is celebrating with a hearty hotdish.” “Gathering together over hotdish is a timeless part of what makes our Minnesota way of life so great,” said Rep. Walz. “While we might not see eye to eye all the time, there’s no tastier a reminder that we are all Minnesotans than the Hotdish Competition. I’d like to thank Senator Smith for keeping this friendly tradition alive.” “After last year’s narrow and controversial defeat to Rep. Peterson, my office came back with more experience, more knowledge, and a, dare we say, cutting edge hotdish.” Rep. Lewis said. “Competition aside, it really is great to be able to come together and mix comradery, good food, and a great Minnesota tradition.” “Nothing brings Minnesotans together like hotdish. I’m pleased that Senator Smith has continued this friendly competition with our state’s favorite comfort food,” Rep. McCollum said. “Congratulations to Rep. Emmer on winning today, and thanks again to my colleagues for sharing their favorite hotdish recipes with all of us.” "It's that time of year again—when Minnesotans learn which member of the state's congressional delegation has introduced a new, unique ingredient to their hotdish recipe,” said Rep. Paulsen. “It's good to see Republicans and Democrats cooking up ways to bring a taste of Minnesota to the halls of Congress." “The hotdish competition is a time for us Minnesotans to truly flex what makes our state great: our people, our traditions and our food,” said Rep. Keith Ellison. “This year I wanted my dish to give a nod to the Minnesota Miracle, which I got to witness straight from U.S. Bank Stadium. Win or lose, the hotdish competition is always a treat, and I want to thank Senator Smith for hosting this great event." “This annual event is a strong display of bipartisanship with good food,” Peterson said. “It’s always a pleasure to gather with the delegation over a plate of Minnesota hotdish.” “Here in Minnesota, hot dish is a way of life,” Nolan observed. “Hot dish exemplifies the Minnesota qualities we hold dear - warmth, togetherness, creativity, and not too much spice.” The other members prepared the following hotdishes: Sen. Tina Smith’s “10,000 Island Cheeseburger Hotdish Surprise,” Sen. Klobuchar’s “Gold Medal Curling Hotdish,” Rep. McCollum’s “SPAM Good Hotdish,” Rep. Walz’s “Tariff Tot Hotdish,” Rep. Ellison’s “Minnesota Miracle(whip) Hotdish,” Rep. Paulsen’s “Northwoods Breakfast Hotdish,” Rep. Rick Nolan’s “Tater Tot Hotdish,” Rep. Peterson’s “Buck the Party Line Hotdish,” and Rep. Jason Lewis’ “Purple People Wild Meat Eater Hotdish.” Last year, Rep. Peterson earned his first hotdish title with his “Right to Bear Arms Hotdish. Two years ago, Rep. Tim Walz added a third title after taking the top prize in 2013 and 2014. In 2015, Rep. McCollum won with "Turkey, Sweet Potato, and Wild Rice Hotdish" in 2015. Sen. Franken's "Mom's Mahnomin Madness Hotdish" and Rep. Chip Cravaack's (R-Minn.) "Minnesota Wild Strata Hotdish" tied for first place in 2012. Sen. Klobuchar’s "Taconite Tater-Tot Hotdish" won in 2011. Participants' recipes can be found here. You can download photos of the event here. ###
04.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Following the announcement of Miguel Díaz-Canel as the next President of Cuba, the Cuba Working Group issued the following statement: “For the first time in nearly six decades, the world will know a Cuba without a Castro at the helm. For the United States, this is an opportunity for a new and improved relationship with our neighbor just 90 miles off the Florida coast - one we cannot afford to let slip through our grasp. “Cuba’s new leadership holds cautious promise for the Cuban people, potentially ushering in a number of positive changes on the island. Should the United States fail to build on this opportunity, other nations will continue to fill the void, curbing market access for U.S. farmers and businesses, handicapping our national security, and limiting access by the Cuban people to important elements of the United States’ economy, culture, values, and democratic ideals. “For years, efforts to improve relations between our two nations have been an Executive-led endeavor. While transitions take time, if Congress is serious about repairing American-Cuban ties and improving the well-being of the Cuban people, we must take action to reset relations and ensure the next 60 years are not filled with the same outdated, unproductive, and shortsighted rhetoric and policies of generations past.”
04.18.2018	OTSEGO, MN – Today Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced his office will be accepting applications for the third annual Young Women Leadership Program (YWLP) for high school girls in Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District through May 23rd. The YWLP is an annual program designed to give young women the opportunity to learn from and engage with some of Minnesota's top female leaders. “For the third year in a row, I am proud to announce the continuation of the Young Women Leadership Program,” said Congressman Emmer. “This is an incredible opportunity for young Minnesotans to learn from some of the best in our state. Mentorship is vital to ensuring our future leaders have the tools they need to succeed and after the past success of this program, I look forward to meeting the impressive young women who will participate this summer." More information on the YWLP: The Young Women Leadership Program provides high school girls from Minnesota’s Sixth District the opportunity to learn from female professionals who have built successful careers in business, media, law, government and other major industries. In an open roundtable discussion, participants engage with panelists who share guidance on networking, career planning, and work life balance among other professional advice. Former panelists include radio professionals, attorneys, military leaders, government officials and executives at Fortune 500 companies. How to apply: Interested individuals can apply here. For more details on Congressman Emmer’s Young Women Leadership Program click here. Deadline to apply is May 23rd. ###
04.13.2018	2018 Farm Bill also includes better dairy risk management tools, stronger crop insurance program, improves Agricultural Risk Coverage Program WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Tom Emmer's (MN-06) Stemming the Tide of Rural Economic Stress and Suicide (STRESS) Act (H.R. 5259) is included in the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018, which was released earlier today. Emmer's legislation will make mental health treatment more available for farmers, ranchers and agricultural workers who, due to the nature of their work and the lack of mental health treatment available, suffer from higher rates of depression and suicide. “To farmers in Minnesota and across the country: help is on the way. The STRESS Act’s inclusion in the Farm Bill means that we are finally taking steps to turn the tide on America's farmer suicide crisis,” said Congressman Emmer, whose district encompasses areas of rural Minnesota including parts of Stearns, Benton, Wright and Sherburne Counties. “I thank the House Agriculture Committee for their support and look forward to seeing the package move quickly through Congress and to the President's desk. Now more than ever, and without further delay, America's farmers deserve our full support.” The STRESS Act will reauthorize the Farm and Ranch Stress Assistance Network (FRSAN) to give states needed resources to provide mental health services for farmers and ranchers. Though the program was first authorized in 2008, it did not receive funding and therefore lapsed. Emmer's legislation will renew FRSAN, restoring our nation's attention to Americans in farming who are disproportionately affected by high rates of suicide. Emmer added: “In addition to the STRESS Act, there are many other positives for Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District such as better dairy risk management tools for smaller operations, a strong crop insurance program, improved farm safety net programs like Agricultural Risk Coverage, and efforts to better respond to emerging diseases that devastate livestock producers throughout Minnesota.” Learn more about the STRESS Act here and read the full legislative text here. Learn more about the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018 here and read the full legislative text here. ###
03.29.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Agriculture industry groups are voicing their support for Congressman Tom Emmer's (MN-06) Stemming the Tide of Rural Economic Stress and Suicide (STRESS) Act (H.R. 5259) which would reauthorize the Farm and Ranch Stress Assistance Network (FRSAN) to make mental health treatment more available for farmers, ranchers and agricultural workers. WHAT THEY'RE SAYING: National Rural Health Association: “For those in rural areas seeking mental health services, they face two giant obstacles: availability and accessibility. In 55% of all American counties, most of which are rural, there is not a single psychologist, psychiatrist or social worker. The Farm and Ranch Stress Assistance Network (FRSAN) could help support agricultural workers and their families in rural communities by providing easily obtainable resources for mental health services.” Minnesota Farmers Union: “Minnesota Farmers Union (MFU) thanks Rep. Emmer for introducing the Stress Act aimed at assisting farmers dealing with mental health issues that have been highlighted in recent months with a continued sluggish farm economy, especially for dairy farmers. MFU will continue to work with Rep. Emmer to see that this important and needed legislation is passed by Congress in a timely manner.” Matthew Fitzgerald, farmer and co-leader of the Central Minnesota Young Farmers Coalition: “It's no secret that the farm economy is struggling. What's harder to talk about is the stress that it puts on farmers. The STRESS Act addresses the very real mental health challenges farmers face. Farms are the cornerstone of our communities, and this legislation demonstrates that the community understands, values, and supports its farmers. We are grateful for that and, as always, remain optimistic about the future.” National Farmers Union: “Farming and ranching is a highly stressful occupation. As the downturn in the farm economy worsens, many producers are finding themselves in a state of financial crisis. Unfortunately, many family farmers and ranchers lack access to the support they need in times of extreme duress. FRSAN would fund partnerships to train farm advocates, establish helplines, and provide outreach and support services. NFU has long advocated for these resources, and we applaud the efforts of Representatives Emmer and O’Halleran to ensure family farmers get the support they need to stay healthy and afloat through these tough times. We urge Congress to strengthen FRSAN and provide it with robust funding in the next Farm Bill.” Ian L. Maw, Ph.D., Vice President, Food, Agriculture & Natural Resources, Association of Public & Land-Grant Universities: “APLU strongly supports this effort to reauthorize the Farm and Ranch Stress Assistance Network. Cooperative extension, with their county based/local delivery, is uniquely situated to support and extend efforts to provide stress assistance programs to individuals who are engaged in farming, ranching, and other agriculture-related occupations.” Minnesota Farm Bureau President Kevin Paap: “With the unique and unpredictable stress and emotional situations in farming, having support when you need it is essential to keeping farmers farming.” Learn more about the STRESS Act here. ###
03.22.2018	Minnesota Gopher Men’s Hockey Coach to Retire After Incredible 19 Seasons Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) took to the House floor to recognize the outstanding career of Minnesota Gopher Men's Hockey Coach Don Lucia as he prepares to retire after 19 seasons: Watch Congressman Emmer speak on the House floor here: Click here to watch. Full transcript: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize an outstanding person, and a friend. Don Lucia started playing hockey on outdoor rinks in northern Minnesota as a boy. After playing the game through high school and college, he became one of the most successful college coaches in the country. Recently, Coach Lucia announced he will retire from coaching the Minnesota Golden Gophers Men’s Hockey team after 19 seasons. During his tenure at Minnesota, Don’s teams regularly finished at the top of the WCHA and, more recently, won the Big Ten Conference four out of the past five years. His teams also made the NCAA play-offs thirteen times and won two national titles. As a player growing up in Grand Rapids, Minnesota, Don was a leader. He was disciplined and he made everyone around him better. As a coach, he not only built winning teams, he developed young men. Don is retiring as a true ambassador for the game. While he’ll no longer be coaching our Minnesota Gophers, I hope Don continues to be a leader for the game of hockey and our state for years to come. Don, thank you for leading our Gophers to victory time and time again. Good luck to you, your wonderful wife Joyce, and the rest of the Lucia family as you start the next chapter. I yield back.” ###
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement after opposing the $1.3 trillion Omnibus Appropriations Act for 2018: “While I am glad this package reflects priorities I fully support, including a well-deserved pay raise for our nation's military, resources for improving our infrastructure, fixing the “grain glitch,” and funding to combat the opioid crisis, I do not agree with tacking them onto this last minute 2,232-page legislation which balloons our national debt by $143 billion. That is why I voted ‘No’ on the bill and will work to advance polices that grow the economy without adding to our national debt.” Congressman Emmer voted in February against H.R. 1892, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, a deal which also increased the national debt and federal spending. Read more here. ###
03.14.2018	Emmer's STRESS Act will reauthorize the Farm and Ranch Assistance Network program to make mental health treatment more available for farmers WASHINGTON, DC - In an effort to turn the tide on the unacceptably high rates of suicide among farmers, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) introduced the Stemming the Tide of Rural Economic Stress and Suicide (STRESS) Act (H.R. 5259) to make mental health treatment more available for farmers, ranchers and agricultural workers. Due to the nature of their work and the lack of mental health treatment available, these individuals suffer from higher rates of depression and suicide. The most recent report from the Centers for Disease Control found rates of suicide among farmers are the highest of any occupation in the United States. “Farmers in Minnesota and across America are in the midst of a suicide crisis,” said Congressman Emmer, whose district encompasses areas of rural Minnesota including parts of Stearns, Benton, Wright and Sherburne Counties. “Those who work in agriculture face uniquely high-stress challenges ranging from social isolation to strong dependence on factors outside of their control. Combined with the incredible lack of mental health treatment available, our farmers have been left to suffer alone in the shadows without the help and care they need and deserve. Addressing the shortage of services available with the STRESS Act is a good first step to turn the tide on this crisis,” Emmer continued. Specifically, the STRESS Act will reauthorize the Farm and Ranch Stress Assistance Network (FRSAN) to give states needed resources to provide mental health services for farmers and ranchers. Though the program was first authorized in 2008, it did not receive funding and therefore lapsed. Emmer's legislation will renew FRSAN, restoring our nation's attention to Americans in farming who are disproportionately affected by high rates of suicide. “I am hopeful the STRESS Act will be included in the upcoming Farm Bill to ensure farmers get care before crisis and am grateful to the House Agricultural Committee for their support of this effort thus far,” concluded Emmer. Reps. Tom O'Halleran (D-AZ), Rick Nolan (D-MN), David Young (R-IA), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Rodney Davis (R-IL), Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM), John Katko (R-NY), John Faso (R-NY) and Chellie Pingree (D-ME) joined Emmer as orginal co-sponsors of the STRESS Act. Read the full text of H.R. 5259 here. Read more about Emmer's bill here. ###
03.02.2018	Washington, D.C. – Following the U.S. State Department’s announcement that the U.S. Embassy in Havana will continue to operate as an unaccompanied post, the bipartisan Congressional Cuba Working Group responded: “Today's announcement is disappointing. The safety of our diplomatic corps in Havana and their families remains paramount, but as long as the United States continues to limit the presence of its culture, values and beliefs on the island, there can be no reasonable expectation that our relationship and the lives of eleven million Cubans can or will improve. Limited consular and commercial services continue to hurt families and businesses both in Cuba and here at home; therefore, Secretary Tillerson should return our embassy to full operating status and allow our foreign service and consular officials to resume the great work they do for our country." More information about the Cuba Working Group: The Congressional Cuba Working Group is a bipartisan coalition of 22 members of Congress focused on improving the U.S.-Cuba relationship. In January, the Working Group sent a letter to Secretary Tillerson inquiring about the future of the U.S. Embassy in Havana as well as requesting an update on the investigation of the recent health incidents involving American personnel in Cuba. ###
02.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following the release of the President’s infrastructure plan, today Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) outlined specific positive provisions for Minnesota. The plan devotes new funding for Minnesota’s roads and bridges by providing $200 billion to incentivize $1.5 trillion in infrastructure investments across the nation. In addition, the plan prioritizes investments in rural America, returns decision-making to state and local governments, removes burdensome regulations, and invests in a modern workforce. “This plan contains important priorities for Minnesota, first and foremost our crumbling roads and bridges,” stated Congressman Emmer. “It also addresses our state’s rural areas, need for broadband access, and ensures those closest to our infrastructure - local decision makers - have the tools and resources to address our community’s most pressing improvements.” “As Congress works with this administration to rebuild America, I look forward to making certain that Minnesota’s transportation and infrastructure needs are met,” concluded Emmer. Additional information on the President’s infrastructure plan: Provides $50 billion towards a Rural Infrastructure Program to provide improvements in areas with less than 50,000 people in their population. Establishes a “Transformative Projects Program,” designed to support and enable new, innovative ideas that could produce dramatic public benefits. Creates regulatory certainty through a “One Agency, One Decision” review policy. Includes proposals to streamline regulatory permitting and review process. ###
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement on H.R. 1892, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018: “When I came to Congress I pledged to hold the line and reject our government’s default of adding to our national debt and adjusting spending levels in only one direction - up. “This deal contains positives: long overdue resources and stability for our nation’s military; important fixes to programs that our livestock and dairy producers rely on; the repeal of Obamacare’s Independent Advisory Payment Board, a group of unchecked bureaucrats who try to control the healthcare market; prioritization of maintenance backlogs at veteran hospitals; resources for fighting the opioid crisis and funding for infrastructure. "I remain committed to keeping the United States on a path to increased prosperity. The House was on the right track when we passed all twelve appropriations bills, including full funding for our national defense, back in September. This deal continues an unsustainable status quo and is not the best way forward for our country.” ###
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement after the U.S. Senate today confirmed Justice David Stras to serve on the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals: “Today I am delighted to congratulate Justice David Stras who has rightfully been confirmed to the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals. Justice Stras possesses a sharp legal aptitude in the areas of federal courts, constitutional law, and has a mindset for, in his own words, the ‘proper, limited role of the judiciary.’ “When President Trump nominated the Honorable David Stras last May, I was hoping for a swift and deliberate confirmation from my colleagues in the Senate. Unfortunately, this process has been drawn out for reasons completely separate from Justice Stras’ ability to defend the United States Constitution. Nevertheless, today is a day for celebration for Minnesota and our country, as one of our nation’s best legal minds will undoubtedly serve the Eighth Circuit well for decades to come.”Background on Justice Stras: Following his graduation from the University of Kansas School of Law, Justice David Stras built an impressive resume of experience during his legal career. He worked in support of the highest court in the land by clerking for the Honorable Clarence Thomas. He also has private sector experience, worked as a professor at the University of Minnesota Law School, and clerked for the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth and Ninth Circuits. Before his confirmation, Stras served on the Minnesota Supreme Court following his appointment by Governor Pawlenty in 2010 and his election in 2012. In January 2017, Emmer wrote a letter to then President-elect Trump in support of Justice Stras, encouraging his confirmation. Notably, Stras’ nomination to the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals garnered immense support from both sides of the aisle. In addition to receiving a “Well Qualified” rating from the American Bar Association, Stras’ nomination was supported by more than 100 Minnesota attorneys, members of the Minnesota Congressional Delegation, and his fellow Minnesota Supreme Court justices. ###
01.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement in response to Senate Democrats blocking appropriation legislation necessary to keep the government open: “Back in September, the House passed all twelve appropriations bills to fund the federal government for fiscal year 2018. Then on Thursday, we responsibly passed a straightforward bill to fund the government. We did our job. Senate Democrats did not. “Now, half of the Defense Department’s civilian workforce has to be furloughed. Our military reservists have to stop training. Funding for low income children’s health care will soon expire in states around the country, including Minnesota. Sadly, Democrats have prioritized a non-budget related issue over our nation’s national security and now millions of Americans are being penalized. “I am disappointed in any Senator or Congressman representing Minnesota who would continue to support this shutdown. There is simply no reason for its continuation. I hope that common sense and cooler heads will prevail, and Senate Democrats who shut the government down will open it back up. In the meantime I am committed to working for the people of the great state of Minnesota and the United States of America.”Background:On November 3, 2017 the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 3922 to fully fund the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). The measure failed in the Senate. On November 16, with a looming deadline for Minnesota’s CHIP funding, Congressman Emmer introduced the State CHIP Flexibility Act which would have allowed Minnesota to use carry-over funds to fund CHIP without being penalized. This measure also failed. On December 1, Emmer introduced the CHIP Stability Act (H.R. 4515) to keep Minnesota’s CHIP program afloat, which became law on December 8, 2017. ###
01.18.2018	The Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act will bring relief to community financial institutions and small lenders across the country. Washington, D.C. – Today the House passed Congressman Tom Emmer’s (MN-06) Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act (H.R. 2954) to bring regulatory relief to small community banks and credit unions across the country. Specifically, the legislation will eliminate burdensome compliance regulations imposed on small financial institutions by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), who in 2015 issued a rule requiring lenders to report more than double the data currently required. The new rule went into effect January 1, 2018. “Since the inception of Dodd-Frank, our local small banks and credit unions have been forced to, quite literally, pay the price for a crisis they didn’t create,” said Congressman Emmer, who first introduced the Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act in 2015. “I consistently hear from Minnesota’s small community banks and credit unions who are struggling to keep up with burdensome compliance costs. Some have significantly reduced the amount of mortgages or loans they originate, or even stopped offering mortgages altogether. Americans want the opportunity to achieve the American dream - to own a home, buy a car, or start a business. I am proud the House passed the Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act to provide relief for these institutions to help make that happen.” The original 1975 Home Mortgage Disclosure Act was enacted to eliminate discriminatory lending practices. Over the years, however, this law has become more and more expansive. Emmer’s Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act will provide needed relief, while ensuring that the original intent of the 1975 law is kept intact. H.R. 2954 will exempt from the CFPB's reporting and disclosure requirements institutions that have originated in each of the two preceding calendar years: fewer than 500 closed-end mortgage loans, and fewer than 500 open-end lines of credit. Read the full text of the Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act here. ###
01.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06), a member of the House Financial Services Committee, introduced the Preventing Excessive Mutual Fund Litigation Act to help protect the security of Americans' mutual fund investments, which are heavily regulated and too often the target of lengthy and costly lawsuits. “Whether it’s the recent college graduate starting to save in a 401(k) plan at her first job, the young family who wants to save to pay for their children’s education, or the elderly couple who wants to better manage their assets in retirement, mutual funds are essential tools to help invest in the American dream,” said Congressman Emmer. “By cutting down the number of frivolous lawsuits targeted at mutual funds, we can allow Americans to continue to make the investments they need for their future.” Mutual funds are the go-to financial product for millions of Americans. A recent study found that 55 million households in America own mutual funds. These funds are heavily regulated and are often subject to excessive and unfounded lawsuits known as Section 36(b) suits. Abuse of these Section 36(b) suits can cost tens of millions of dollars and divert countless hours to address paperwork and administrative concerns that fund advisors and directors would otherwise be using to improve the returns for their investors. Although the Supreme Court in 2010 reinforced a standard known as the “Gartenberg Standard” which has been used by courts for over 25 years to assess claims of excessive fees – and regardless of the fact that none of the Section 36(b) lawsuits brought in the past 45 years have resulted in a final judgment against the adviser – excessive and non-meritorious suits continue to be filed. Emmer's bill seeks to curb excessive litigation by requiring plaintiffs in these Section 36(b) suits to spell out the factual basis for their claims at the outset and support their claims with “clear and convincing evidence.” This standard is used when dealing with disputes under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) as well as other federal laws, and would enable courts to terminate lawsuits that lack merit on motions to dismiss, before they reach the expensive pre-trial discovery phase of the litigation. Read the full text of H.R. 4738 here. ###
01.04.2018	(Courtesy of the Congressional Western Caucus) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Paul A. Gosar D.D.S. (AZ-04), Majority Whip Steve Scalise (LA-01), Natural Resources Committee Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01), Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway (TX-11), Chief Infrastructure and Forestry Officer Bruce Westerman (AR-04) and Western Caucus Members Randy Weber (TX-14), Ralph Abraham (LA-05), Doug LaMalfa (CA-01), Jeff Duncan (SC-03), Mike Johnson (LA-04), Garret Graves (LA-06), Louie Gohmert (TX-01), Doug Lamborn (CO-05), Andy Biggs (AZ-05) and Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statements after the United States Department of the Interior (DOI) and the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) announced a Draft Proposed Program (DPP) for the 2019-2024 National Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Oil and Gas Leasing Program to increase available acreage and leases for responsible offshore oil and gas exploration and production: Congressman Weber stated, “I applaud the president and this administration for focusing on American energy dominance. Our nation is filled with untapped potential. It is incumbent on us to responsibly increase our offshore oil and gas exploration and production. I firmly believe this is entirely within our reach.” “The Trump administration’s announcement to allow expanded offshore oil and gas exploration and drilling is welcomed news. This decision will lead to more jobs for hard-working Louisianians anxious to return to work in the industry, provide greater economic stimulation in communities that rely on energy production for survival, and further our goal of American energy independence,” said Congressman Abraham.Congressman LaMalfa said, “President Trump and Secretary Zinke are working together to expand American energy production and create American jobs. This draft plan promotes responsible offshore energy production and will include input from Congress and local stakeholders. This is an important step towards our ultimate goal of American energy self-sustainability and putting Americans back to work. I look forward to seeing this program improve our nation’s energy independence and create jobs for hardworking Americans.” “The announcement coming out of the Trump Administration today is tremendous news for American energy independence, economic development, and job creation. The Obama Administration’s shortsighted offshore plan set the U.S. behind our competitors around the world and trampled efforts to move toward energy independence. It’s great to see President Trump correct this misguided policy and replace it with an aggressive, bold agenda to ensure the U.S. is the leading nation for energy security which is critical in our increasingly volatile world. Opening up U.S. waters for drilling, including off the coast of South Carolina, will expand access to critical resources which will greatly benefit South Carolinians and our nation as a whole. As a longtime advocate for offshore energy and a former member of the U.S. Department of Interior’s Outer Continental Shelf’s Five Year Planning Subcommittee, I know this decision will move the U.S. to the forefront of global energy security and closer to achieving the goal of energy independence,” said Congressman Jeff Duncan. Congressman Mike Johnson stated, “The Trump administration’s decision to allow enhanced exploration, leasing and development within the Outer Continental Shelf, previously closed to such activities, prioritizes home-grown energy production and puts the United States one step closer to achieving energy dominance. I look forward to the many benefits Louisiana and other coastal states will see from this all-of-the-above energy strategy.” “After the ban was lifted on oil exports last year, we’ve seen worldwide demand for American energy explode. Secretary Zinke and President Trump’s decision to seize on America’s energy potential is a smart step towards furthering our nation’s position as a global energy leader,” said Congressman Conaway. Congressman Garret Graves stated, “Let’s be clear – preventing energy production in the United States makes us reliant upon foreign energy sources, sends hundreds of billions of American dollars overseas and exports jobs to other countries. This energy plan is different. It begins to maximize domestic energy resources, creates jobs at home and decreases our reliance upon foreign energy. The United States has one of the safest, most environmentally-sensitive conventional energy production programs in the world. Eliminating barriers to domestic energy production as envisioned in this plan is a step in the right direction.” “It is truly exciting and encouraging that we have a president that is doing all he can to make us completely energy independent. Being energy independent will ensure that we can never be blackmailed by totalitarian nations who provide us any energy. Under this current administration, we are headed on a road that will establish this country as one of the strongest energy superpowers. This move is an important step forward to pursuing our nation’s energy potential. It is refreshing to know that we have a leader in the White House who values the assets this nation has to offer and is willing to take bold, yet common sense steps to both protect and benefit the American people,” said Congressman Gohmert. Congressman Scalise stated, “Today’s announcement by Secretary Zinke represents yet another positive step the Trump Administration has taken in the direction of American energy dominance. With this program, my constituents in southeast Louisiana whose jobs depend on the energy industry can rest easy knowing that oil and gas development is a priority for this administration. With increased exploration and production in the Gulf of Mexico and beyond, we will be able to create more jobs and continue to receive the revenue sharing that is vital to rebuilding our coast. I look forward to working with Secretary Zinke and President Trump to ensure that our offshore oil and gas industry continues to be strong.” “The previous administration’s approach to offshore development started from the premise of considering ‘as little as possible.’ The Trump administration starts from the premise of considering ‘as much as possible.’ American energy dominance will only be achieved by taking the latter approach. I look forward to continuing to work with the Administration to responsibly develop American energy, spur job growth and maximize revenues to the benefit of taxpayers,” said Congressman Rob Bishop. “North American energy independence should be a top priority for the United States. Today’s announcement by Secretary Zinke is a positive step in that direction. As he noted, not all offshore areas are appropriate for drilling, but proper study and public comment will help the Interior Department as it explores areas for safe, regulated exploration and development. While energy independence should be our next step, energy dominance should be our final goal. This allows not only our citizens and businesses to thrive, but frees our allies from purchasing oil and gas from our enemies,” stated Congressman Westerman. Congressman Lamborn said, “Offshore drilling uses our nation's abundant natural resources to our economy's advantage. The economic boost will create more jobs and help entire communities thrive with a strong connection to drilling. Instead of heavily relying on foreign countries to supply the United States with fuel, we can restore American independence by using our own. This will drastically cut costs for the average American. These measures are good for our nation's workers, consumers, and economy.” “Once again President Trump and his administration are keeping the promises he made in his campaign. I applaud the proposed plan for oil and gas exploration in the Outer Continental Shelf. This program is yet another step in the right direction to revive America’s energy independence. Oil and gas exploration in these regions will benefit job growth, our economy, and national security,” stated Congressman Biggs.Congressman Emmer said, “Once again, this administration put America first by further severing our reliance on foreign countries for essential resources. Today’s action by the President echoes the Department of Interior’s decision to support mining rights in Minnesota and enhance access to our nation’s resources while creating jobs, boosting local economies, and advancing national security.” Chairman Gosar concluded, “The Trump Administration’s aggressive plan to unlock offshore oil and gas resources will move America closer to energy independence and dominance. Unlike the previous Administration, which aimed to stifle and undermine responsible oil and gas production at every opportunity, President Trump and Secretary Zinke understand that developing these resources is an important part of a true all-of-the-above energy strategy.” Background:Courtesy of the Department of Interior U.S. Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke today announced the next step for responsibly developing the National Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Program (National OCS Program) for 2019-2024, which proposes to make over 90 percent of the total OCS acreage and more than 98 percent of undiscovered, technically recoverable oil and gas resources in federal offshore areas available to consider for future exploration and development. By comparison, the current program puts 94 percent of the OCS off limits. Earlier this year, 155 Members of both the U.S. House and U.S. Senate sent letters to Secretary Zinke in support of a new 5-year plan that recognizes America’s potential for energy dominance. The Draft Proposed Program (DPP) includes 47 potential lease sales in 25 of the 26 planning areas – 19 sales off the coast of Alaska, 7 in the Pacific Region, 12 in the Gulf of Mexico, and 9 in the Atlantic Region. This is the largest number of lease sales ever proposed for the National OCS Program’s 5-year lease schedule. BOEM currently manages about 2,900 active OCS leases, covering almost 15.3 million acres – the vast majority in the Gulf of Mexico. In fiscal year 2016, oil and gas leases on the OCS accounted for approximately 18 percent of domestic oil production and 4 percent of domestic natural gas production. This production generates billions of dollars in revenue for state and local governments and the U.S. taxpayer, while supporting hundreds of thousands of jobs. For more information about the National OCS Program, including maps, please visit: http://www.boem.gov/National-Program/ Courtesy Western Caucus The DPP announced today proposes an aggressive 5-year plan that significantly increase available acreage and the number off leases for responsible offshore oil and gas exploration and production in the Outer Continental Shelf. This plan will move our national offshore energy policy away from an overly restrictive and misguided approach towards energy independence. It is Important to note that this is just the draft plan, it can be modified and it will take a significant amount of time to complete as the agency will hold meetings in affected states with stakeholders, brief members of Congress, hold a public comment period and do significant outreach. In April, President Trump issued Executive Order 13795, lifting the ban on offshore oil and gas exploration and production in the Arctic and Atlantic. Read more HERE. Secretary Zinke subsequently issued Secretarial Order 3350 which called for enhancing OCS energy exploration, leasing, and development as well as establishing regulatory certainty for OCS activities. Under the previous Obama plan, 94% of all acreage was off limits and only 15 potential lease sales were proposed. President Reagan proposed 41 and 42 lease sales during his Administration. The Trump Administration proposed 47 lease sales and opening up over 90 percent of the total OCS acreage in today’s DPP. In November, the House Committee on Natural Resources passed Whip Scalise's bill, H.R. 4239, the Secure American Energy Act. This legislation seeks to increase access to oil and gas resources in the OCS. Read more HERE. ###
12.22.2017	Washington, D.C. – Following the U.S. Department of Interior’s decision today reversing the Obama Administration’s improper denial of two mineral leases in Minnesota, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement: “Minnesotans send our gratitude to the Department of the Interior for their action to reverse course set by the Obama Administration and allow our great state to regain control of our mineral leases to advance responsible mining. This action today, coupled with the passage of the MINER Act last month, demonstrate a commitment to unwind the politically motivated actions by the previous Administration and put Minnesota and the nation on a path to prosperity for local economies and communities for generations to come.” CLICK HERE to learn more about Congressman Emmer's MINER Act. ###
12.22.2017	(Courtesy of the Congressional Western Caucus) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Paul A. Gosar D.D.S. (AZ-04) and Western Caucus Member Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statements after the United States Department of the Interior’s Office of the Solicitor issued a new legal opinion concluding that Twin Metals Minnesota has a non-discretionary right to a third renewal of its two federal mineral leases held in Northeast Minnesota for more than 50 years and determined that the BLM does not have discretion to deny the company’s renewal application: Congressman Emmer said, “Minnesotans send our gratitude to the Department of the Interior for their action to reverse course set by the Obama Administration and allow our great state to regain control of our mineral leases to advance responsible mining. This action today, coupled with the passage of the MINER Act last month, demonstrate a commitment to unwind the politically motivated actions by the previous Administration and put Minnesota and the nation on a path to prosperity for local economies and communities for generations to come.” Western Caucus and House Committee on Natural Resources Subcommittee on Energy and Minerals Chairman Paul Gosar said, “Today’s legal opinion confirms that President Obama and his agency minions had no legal authority to cancel two mineral leases in order to appease anti-mining extremists. I thank Secretary Zinke, Deputy Secretary Bernhardt and their team as well as President Trump and his staff at the White House for hearing the concerns of the people of Minnesota and working diligently to overturn the Obama Administration’s lawless land grab.” Background: Courtesy of the Department of the Interior: Today, the United States Department of the Interior’s Office of the Solicitor issued a new legal opinion concluding that Twin Metals Minnesota has a non-discretionary right to a third renewal of its two hardrock mining leases, located in the Superior National Forest in northern Minnesota. The new M-Opinion (Memorandum Opinion) M-37049 reverses and replaces a prior opinion on the topic which was issued in March 2016. Under the new legal opinion, the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) will work together with the surface management agency, USDA Forest Service, to reconsider a 2016 decision in which the BLM denied Twin Metals’ pending lease renewal application. The agencies will conduct the appropriate environmental analysis under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) to make a final agency decision on the application and to identify appropriate terms and conditions for surface protection. The M-Opinion is available HERE.Courtesy of the Western Caucus On November 30, the House took action to reject the Obama Administration’s Minnesota land grab by passing H.R. 3905, the Minnesota's Economic Rights in the Superior National Forest Act. The full press release can be found HERE. On January 19th, 2017, the day before President Trump was sworn in, the previous administration published a 234,328-acre federal mineral withdrawal application in the Federal Register, to restrict for a 20-year moratorium, lands within the Superior National Forest in Northeast Minnesota. This action immediately placed this vast area off limits to future mineral leasing, exploration and potential development for two years while the 20-year withdrawal is being considered. The total withdrawal application boundary spans approximately 425,000 acres, including 95,000 acres of state school trust fund lands. In conjunction with this massive mineral withdrawal, the Obama Administration’s Bureau of Land Management inappropriately rejected Twin Metals Minnesota’s application to renew two hardrock mineral leases in Minnesota’s Superior National Forest – leases that were signed in 1966 and renewed without controversy in 1989 and 2004. These bureaucratic decisions could decimate local economies, stifle job creation as well as cause significant harm to K-12 education and mining in Minnesota. These were political, anti-mining and anti-education actions taken by the Obama Administration. The University of Minnesota-Duluth estimates the creation of 12,000 construction jobs and 5,000 long-term mining jobs if mining projects already being pursued in Duluth Complex are allowed to move forward. These are good-paying jobs, as the average annual mining wage in Minnesota was $78,635 in 2015. Education will be significantly harmed as Minnesota is projected to lose up to $3 billion in royalty revenues for the State’s Permanent School Trust Fund that would support nearly 900,000 K-12 students statewide if the withdrawal application and cancelled leases are not rejected. To date, Twin Metals has invested upward of $400 million – a significant investment – in reliance on the two federal mineral leases that the BLM executed with the company's predecessors and renewed each time they expired. Today’s action was the first of three actions by the Trump Administration that need to occur to reverse the Obama land grab. ###
12.22.2017	“Abby’s Act” will help law enforcement prosecute sexual assault, improve care and treatment for victims Bill was inspired by Abby Honold, a former University of Minnesota student and rape survivor, Officer Kevin Randolph, who helped Abby win her case against her perpetrator, and Linda Walther, the sexual assault nurse who examined Abby minutes after her attack WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) teamed up with Reps. Karen Handel (GA-06), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), Ann McLane Kuster (NH-02), Debbie Wasserman Shultz (FL-23) and Tim Walz (MN-01) to introduce the Abby Honold Act in an effort to help law enforcement prosecute sexual assault while improving care and treatment for victims. Specifically, the bill will use existing funds to train law enforcement in evidence-based, trauma-informed interview techniques to prevent re-traumatization of the victim, improve communication between victims and law enforcement, and ensure accurate and complete information is collected and submitted to law enforcement. Minnesota Senator Amy Klobuchar introduced companion legislation in the Senate. “Sexual assault is a crime and it is vital for law enforcement to have accurate and complete information to prosecute it as such,” said Rep. Emmer. “For Abby, and for the thousands of victims who experience trauma, this is a key part of their recovery process, as is a compassionate response in the immediate aftermath. We are taking an important step forward to provide better treatment to sexual assault victims in crisis and making certain it is treated like the heinous crime it is.” “I am proud to have helped introduce this important bill, ensuring that victims of sexual assault across the country will have the best possible support from their local law enforcement, and that these individuals will be provided the care they desperately need and deserve,” said Rep. Handel. “Our bipartisan legislation will ensure that our communities are safer, and dedicated to smart, compassionate policing. We're aiming to give officers in every precinct and every state the tools to help survivors of rape and sexual assault seek justice, without being re-victimized through the investigation process,” said Rep. Jayapal. “This bill cannot take away the trauma that survivors have experienced, but it can ensure that police have the best tools to work with trauma survivors and that survivors’ voices are fully heard. I'm honored to work with my colleagues on making this legislation a reality.” “Survivors of sexual violence deserve all the support we can provide and that means promoting better trauma-informed training for law enforcement and other personnel who assist survivors. I'm proud to cosponsor this common sense legislation that will make necessary improvements in training for those working with people when they are at their most vulnerable,” said Rep. Kuster. “Abby Honold's courage and determination to help sexual assault victims across the nation will have a real impact on the way law enforcement officials respond to these heinous crimes. Victims of sexual assault who are brave enough to come forward and report an attack need to know that police are ready to hear their stories. This legislation makes it more likely that perpetrators of sexual assault will be swiftly brought to justice,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “It's time to end the re-traumatization of assault survivors who step forward seeking help, support, and justice,” said Rep. Walz. “That’s why I'm proud to join with my colleagues to introduce the Abby Honold Act. This bill will help train law enforcement, first responders, university officials, and others who interface with victims of sexual violence how to use best practices and trauma-informed techniques.” When trauma is experienced, the victim often goes into shock and the part of the brain that normally records events, the prefrontal cortex, shuts down. Unfortunately, most interview techniques are developed to specifically tap into the prefrontal cortex. For trauma victims, memory recall and accuracy of events and details will be distorted, often leading to suspicion of the victim. Abby’s Act is an important first step in ensuring that victims of sexual assault receive better treatment, as well as equipping law enforcement with accurate and complete information to prosecute the crime. “I’m in awe of Abby’s ability to turn an incredibly horrific experience into something that could help other survivors,” said Senator Klobuchar. “We can and should do more for survivors, including ensuring law enforcement has the skills and resources to avoid re-traumatization and effectively see investigations through to prosecution using the most sensitive and effective techniques.” “I am incredibly grateful to Senator Klobuchar and Congressman Emmer for introducing my bill. I never would have imagined that I could have made something good come out of what happened to me. Victims of sexual violence deserve better when and if they report to police, and law enforcement deserves better training and resources for sex crimes,” said Abby Honold.CLICK HERE to read the bill. ###
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) announced its intent to provide relief for community financial institutions seeking to comply with excessive Dodd-Frank data collection and reporting requirements. This action is in line with Congressman Tom Emmer’s (MN-06) Home Mortgage Reporting Relief Act (H.R. 4648) which would have amended the law to provide small businesses and banks with this regulatory relief. “Community banks and Credit Unions in Minnesota and around the country are cheering this decision,” said Congressman Emmer. “Now, rather than navigating through red rape, these small and medium-size lenders can focus on doing what they do best: helping Minnesota families achieve the American dream. I thank Director Mulvaney for his leadership at the CFPB on this issue and look forward to continue working with this administration to keep slashing burdensome regulations to allow the American economy to flourish.”CLICK HERE for more information on the CFPB’s decision.CLICK HERE to read the letter Emmer recently led to the CFPB on this issue.CLICK HERE for more information on Emmer’s Home Mortgage Reporting Relief Act. ###
12.21.2017	(Courtesy of the Congressional Western Caucus) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Paul A. Gosar D.D.S. (AZ-04), Vice-Chairman for Policy and Appropriations Mark Amodei (NV-02), Vice-Chairman for Indian Affairs and Oceans Don Young (AK-At Large), Chief Infrastructure and Forestry Officer Bruce Westerman (AR-04), House Committee on Natural Resources Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) and Western Caucus Members Mike Johnson (LA-04), Doug Lamborn (CO-05), Doug LaMalfa (CA-01), Adrian Smith (NE-03), Jason Smith (MO-08), Greg Gianforte (MT-At Large), Andy Biggs (AZ-05) and Tom Emmer (MN-06) issued the following statements following President Donald J. Trump's executive order to break America's dependence on foreign minerals and U.S. Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke's secretarial order to begin work on identifying immediate domestic sources for critical minerals: Chairman Gosar said, “Our reliance on foreign nations of questionable stability and demonstrated hostile intentions towards the United States for critical minerals constitutes a serious security threat. This situation has come about even though the United States could readily procure the vast majority of the 23 minerals identified in the USGS Report domestically and sustainably, were we only to choose to greenlight development of our bounty of mineral resources. At a recent hearing of the Energy and Mineral Resources Subcommittee which I chair, I emphasized the extent to which arbitrary mineral withdrawals and a federal bureaucracy loathe to authorize mineral projects have brought us to this precarious juncture. But there is a way forward. I applaud President Trump and Secretary Zinke for taking action to advance American energy dominance and strengthen our national security.” Congressman Amodei stated, “Having introduced critical minerals legislation that has passed out of the House the last three Congresses in a row – and watching that bill run straight into Senate paralysis – I appreciate the fact that the Administration has taken the lead on this issue and is moving the ball toward the goal line.” “The unique and resource rich geology in Alaska makes the state an excellent candidate for finding critical minerals,” said Congressman Don Young. “This strategic decision by President Trump will ensure that the U.S. is more self-sufficient and that our military can operate without risk of losing access to these crucial minerals while helping create jobs and boost both the Alaskan and national economy.” Congressman Westerman stated, “America’s dependence on foreign sources of materials for manufacturing has been a concern among leaders in Congress, the executive branch, and industry for many decades. President Trump’s action addresses those concerns and puts America on the road to mineral independence. I appreciate the President and Secretary Zinke’s leadership in addressing this important security and economic challenge.” “Tapping into our abundant domestic supply of critical minerals is good defense policy that has the added bonus of creating jobs and economic growth. These actions underscore President Trump’s commitment to responsibly develop more of our own resources and reverse America’s dependency on foreign sources. I look forward to continuing our work with the administration to achieve this shared objective,” said Congressman Rob Bishop. Congressman Mike Johnson stated, “The president’s decision marks an important turning point in prioritizing our nation’s sovereignty and security. America’s mineral resources are among our greatest assets and our independence in this area is key to strengthening our national defense. Once again, President Trump and Secretary Zinke have shown real leadership in reducing U.S. dependence on foreign resources.” Congressman Lamborn said, "Today less than half the minerals American manufacturers need come from our own soil. That fosters dependence on foreign aid and poses a significant problem for national security. While serving as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources for six years, this is an issue I worked on intensively. President Trump's Executive Order changes course for the better. We will no longer rely on foreign competitors for vital minerals needed to keep our country safe. Secretary Zinke's order backs the president's decision by increasing American mineral production. The new administration is putting America first and making American security the top priority. Putting critical mineral control back in the hands of domestic companies ensures a safer, better tomorrow." “America’s reliance on foreign nations for important minerals and resources that our military needs puts our national security in jeopardy. We must make it easier to identify and produce these minerals so that everything our armed forces need can be made right here on our soil. I support the President’s decision to issue this Executive Order that will create jobs as well as streamline and safeguard our supply lines,” Congressman LaMalfa remarked. Congressman Adrian Smith stated, “New efforts to mine rare earth minerals in places like Elk Creek, Nebraska, demonstrate we are capable of mining and refining these critical inputs for 21st century technology at home. I applaud President Trump and Secretary Zinke for recognizing the need to grow our economy by utilizing resources which already exist within our borders.” “The number one responsibility of your government is to keep you and your loved ones safe. Energy security – knowing we can do everything from building the best equipment for our military to putting gas in our cars and heating our homes – is a major part of that safety and security. But for too long, the government has been dependent on foreign countries supplying us with these critical resources when we have them right here in southeast Missouri. President Trump’s action to change this will make us less reliant on countries like Russia and China who don’t have our best interests at heart and will secure America’s energy independence while bringing jobs back to the United States,” said Congressman Jason Smith. Congressman Gianforte stated, “Montana is home to the only platinum and palladium production in North America. Rare earth elements and platinum metals are integral parts of high-tech components, from batteries to computer chips to display screens to engines, that are vital for our economy and national defense. With Russia controlling much of the world’s platinum group production and China controlling nearly 80 percent of rare earth production, greater domestic production of these materials would protect us from relying on other nations. Opening a mine in the U.S. is difficult, and this order will improve the process. I applaud the efforts of the president and look forward to making it easier to create high-paying mining jobs in Montana.” “By increasing exploration and production of key minerals in the United States, President Trump has kept his promise to prioritize our national strategic interests. Arizonans will see expanded job growth and trade opportunities. I applaud this administration for protecting our affairs,” said Congressman Biggs. “Like so many states across this great nation, Minnesota is fully prepared to step up and help unleash America’s full mining potential,” concluded Congressman Emmer whose MINER Act, which reverses the misguided, last-minute actions of the Obama Administration to stop any exploration of one of the most valuable precious metal deposits in the world, passed the House last month. “This will add jobs and bring economic prosperity; improve national security and decrease our reliance on foreign countries like Russia and China; and enhance the lives of every American. Further, our current environmental regulations ensure that we can secure critical minerals while protecting our nation’s big, beautiful landscape. I am glad this administration agrees sound economic, environmental, and security policy can and should coexist. I commend Secretary Zinke and the President for their work to support our miners, streamline the permitting and review process, and enhance our national defense with this important order today.” Background: Courtesy of the White House Yesterday, President Donald J. Trump signed an Executive Order to reverse the decades-long trend of increasing dependence on foreign imports of critical minerals that are essential to American prosperity and national security. The comprehensive order aims to identify new sources of critical minerals, ensure miners and producers have access to the best data, and streamline the leasing and permitting process to expedite production, reprocessing and recycling of minerals at all levels of the supply chain. Courtesy of the Department of the Interior: Today, U.S. Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke signed a secretarial order directing the initial steps to producing the first nationwide geological and topographical survey of the United States in modern history. The order also directs Interior bureaus to begin work on identifying immediate domestic sources for critical minerals. Earlier this week, the Department of the Interior and the U.S. Geological Survey released a report that detailed the extent to which the United States is fully, majorly, or partially dependent upon foreign competitors and even adversaries for our supply of "critical minerals." The report identified 23 of the minerals that are most-needed to sustain our national defense and economy and are used in manufacturing everything from batteries and computer chips to equipment used by our military. The report shows a troubling trend of foreign dependency. Click HERE and HERE to read DOI’s press releases on these matters. Courtesy of the Western Caucus On December 12, 2017, the House Committee on Natural Resources Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources held an oversight hearing on the arduous and uncertain regulatory scheme governing domestic mineral development and resulting impacts on America’s economic and national security. Panel members discussed America’s reliance on foreign minerals and the benefits of increasing domestic production. Each of the last three Congresses, the House has passed Vice-Chairman Amodei’s National Strategic and Critical Minerals Production Act. This legislation sought to address delays in the permitting of American mining projects, which can currently take seven to ten years or longer. This bill required the lead permitting agency to identify a project lead to coordinate with all involved, set and adhere to deadlines, establish clear goals, and track progress. It also streamlined judicial review and litigation. ###
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) commended U.S. Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke for signing a groundbreaking secretarial order directing the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) to conduct the first nationwide geological and topographical survey of the United States in modern history. Secretary Zinke’s action followed the President’s executive order to identify new sources of critical minerals, ensure miners and producers have access to the best data, and streamline the leasing and permitting process to expedite production, reprocessing and recycling of minerals. "I commend Secretary Zinke and the President for their work to support our miners, streamline the permitting and review process, and enhance our national defense with this important order today,” said Congressman Emmer, whose MINER Act, which passed the House last month, protects Minnesota’s right to explore and, if environmentally appropriate, mine valuable precious metals.Emmer continued: “Minnesota, like so many states across this great nation, is fully prepared to step up and help unleash America’s full mining potential which will improve national security, add jobs, bring economic prosperity and enhance the lives of every American. Our current environmental regulations ensure that we can secure critical minerals while protecting our nation’s big, beautiful landscape, and I am glad that this administration agrees sound economic, environmental, and security policy can and should coexist." "Right now the United States is almost completely reliant on foreign adversaries and competitors for many of the minerals that are deemed critical for our national and economic security. As both a former military commander and geologist, I know the risk this presents to our nation," said Secretary Ryan Zinke. "The problem is, we can't fix the problem if we don't know where the minerals are within our own borders. Other nations are far ahead of us with mapping of their mineral resources, leading to private sector investment overseas rather than right here at home. Drafting a complete topographical and geographic survey of the United States is exactly the kind of task the U.S.G.S. was created to do." The United States is heavily reliant on imports of certain minerals that are vital to our national security and economic prosperity. According to a recent report from the USGS, the United States imports nearly 90 percent of the platinum, palladium and other critical elements used to make integrated circuits, computer hard drives, and catalytic converters. This dependency on foreign nations, including Russia and China, creates a strategic vulnerability for the U.S. if supplies of these key minerals were disrupted by foreign government action, natural disasters, or other events. There are several domestic deposits of these resources throughout the United States, including Minnesota which sits atop vast quantities of untapped copper, nickel, platinum, palladium and other critical minerals. Access to these reserves however has been limited by a lack of comprehensive surveys, permitting delays, and litigation concerns. Read the full USGS report here. Read Secretary Zinke’s Secretarial Order here. Learn more about Emmer’s MINER Act here. ###
12.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement after Congress passed, and sent to the President's desk for signature, a new United States tax code: “This is a historic day for Minnesota and for America. The President's signature on these significant reforms to our tax code will deliver major tax-relief for the middle-class, allow businesses around the country to create new opportunities for every American and boost our nation’s economy. Minnesotans will not only see bigger paychecks starting next year, they will be able to keep more of that hard-earned money. This revamp of our nation’s broken tax code is long overdue. “But our work has only just begun. With a better tax code in place and our continued efforts to roll back thousands of harmful regulations, the next step is addressing reckless government spending. Our national debt is upwards of a whopping $20 trillion and continues to skyrocket every day. As we move into next year, we will start reforming government spending to ensure future generations of Minnesotans live in a more prosperous America.” To read the full legislative text of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, click here.To read the policy highlights of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, click here. ###
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement after he supported, and the House passed, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1) which now moves to the Senate for consideration this evening: “This is a major victory for Minnesotans and Americans across the country. Today the House put the American people first, delivering major tax relief and letting middle-class families keep more of what they earn. By lowering individual taxes, expanding the child tax credit, doubling the standard deduction, providing relief from the Death Tax, and letting businesses create opportunities for millions across the country, we are delivering on our promise to get the American economy back to its full strength, with the American people, not the government, in the driver’s seat. “I encourage my colleagues in the Senate to pass this bill so our President can sign it into law.” ###
12.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) and Congressman Randy Hultgren (IL-14) continue to stand up for small businesses and community banks, introducing the Home Mortgage Reporting Relief Act (H.R. 4648) this week. The bill gives community banks and credit unions additional time to comply with new, excessive data collection and reporting requirements required by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). “I consistently hear from community banks and credit unions throughout the Sixth District that the CFPB’s new rules will make it harder for them to do what they do best: help Minnesota families achieve the American dream,” said Congressman Emmer. “While we work to blunt the impact of these burdensome regulations, this bill will provide Main Street banks additional time to comply with the new rule so that they can focus on getting Americans into new homes in a timely manner rather than figuring out how to navigate through more red tape.” “The new Home Mortgage Disclosure Act requirements again demonstrate that the CFPB does not understand our community banks and credit unions. Just as one burdensome mortgage rule is finalized, our community financial institutions have to deal with a new rule. This bill will give community banks and credit unions some breathing room so they can refocus on meeting the financial needs of families and small businesses in Illinois,” said Congressman Hultgren. The Home Mortgage Reporting Relief Act: Provides a one year safe harbor for financial institutions from having to comply with the data collection and reporting requirements, respectively, issued under the CFPB’s October 2015 and September 2017 amendments to the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (Regulation C). Restricts the CFPB’s ability to make any of the new data collected and reported publicly available. Under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA) the CFPB’s revised Regulation C final rule will go into effect on January 1, 2018. The final rule requires banks and credit unions to collect 48 additional unique data fields on any mortgage loan they originate and report this data to the CFPB. This change more than doubles the number of data fields currently required to be collected and will result in small community mortgage lenders to compile a total of 110 data points in order to process a mortgage. These new data fields will cause community financial institutions to divert resources to deal with the additional bureaucratic red tape, increasing costs and the time it takes to process a mortgage for home buyers. Further, the ultimate publication of this data by the CFPB raises numerous consumer privacy concerns. According to the Department of Treasury’s June 2017 report A Financial System That Creates Economic Opportunities Banks and Credit Unions: “The new reporting requirements have created two concerns among market participants, both related to the public disclosure of the data. The new fields include additional borrower-specific data, which taken with existing HMDA fields and publicly available information, could be used to determine the specific identity of a borrower, raising privacy concerns. Additionally, the new fields contain loan-specific features, including mortgage note rate and fees. The new HMDA loan level data could help competitors re-engineer a lender’s pricing models, which could cause competitive harm to the lender.” Click here to read the full report. Congressman Emmer is a member of the House Financial Services Committee. Additional resources: Emmer Letter to CFPB Acting Director Mick Mulvaney on new data rule (11/27/17)Emmer Introduces Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act (6/21/17)Emmer Introduces Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act (4/20/16) ###
12.13.2017	WASHINGTON D.C.– Congressman Collin C. Peterson led a bipartisan letter with Senator Amy Klobuchar, Rep. Tim Walz, Rep. Betty McCollum, Rep. Rick Nolan, Rep. Tom Emmer, and Rep. Keith Ellison urging U.S. Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) to delay the announced reduction of service hours in Lancaster and Roseau Ports of Entry (POEs), and to create a pilot program using proven technology to increase service for non-commercial crossings at those sites. CBP surprised residents living in northwest Minnesota by announcing they would be dramatically reducing service hours in the Lancaster and Roseau POEs and shift officers to Pembina, ND. Residents attending town halls voiced their strong objections to the reduction of service citing concerns about the impact it would have on the region’s economy. In the letter, the lawmakers identify the pilot program already underway at the NW Angle as a model for what can be created at the Lancaster and Roseau POEs. “We write to urge U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to initiate a pilot program that utilizes existing virtual interview process technology at the Lancaster and Roseau Ports of Entry (POEs) and delay the reduction in service hours until the pilot can be launched.” The lawmakers continued, “with slight infrastructure improvements, Lancaster and Roseau POEs will be able to safely and efficiently process passenger vehicles twenty-four hours a day without rerouting them through inconvenient ports in Pembina or Warroad.” If CBP agrees to expand the use of this technology for these ports of entry, it could have wide-ranging benefits for Minnesota. The benefits of the new technology include establishing an efficient way for area residents and tourists to check-in with CBP officials remotely while expanding resources for local businesses and resort owners. Current hours of service at the Port of Lancaster are 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. daily. The CBP has announced that they will reduce the hours of service, operating from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. between October 1 and April 30 and 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. between May 1 through September 30. Travelers wishing to cross into the U.S. when the port is closed may cross at the Pembina, North Dakota POE which is open 24 hours and located approximately 30 miles west of Lancaster. The current hours of service at the Port of Roseau are 8 a.m. to midnight. The new hours of operation will be 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. year round. Travelers wishing to cross into the U.S. after hours may cross at the Warroad, Minnesota POE which is also open 24 hours and located approximately 21 miles east of Roseau. Read the letter below: Dear Executive Assistant Commissioner Todd C. Owen: We write to urge U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to initiate a pilot program that utilizes existing virtual interview process technology at the Lancaster and Roseau Ports of Entry (POEs) and delay the reduction in service hours until the pilot can be launched. We believe that a pilot at these ports would result in a mutually beneficial situation for local residents that depend on reliable access to these POEs and the agency which has expressed a need for more officers at the Pembina, North Dakota port. We are pleased with the current pilot program that is underway at the Northwest Angle, a remote and unique area in Minnesota which will greatly benefit from virtual interview process technology. The mechanics and model of this pilot can also be applied in a cost-effective manner to the Lancaster and Roseau POEs, which are updated facilities that already possess license plate readers. With slight infrastructure improvements, Lancaster and Roseau POEs will be able to safely and efficiently process passenger vehicles twenty-four hours a day without rerouting them through inconvenient ports in Pembina or Warroad. When CBP announced the agency would reduce service hours at Lancaster and Roseau POEs, two town hall meetings were held on November 6th and November 2nd, 2017. At the Lancaster town hall alone, a petition was signed by 495 constituents who agreed with the statement that the reduction in service hours will have a negative economic, financial, and personal effect on those who operate businesses, travel, and live near these POEs. The pilot program we are advocating for in this letter could significantly address many of these concerns. We understand CBP’s overall goal is to optimize service along our nation’s land borders in a fiscally responsible manner. The Planning, Program Analysis, and Evaluation Office within the Office of Field Operations plays a vital role in leveraging technologies which better serve our citizens’ needs. In your response, we request that you identify any existing technology that could be utilized in a virtual interview process pilot program at the Lancaster and Roseau POEs. This pilot would serve as an efficient and innovative way for CBP to continue serving our communities while meeting that goal. While this request is considered, we ask that the agency delay current plans to reduce service hours at these ports until a pilot program can begin implementation and the ongoing needs of the communities can be evaluated in an open and transparent manner. We look forward to working with you to advance this use of technology as a possible solution for all stakeholders. Sincerely, ###
12.12.2017	Washington D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) today announced the winner of the 2017 Congressional App Challenge: “For the past three years, my office has participated in the Congressional App Challenge which aims to encourage middle and high school students from all over the nation to develop their own software application, otherwise known as an app. I am proud that my office has participated in this program since its inception. STEM skills are of vital important to the workforce of tomorrow, and I am glad that students across my district are learning and practicing these important skills. “I want to congratulate this year’s winning team: Jessica Tober, Erika Mork, Ella Mork and Samantha Pieper from Central Middle School in Norwood Young America. Their app, ‘Time Resurrection’ is designed to plan your day, which includes a checklist function for your long list of homework assignments, and a questionnaire to help determine the best time in your schedule to finish your tasks. We congratulate these young Minnesotans and look forward to seeing what they do in the future!”
12.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement regarding today’s passage of H.J. Res 123: “Today, the House passed language from the CHIP Stability Act (H.R. 4515) that I introduced with Rep. Costello (PA-06). This provision allows for CHIP funding through the end of the year to bring certainty and much needed support for thousands of Minnesotans. I am proud to be a voice for the individuals who depend on CHIP and will continue to fight on behalf of Minnesota families.” Click here to watch video ###
12.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement regarding the resignation of Senator Al Franken: “I am pleased Senator Franken made the right decision for the great state of Minnesota and our country. Elected officials hold the trust of the constituents they represent, and it is crucial we cherish and honor that trust. I am hopeful this will move our society towards better behavior.” ###
12.01.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) and Congressman Ryan Costello (PA-06) introduced legislation to provide short-term funding for the Minnesota Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). Emmer and Costello’s responsible stopgap solution, the CHIP Stability Act, helps Minnesota’s most vulnerable while the Senate finishes the job to fund women and children’s health insurance. “Unfortunately, lack of action in the Senate has forced Minnesota to find alternative funding in order to continue coverage for CHIP recipients,” said Emmer. “I am proud to join Rep. Costello to introduce this responsible legislation and urge my colleagues in the Senate to take quick action to pass long-term CHIP reauthorization for Minnesotans and millions of families across the country.” “Nearly 177,000 children in Pennsylvania and millions across the country utilize CHIP, making this a critically important program that we must keep fully operational,” said Rep. Costello. “While it is unfortunate this legislation is necessary, we must bridge the funding gap, and I will continue to push for a long-term reauthorization of the program.” Emmer introduced the State CHIP Flexibility Act last month, which would provide more flexibility and avoid fines to the state for continuing to cover pregnant women under the program. To ensure that pregnant women are covered for the entirety of their nine-month pregnancy, Minnesota opted to carry-over CHIP funds. Unfortunately, current law penalizes state foresight and flexibility, and instead imposes a fine on any state who utilizes carry-over funds. Minnesota is one of just two states in the nation to face this penalty. House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) and Subcommittee Chairman Michael Burgess (R-TX) are original co-sponsors of Emmer and Costello’s bill.Additional Resources: Emmer Introduces Legislation to Ensure Care for Vulnerable Mothers and Children (11/16/17) OP-ED: Clock is ticking on plan to fund children's health insurance (11/22/17)
11.30.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3905 – Minnesota’s Economic Rights in the Superior National Forest Act, also known as the MINER Act – led by Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06). "Mining has been a way of life for Minnesotans since the 1800s and is a crucial part of our state’s economy. Unfortunately, in its waning days, the previous administration took unnecessary, politically motivated actions aimed at Minnesota’s mining industry by refusing to renew mineral leases and starting the process to withdraw nearly a quarter of a million acres of federal land from development. “The MINER Act reverses the misguided, last-minute actions of the Obama Administration to stop any exploration of one of the most valuable precious metal deposits in the world. The MINER Act is about protecting Minnesota’s right to explore and, if environmentally appropriate, mine valuable precious metals. “Nothing in this legislation will circumvent any of the numerous strict local, state and federal environmental regulations and permitting requirements currently in place – especially when one of the world’s most beautiful national treasures is at stake. By passing the MINER Act today, we are protecting more than ten thousand jobs and billions of dollars in revenue and education funding, while leaving an extensive process intact to protect and preserve the environment and our state.” Congressman Collin Peterson (MN-07) and Congressman Jason Lewis (MN-02) are original cosponsors on this legislation.Additional Resources:Emmer Praises Committee Passage of the MINER Act (11/8/17)Emmer Introduces MINER Act (10/3/17) ###
11.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement regarding the House of Representative’s passage of the first substantial tax reform in 31 years: “Today is a historic day for taxpayers across the country. After eight years of dismal economic growth, stagnant wages and burdensome regulations, we finally have a chance to change that. I was proud to support the Tax Cut and Jobs Act as we work to simplify our overly complicated and burdensome tax code for families and businesses across the nation, and enable the United States to become the economic powerhouse it deserves to be. “This legislation unties the hands of small businesses and corporations so they can be competitive on a global stage. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act also puts middle-class families first by doubling the standard deduction, increasing the Child Tax Credit, retaining the Adoption Tax Credit, and ultimately lowering tax rates for 99% of Americans. “It is important to keep in mind, though, that our work to make the United States a better place for families and a more competitive place for business is far from complete. I look forward to working with my counterparts in the Senate to reconcile the differences between our two proposals. We must also stay focused on addressing our runaway spending and ensure that we spend the taxpayer’s money as responsibly as possible. “We did not get here overnight, and we will not fix things overnight. But, I am proud that today, we started down the path toward boosting our economy and letting middle-class Americans keep more of the money they worked so hard to earn." ###
11.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) introduced legislation to provide a fix for Minnesota’s Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) funding and provide more flexibility for the state. On November 3, the House adopted the CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act, H.R. 3922, to reauthorize the CHIP program for five years. Minnesota is one of two states that faces a fine after expending all of its CHIP funding and requiring alternative funding to get through November 30. Minnesota has opted to carry-over funds in order to ensure that pregnant women currently receiving CHIP coverage will continue to receive health care for the entirety of their nine-month pregnancy. Unfortunately, current law penalizes state foresight and flexibility, and instead imposes a fine on any state who utilizes carry-over funds. This legislative fix would eliminate the fine and effectively save the state of Minnesota approximately $10 million. “Because of lack of action by the Senate, Minnesota has already been forced to find alternative funding in order to continue coverage for CHIP recipients,” said Emmer. “What’s even worse, despite the state’s efforts to ensure we do not leave pregnant women in the lurch, Minnesota will be penalized. I am proud to introduce legislation to allow Minnesota more flexibility to continue providing coverage for children and pregnant mothers while we wait for the Senate to pass legislation reauthorizing CHIP.” The State CHIP Flexibility Act is H.R. 4404. Rep. Collin Peterson (MN-07), Rep. Erik Paulsen (MN-03) and Rep. Jason Lewis (MN-02) are original cosponsors of the legislation. Click here to read full text. ###
11.16.2017	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement today related to allegations against Senator Al Franken (D-MN): “Any and all allegations of sexual harassment or sexual assault deserve our attention and must be taken very seriously. The American people put their trust in elected officials, which makes allegations against lawmakers especially concerning. Standing up for victims and against harassment and assault is not a partisan issue and I support investigations into any claims against elected officials.” ###
11.15.2017	Washington D.C. — On the one-month anniversary of the October 14th terror attack on Mogadishu, Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN) and Rep. Tom Emmer (R-MN), along with Reps. Steve Stivers (R-OH), Karen Bass (D-CA), Adam Smith (D-WA), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Erik Paulsen (R-MN), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), and Denny Heck (D-WA) introduced House Resolution 620, which condemns the attack, expresses sympathy for its victims and their families, and reaffirms U.S. support for Somalia. The October 14th terror attack killed more than 350 people, including three American citizens, and injured another 200—making it the single deadliest in Somalia’s history.“It’s been a month since the terrible and cowardly attack on Mogadishu, and my heart still breaks for the people of Somalia and their families and friends here in the United States,” Ellison said. “The people of Somalia have shown incredible resilience— coming together not only as part of an inspiring effort to recover from this attack, but also to rebuild their nation in the spirit of peace and prosperity. I am proud to stand with my colleagues to express solidarity with the people of Somalia by strongly condemning the senseless violence, extending our condolences to all those affected by the attack, and reaffirming continued U.S. support for Somalia.” “Just over a month ago, Mogadishu experienced a horrific and tragic terrorist attack,” said Emmer. “This attack hit close to home with three of our fellow Americans - including one Minnesotan - among the more than 350 men, women and children who lost their lives far too soon. I stand with my colleagues and the Somali community to condemn last month’s attack. I am proud to work with my colleagues to offer condolences and lend support as Somalia works to rebuild itself and its communities in the wake of this recent tragedy. Today, and every day, we stand against terror and join together to rid this world of evil.” The full text of the resolution reads as follows: “Strongly condemning the terrorist attack in Mogadishu, Somalia on October 14, 2017, and expressing condolences and sympathies to the victims of the attack and their families. Whereas on October 14, 2017, a truck bomb filled with military grade and homemade explosives detonated at a busy intersection in the center of Mogadishu, Somalia, and took the lives of more than 350 people and injured more than 200 additional people; Whereas at least three Americans, Ahmed AbdiKarin Eyow, Mohamoud Elmi, and Abukar Dahie, were killed in the attack; Whereas the Somali Government believes that Al-Shabaab was responsible for the attack, although no official claims of responsibility have yet been made; Whereas Al-Shabaab has previously avoided claiming responsibility for Al Shabaab operations when it believes the operation may significantly damage its public image among Somalis; Whereas the Department of State condemned ‘‘in the strongest terms the terrorist attacks that killed and injured hundreds in Mogadishu on October 14’’; Whereas the Department of State stated that ‘‘the United States will continue to stand with the Somali government, its people, and our international allies to combat terrorism and support their efforts to achieve peace, security, and prosperity’’; Whereas according to the Department of State’s Country Report on Terrorism for 2016, Al-Shabaab is the most potent threat to regional stability in East Africa; Whereas the United States continues to support counterterrorism efforts in coordination with the Government of Somalia, international partners, and the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM) mainly through capacity building programs, advise and assist missions, and intelligence support; Whereas Somalia’s president, Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed, declared three days of national mourning in response to the attack; Whereas the vibrant, bustling district of Mogadishu where the attack occurred is characteristic of the city’s revitalization, and the solidarity and efforts by the city’s residents to rebuild already are a testament to their resilience; and Whereas Somalia has been a strong partner to the United States: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives— (1) strongly condemns the terrorist attack in Mogadishu, Somalia on October 14, 2017; (2) expresses its heartfelt condolences and deepest sympathies for the victims of the attack and their families; (3) honors the memories of Ahmed AbdiKarin Eyow, Mohamoud Elmi, and Abukar Dahie, who were murdered in the horrific terrorist attack; (4) recognizes the significant efforts to combat terrorism by the Government of Somalia, the countries contributing troops to the African Union Mission in Somalia, and United States forces in Somalia; (5) reaffirms United States support for the Government of Somalia’s efforts to achieve peace, security, and prosperity and combat terrorism in Somalia; and (6) renews the solidarity of the people and Government of the United States with the people and Government of Somalia.” ###
11.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement regarding today’s passage of the 21st Century Flood Reform Act: “I am proud to join my colleagues in the House to pass common-sense legislation to reauthorize and reform our National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP),” said Emmer. “The 21st Century Flood Reform Act, extends the program's authorization for another five years while incorporating reforms which lay the groundwork for a private flood insurance marketplace to take hold. While there is more to be done to bring the NFIP out of debt and improve the way it operates, the reforms included in this legislation take important steps to better prepare policyholders for future disasters. I am glad we are looking to the future to prevent Congress from being forced to continue governing from crisis to crisis.” Emmer spoke in support of the bill on the House Floor during debate of the 21st Century Flood Reform Act. Emmer serves on the House Financial Services Committee that passed NFIP reforms in June of this year. ###
11.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – This week, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) introduced H.Res. 617 to designate the third Thursday of November as “World Wide Pressure Injury Prevention Day.” Prevention of injury and disease plays a vital role in the health care of our nation. While there is a spotlight on many important issues that require our attention, there are also lesser-known areas that also deserve acknowledgment. “I am honored to support raising awareness for pressure injuries, sometimes known as bed sores, and work to increase the quality of life for millions of Americans,” said Emmer. “Pressure injuries occur more frequently than any other preventable health issue, and by designating the third Thursday in November as a day of recognition we can highlight the need to address these often avoidable and debilitating injuries. It is crucial we bring awareness to this crisis so we can lessen the pain and suffering associated with pressure injuries while reducing health care costs.” The cost of care due to pressure injuries annually is approximately $10 billion. Pressure injuries are also responsible for more than 60,000 deaths each year. Last year alone, 2.5 million patients developed a pressure injury in the hospital and required stays more than twice in length. Pressure injuries also hit the veteran community especially hard, impacting more than one-third of veterans with spinal injuries and costing nearly $80,000 more than veterans not affected. Additionally, there are 17,000 lawsuits each year due to pressure injuries. The Medical Alley Association supports the designation of Pressure Injury Prevention Day. ###
11.09.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Tom Emmer’s (MN-06) Micro Offering Safe Harbor Act passed out of the House of Representatives by a vote of 232-188. This is Emmer’s second bill to pass in the 115th Congress. “Small business owners and entrepreneurs are the backbone of our society, and responsible for more than half of new jobs created each year,” said Emmer. “Unfortunately, for far too long, government regulations have tied their hands making it difficult to startup or expand. Today, the House of Representatives took a step to change that with the passage of the Micro Offering Safe Harbor Act. This legislation clarifies existing law so that small businesses and startups have more ways to access capital which is so vital to their success, getting them one step closer to achieving the American Dream.” Small businesses accounted for 99.7 percent of all businesses in the United States last year, but only half of them have a survival rate of longer than five years. According to the National Small Business Association's 2016 Year-End Economic Report, only 69 percent of small businesses surveyed said they are able to get adequate financing. The Micro Offering Safe Harbor Act brings clarity to the Securities Act of 1933. By defining what qualifies under the “non-public offering” exemption, this legislation will provide certainty to small business owners and entrepreneurs as they work to startup or grow their businesses. This legislation requires three specific criteria to be met simultaneously in order to trigger a safe harbor exemption for a security offering. These criteria ensure that: Each investor has a substantive pre-existing relationship with an owner; There are no more than 35 purchasers of securities from the issuer that are sold in reliance on the exemption during the 12-month period; and The aggregate amount of all securities sold by the issuers does not exceed $500,000 during the 12-month period preceding. Additionally, Emmer introduced an amendment to enhance the existing anti-fraud provisions in the underlying bill and provide increased protection for Americans from bad actors trying to swindle and defraud investors. The Micro Offering Safe Harbor Act is H.R. 2201. It was approved during the 114th Congress as part of the Accelerating Access to Capital Act (H.R. 2357). H.R. 2201 bill is supported by: the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB), the National Small Business Association (NSBA), Heritage Action for America, the Small Business& Entrepreneurship Council and Engine, the “Voice of Startups in America.” ###
11.08.2017	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement after the MINER Act passed out of the House Committee on Natural Resources: "Today, we came one-step closer to undoing the Obama Administration’s politically motivated actions in Northern Minnesota. I am proud that my bipartisan MINER Act passed the House Committee on Natural Resources. Passage of this legislation ensures Minnesotans have a say in sweeping bureaucratic decisions made in Washington. Environmentally responsible mining and exploration in Northern Minnesota will unleash our ability to tap into our abundance of natural resources, and provide for a better way of life for our children, just as those in Northern Minnesota have done for decades. "We can preserve our beautiful state without permanently destroying any future job creation or economic development. We can utilize the largest untapped copper-nickel deposit in the world for Americans, and in an environmentally sound way. While there are still numerous environmental and safety benchmarks that must be met in the coming years before any mining can occur, passage of the MINER Act will let our federal, state, and local environmental review process to proceed. I am thankful for the leadership of Energy and Mineral Resources Subcommittee Chairman Paul Gosar, Natural Resources Committee Chairman Rob Bishop, and the support of my colleagues – the future of Minnesota is brighter because of today’s vote." The MINER Act is H.R. 3905. Click here for more information. ###
11.03.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement regarding the introduction of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act to reform the United States’ tax code: “For far too long, we have been forced to sit idly by as our tax code has squeezed the middle-class, destroyed economic growth, and drove people and corporations out of this country. This has left us with a tax code that is nearly 75,000 pages long, too complex for the average family or business owner to understand, and has not been updated in more than three decades. “But, today that all changes. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act puts us in a position to finally undo our overly burdensome and complex tax system. Minnesotans currently face the 4th highest tax burden in the country, but because of the plan released today, they have a chance to see some relief from the heavy hand of the federal government. “This tax reform is about middle-class families and those who are just starting out. This is about helping more Americans on their quest to raise a family and achieve the American Dream. This is about pulling our nation out of the past eight years of dismal GDP growth and boosting our economy to grow at a rate of 3-4 percent like we know it can. This is about families and businesses across this country once again being able to choose how to spend their money. “Today is a reminder that we know we cannot tax our way into prosperity. I look forward to engaging with my colleagues as this legislation is thoroughly debated in Congress in the coming days and will continue find ways to cut spending and put more of the American people’s hard-earned tax dollars back in their pockets.”The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is H.R. 1. Click here for text and summaries. ###
11.01.2017	(Courtesy of the Congressional Western Caucus) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Paul A. Gosar D.D.S. (AZ-04), Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (WI-01), House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (CA-23), Chief Forestry Officer Bruce Westerman (AR-04), Executive Vice Chairman Scott Tipton (CO-03), Chief Rules Officer Dan Newhouse (WA-04), Chief Defense and Interior Officer Chris Stewart (UT-02), Chairman Emeritus Steve Pearce (NM-02), House Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), and Members Reps. Doug Collins (GA-09), Kristi Noem (SD-AL), Kurt Schrader (OR-05), Mimi Walters (CA-45), Paul Cook (CA-08), Jeff Denham (CA-10), Doug LaMalfa (01), Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (PA-05), Doug Lamborn (CO-05), Tom Emmer (MN-06), Liz Cheney (WY-AL), and Greg Gianforte (MT-AL) issued statements following passage on the House Floor of Rep. Westerman’s H.R. 2936, the Resilient Federal Forests Act:Congressman Gosar said, “Today, the House has taken a major step forward in making our federal forests healthy again. We have demonstrated our commitment to halting the practice of fire borrowing so that the Bureau of Land Management and the U.S. Forest Service don’t have to rob fire prevention accounts in order to finance fire suppression. And we have finally passed reforms that will clear the way for proactive forestry management by the Forest Service once again. The cumulative effect of these actions will be that in a few years’ time, absurd phrases like ‘wildfire season’ and astronomical figures like $2.5 billion dollars spent on nearly nine million acres burnt will sound like made-up fictions. But before that can happen, the Senate needs to take a vote and the President has to put his signature on my friend Congressman Westerman’s great bill.” Speaker Ryan stated, "The Resilient Federal Forests Act addresses the obstructionist litigation by requiring litigants opposing forest management activity to come to the table rather than just saying “no.” The legislation also incentivizes and rewards collaboration and encourages local participation in forest health projects. This legislation also fixes the fire “borrowing” issue, making sure these agencies have the funds they need to fight wildfires throughout the summer, and to start managing our forests proactively.” Majority Leader McCarthy said, “Our federal forests are a tinderbox, and our current policy of neglect and over litigation created the conditions for wildfires. I’ve visited the results of this neglect, seen the communities wiped of the map, and walked through completely destroyed forests. In my own district, the Erskine Fire burned over 48,000 acres last year and destroyed nearly 300 homes. “This year has proven to be another catastrophic year for wildfires,” Congressman Westerman said. “Dozens of lives have been lost, thousands of homes destroyed, and millions of acres burned. Congress spoke today and said enough is enough. We must give the Forest Service the tools it needs to stop these fires before they start. We must end the practice of fire borrowing and treat wildfires as the natural disasters they are, funding recovery efforts through FEMA. We must do what is right for our environment and stop these catastrophic wildfires. I thank Speaker Ryan, Leader McCarthy, and Chairman Bishop for their leadership on this issue and I thank my co-sponsors on both sides of the aisle." “Devastating wildfires have ravaged the West, taking lives, destroying property and causing significant damage to our precious environment. These large wildfires are the result of decades of misguided forest management strategies, which have left federal land management agencies focused on firefighting rather than on managing forests to reduce these types of catastrophic fires in the first place,” said Congressman Tipton. “The Resilient Federal Forests Act will take necessary steps to reverse this trend by streamlining the permitting process for management activities such as removing dead and downed timber, and allowing agencies to work with local experts to proactively mitigate devastating insect infestations.” “My constituents know as well as anyone the immense threat that wildfires pose to local communities. In just the past four years, the 4th District of Washington has seen the two largest fires in state history. We have lost hundreds of homes, business, and structures. My constituents are still struggling to recover from the Carlton Complex Fire in 2014 and the Okanogan Complex Fire in 2015. The human toll has been high. Several residents have lost their lives, including three firefighters in 2015. Active forest management is a matter of saving lives and livelihoods, of protecting our communities, and ensuring our constituents’ healthy and safety, which is why I am proud to support passage of this legislation,” stated Congressman Newhouse.Congressman Stewart said: “Without a doubt, current federal policies have contributed to recent catastrophic wildfires. Wildfire management begins with proper land management. This bill reverses the tide of federal mismanagement and removes heavy handed regulations that have paralyzed forests managers for decades. I am proud that the House passed this legislation. Now the Senate must act to ensure we have healthy forests for generations to come.” “We in New Mexico are all too familiar with the economic and environmental devastation created by catastrophic wildfires,” said Congressman Pearce. “How we manage our federal forests is badly in need of updating to ensure communities, watersheds, endangered species, local businesses, and firefighters are kept safe. We must increase and expedite forest thinning and other forest treatment projects to restore forest health across the country. Today’s common sense bill will cut government red tape and streamline the approval processes for essential forest management projects to ensure our fire-prone, federal forests get the treatment they need." “The Forest Service has warned us that our forests are in terrible shape,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. “When you don’t actively manage forests, diseased and dying trees serve as fuel for the next major fire. We’ve seen these catastrophic fires right here in Eastern Washington, and we must take action to protect our forests and reduce our risk of fire. This legislation proposes real solutions to create healthier, more resilient forests.” “Wildfires have threatened too many of our forests in northeast Georgia and around the country, so we’re taking smart steps through the Resilient Federal Forests Act to get the federal agencies the tools they need to protect our land,” said Congressman Collins. “The years-long pine beetle epidemic has turned much of South Dakota’s Black Hills into a tinder box,” said Congresswoman Noem. “We are fortunate to have so many dedicated foresters working in this area, and I’m proud to have scored some critical victories in support of their efforts over the years. The Resilient Federal Forests Act would put additional tools at their disposal. With the House’s stamp of approval, I strongly urge the Senate to take the legislation up quickly and allow these critical resources to be deployed.” “Wildfire disasters don’t typically receive as much national attention as other natural disasters,” said Congressman Schrader. “But all corners of the country watched as the fires out west devastated homes and communities during this devastating wildfire season. Our current laissez-faire approach to forest management, with exclusively reactive efforts to fight increasingly horrific wildfires that threaten and destroy our communities is completely inadequate and becoming more and more costly. The bipartisan bill we passed today rewards communities that are proactive and collaborative in the stewardship of their forests, with rural advisory committees and wildfire protection plans to manage their forests without redundant NEPA processes. With this bill, we’re empowering good leadership and good management, providing for research and development and innovation in renewable forest timber construction technologies, and bringing together environmental and timber communities. While this bill is by no means perfect, and is not a silver bullet, it’s a step forward in the right direction as we work to curb the unnecessary and costly destruction caused by these fires.” Congresswoman Walters stated, “Three weeks ago, the Canyon Fire burned over 6,000 acres, destroyed 25 structures, damaged dozens more, and forced over 16,000 Orange County residents to evacuate their homes and businesses. The cost of extinguishing this wildfire and its economic impact have yet to be determined, but it is clear that hazardous fuel buildup endangers communities and costs taxpayers more and more each year. The current federal wildfire management program is unsustainable. I am proud to have supported the Resilient Federal Forest Act to put our U.S. Forest Service on a fiscally responsible path that will undoubtedly save countless lives in the years to come.” “This past year we’ve continued to see firsthand in California the devastating consequences of wildfires, both environmentally and economically. This critical bipartisan legislation will help reduce the threat of future wildfires by instituting reforms to improve forest management, improve wildlife habitat, and streamline the environmental review process,” said Congressman Cook. “When we fail to actively manage our forests and federal lands, we put ourselves and our neighbors at risk. The Resilient Federal Forests Act will allow us to reduce the presence of forest materials – such as dead or disease-infested trees – that fuel massive wildfires. It also solves the fire-borrowing problem to improve our response to wildfire suppression. I applaud my colleagues in the House for passing this important bill to help protect Californians and all Americans from out-of-control burning of our forestlands,” said Congressman Denham.Congressman LaMalfa said, “A complete lack of forest management has left our forests more combustible than ever – leaving our firefighters wholly unprepared to contain overwhelming wildfires that quickly get out of hand. Forest fires will occur, but we can take logical steps to manage them that will help prevent them from spreading and extinguish them more quickly – resulting in less damage and lower costs. The Resilient Federal Forests Act will allow the U.S. Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management to properly manage our federal forests, which will improve overall forest health and reduce the risk of such severe wildfires.” “Our national forests are becoming increasingly overgrown with hazardous fuel due to lack of active management,” said Congressman Thompson. “The Resilient Federal Forests Act is a vital piece of legislation for the Forest Service, allowing for more authority and flexibility for improved forest management. As a member of both the Agriculture and Natural Resources Committees, I understand how important it is we provide our Forest Service with the tools needed to reduce the threat of catastrophic wildfires, insect and disease infestation and damage to municipal watersheds. I applaud my colleagues for their support of this common-sense legislation to combat future forest fires.”Congressman Lamorn said, “Wildfire funding is vital for western states, particularly my home of Colorado. I support legislation that protects our land and secures protection for our future. The Resilient Federal Forests Act speeds up the reforestation process, incentivizes collaboration among government and organizations, and creates new programs to effectively respond after a disastrous wildfire.” “I am proud to support Congressman Westerman’s Resilient Federal Forests Act, to take a proactive approach to forest management and disaster mitigation. This legislation improves our ability to prepare for, and prevent, future wildfires and shifts the federal government away from its current practice of simply responding to crisis after crisis, costing billions of dollars and putting homes and American families at risk,” said Congressman Emmer. Congresswoman Cheney stated, “This year has been one of the largest wildfire years in our nation's history and we have seen livelihoods across the west threatened. In my home state of Wyoming, we find ourselves in an indefensible situation. Mismanagement of our forests by the federal government and years of bad policy are causing and exacerbating fires, putting our forests, our water, our wildlife, and, most importantly, our people at risk. The Resilient Federal Forest Act is an important first step and a bipartisan effort to begin to help improve management of our forests." “The Resilient Federal Forests Act provides common sense reforms that will benefit Montana’s forests, economy, and environment. Meaningful forest management will improve the health of our forests, boost wildlife habitats, create good-paying Montana jobs, and reduce the severity of our wildfires. The amount of public support for more active forest management has been tremendous. Conservation organizations, foresters, stakeholders, and local leaders throughout Montana recognize the need for better forest management, and I commend them for taking steps to help ensure we start managing our forests again. I will continue to advocate for healthier forests in Montana and throughout the West. I encourage the Senate to act quickly on this bill to provide Montanans with relief and a long-term solution to address catastrophic wildfires,” concluded Congressman Gianforte. Background: Over the last decade, wildfires have overtaken the West. The underlying problems have gotten to be so severe that states which traditionally do not have wildfire problems are finding themselves having to reckon with thousands of acres burned, homes evacuated and the air filled with smoke. Some figures drive this point home. 8.8 million acres burned across the United States this year alone, costing the United States Forest Service (USFS) $2.5 billion dollars in fire suppression costs. Over 50,000 significant fires were burning this summer at once, and a total of 80 million acres were considered high-risk due to forest service lacking the resources to apply management to them beforehand. The search for legislative solutions to the wildfire problem began from the ground-up in the 115th Congress. The House held multiple hearings and consulted dozens of experts in seeking to draft wildfire and management reform legislation. Environmental concerns and air quality were key factors throughout this process, with additional hearings devoted to these issues. Two major problems were identified: for one, the USFS and Bureau of Land Management (BLM) have encountered significant regulatory and judicial roadblocks to instituting the sort of active management of our forests that would reduce the risks of catastrophic wildfire. But even if the aforementioned impediments were ameliorated, these agencies still faced a more significant problem: themselves. Because of the increasing costs of wildfires, USFS has been maxing out its suppression account each year and has been forced to raid its forest management and other accounts in order to put out fires. They’ve had to use resources designed to prevent forest fires in order to put them out. This merry-go-round practice is called “fire borrowing,” and it has dramatically exacerbated the problem of catastrophic wildfires. Congressman Bruce Westerman’s H.R. 2936, the Resilient Federal Forests Act, provides solutions for each of these systemic issues. His bill is a package of forest management reforms that include regulatory expedition for forest management projects, a new arbitration pilot program for court cases in which an injunction against forest management projects is sought, as well as new incentives for agencies to coordinate with state and local governments to seek forest management solutions. The net effect of these reforms will be to reduce the barriers to proactive forest management while preserving environmental protections and the legal right to recompense for harm or breach. Finally, his bill introduces a new funding mechanism for catastrophic wildfire disasters. H.R. 2936 would establish a wildfire sub-account within FEMA’s Disaster Relief Fund. Subject to Congressional appropriations, the new account would lie untouched and separate from other disaster funding until wildfire suppression costs expend all of the funds in BLM or USFS’s own accounts. The bill would prohibit these agencies from engaging in “fire borrowing,” and instead establishes a process whereby the Secretaries of Interior or Agriculture request of the President a transfer of funds in the amount required to cover suppression costs. A list of outside support for the bill can be found HERE. Bill text is HERE. Click HERE to read more background information about the bill courtesy the House Natural Resources Committee
10.18.2017	A recent survey by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources indicates that the gray wolf population in the state increased 25 percent this year, from 2,278 wolves to nearly 2,900 wolves; As a result, the Minnesota Wildlife Services program has been particularly active and has been forced to stop all operational wolf depredation assistance for farmers and ranchers for the remainder of the year starting October 13th due to a lack of funds In a letter to Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue, the federal lawmakers urge the U.S. Department of Agriculture to locate, shift, or transfer the resources necessary to allow wolf depredation services to continue in Minnesota Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, and Representatives Collin Peterson, Tim Walz, Rick Nolan, and Tom Emmer have called on the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to make emergency resources available to continue wolf depredation services in Minnesota. A recent survey by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources indicates that the gray wolf population in the state increased 25 percent this year, from 2,278 wolves to nearly 2,900 wolves. As a result, the Minnesota Wildlife Services program has been particularly active and has been forced to stop all operational wolf depredation assistance for farmers and ranchers for the remainder of the year starting October 13th due to a lack of funds. In a letter to Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue, the federal lawmakers urge USDA to locate, shift, or transfer the resources necessary to allow wolf depredation services to continue in Minnesota. “Minnesota has the highest number of gray wolves in the contiguous United States. A recent survey by the Minnesota DNR indicates that the gray wolf population in the state increased 25 percent this year, from 2,278 wolves to nearly 2,900 wolves. As a result, the Minnesota Wildlife Services program has been particularly active and will be forced to stop all operational wolf depredation assistance for the remainder of the year starting October 13th due to a lack of funds,” the federal lawmakers wrote. “We urge you to locate, shift, or transfer the resources necessary to allow wolf depredation services to continue in Minnesota. This support will help address concerns with predatory wolves in the short-term.” The full text of the lawmakers’ letter is below. Dear Secretary Perdue: We request that adequate emergency resources be made available so that wolf depredation services may continue in Minnesota. We appreciate the collaboration during the last few years between the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and urge this relationship to continue. Minnesota has the highest number of gray wolves in the contiguous United States. A recent survey by the Minnesota DNR indicates that the gray wolf population in the state increased 25 percent this year, from 2,278 wolves to nearly 2,900 wolves. As a result, the Minnesota Wildlife Services program has been particularly active and will be forced to stop all operational wolf depredation assistance for the remainder of the year starting October 13th due to a lack of funds. The Wildlife Services depredation program provides trapping services, on-site investigations, and other operational assistance for residents that are having problems with predatory wolves. This program offers much-needed services that help people every day who feel the safety of their families, livestock, or pets are in jeopardy. We urge you to locate, shift, or transfer the resources necessary to allow wolf depredation services to continue in Minnesota. This support will help address concerns with predatory wolves in the short-term. We look forward to working with you to restore the wolf depredation program in Minnesota. Sincerely, ###
10.18.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar, U.S. Senator Al Franken, and Representatives Collin Peterson, Tim Walz, Rick Nolan, and Tom Emmer applaud the announcement made by the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) that the agency will continue to provide wolf depredation services in Minnesota. APHIS also agreed to provide a funding match with the state for 2018 so the services can continue into next year. The news arrives shortly after several members of the Minnesota delegation sent a letter to the USDA urging the Department to allocate resources so that essential wolf depredation services can be provided to constituents who need them. “We are pleased that the Department of Agriculture has moved quickly on our request and will continue to provide the funding necessary to assist Minnesotans who are having problems with wolves threatening their livestock,” the federal lawmakers said. ###
10.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement in regards to recent disparaging comments from leaders of Save the Boundary Waters against miners and union workers in Northern Minnesota: “This nation was built on the backs of the American worker, and Minnesota was built on the backs of Minnesota miners. For some Minnesota families, mining is in their blood going back to the beginning of Minnesota’s statehood. These men and women are responsible for keeping our towns, our state, and our country alive. They are the ones we have to thank for providing the precious metals needed for our cell phones, computers, vehicles and wind turbines. “Apparently, Save the Boundary Waters’ leaders think rather differently telling the New York Times, ‘They want somebody to just give them a job so they can all drink beer with their buddies and go four-wheeling and snowmobiling with their buddies, not have to think about anything except punching a clock.’ “All Americans, and all Minnesotans, have the right to say or believe what they will, but that is not the Minnesota Nice we are known for, and I am embarrassed to hear fellow Minnesotans speak so disparagingly about our neighbors. The next time Save the Boundary Waters leaders voice their opposition, I hope they take a minute to realize all they have thanks to the mining industry and the incredible workers who provided it to them. “I urge my fellow Minnesota colleagues to join me in condemning these unnecessary mean-spirted attacks on our hardworking citizens.” ###
10.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – This week, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) participated in a legislative markup in the House Financial Services Committee to bring much needed financial relief to American families, small businesses, and local financial institutions. Emmer spoke on two of his bills, the Micro Offering Safe Harbor Act and the Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act, that were among those considered in committee. “This week was a good week for Main Street Minnesota,” said Emmer. “Our focus has been – and should be – on bringing relief to communities across this nation as we work towards growing, not stifling, our local economies. From introducing reforms to help our nation’s job creators grow and prosper, to reducing regulations currently tying the hands of our small community banks and credit unions, these necessary reforms aim to get our economy back to the powerhouse we know it can be. I am proud of the productive work of this committee and am pleased to have two of my policy reforms included.”The Micro Offering Safe Harbor Act is H.R. 2201. To watch Emmer’s opening statement on H.R. 2201, click here. This bill is supported by: the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and Engine. The Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act is H.R. 2954. To watch Emmer’s opening statement on H.R. 2954, click here. This bill is supported by: National Association of Federally-Insured Credit Unions, Credit Union National Association and the Independent Community Bankers of America. For a full list of bills included in the committee markup, click here. ###
10.10.2017	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement regarding the Trump Administration’s recent decision to rescind the Clean Power Plan: “The Obama Administration’s Clean Power Plan - which was estimated to cost more than $30 billion dollars - was promulgated without Congressional approval, making it the perfect example of federal overreach. It has been proven time and time again that a one-size-fits-all policy does not work for our state and I am pleased the Trump Administration has taken this step. I am proud that Minnesota companies and elected officials have taken it upon themselves to work to reduce carbon emissions without the heavy hand of the federal government demanding so. In fact, even without the constraints of the Paris Accords or the Clean Power Plan, Minnesota is still on track to meet previous reduction goals, proving that Minnesotans are capable of implementing policies that work for Minnesotans and are in the best interest of the future of this nation. “I applaud the Trump Administration’s decision to roll back the overreaching Clean Power Plan, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress and the Trump Administration towards an all-of-the-above energy plan so that we can maintain a prosperous economy and healthy environment that generations to come can enjoy.” ###
10.04.2017	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement regarding the Administration's move to expel diplomats from the Cuban Embassy in Washington, D.C.: “The Administration’s decision last week to withdraw all non-essential personnel from our embassy in Havana was concerning but understandable to ensure the safety of our foreign service staff on the island. Unfortunately, yesterday’s actions do not seem to advance our efforts of identifying a cause or culprit behind these 'sonic attacks.' Instead of sending us back down a path of isolation, we must foster open lines of communication as we continue the investigation to determine who must be held responsible for these attacks on Americans. We cannot lose sight of the fact that an improved and sustained relationship with Cuba brings us one step closer to ensuring the stability and security of the entire Western Hemisphere.” ###
10.03.2017	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) introduced Minnesota’s Economic Rights (MINER) in the Superior National Forest Act, which will help restore mineral rights to Minnesota so that our miners, the state of Minnesota, and nation can once again thrive. Congressman Collin Peterson (MN-07) and Congressman Jason Lewis (MN-02) joined Emmer as original cosponsors.The MINER Act requires approval from elected Representatives in Congress for any federal proposal to withdraw land from mining, or establishment of national monuments in Minnesota. Additionally, this legislation would allow the renewal of mineral leases in the area and would ensure that future leases in the area remain valid and renewed, consistent with current law.Lastly, this legislation includes language to specifically protect one of Minnesota’s natural treasures by stating, “Nothing in this section may be construed as permitting the prospecting for development and utilization of mineral resources within the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness or Mine Protection Area,” and specifically requires environmental review of any leases issued under the bill’s provisions.“In their final hours, the Obama Administration enacted a series of harmful and reckless policies, which have hindered our ability to utilize our state’s abundance of natural resources and bring jobs to a part of our state that badly needs them,” said Emmer. “I know that we can responsibly mine and bring jobs back to this region without destroying the forests, lakes and streams that all Minnesotans hold dear. That is why I am proud to introduce the MINER Act, which will allow mining as long as it meets strict environmental requirements, so that we can advance our state and local economies while protecting Minnesota’s beauty for future generations.”The MINER Act is H.R. 3905. Click here to read the full text.Additional resources:Release: House Unanimously Approves Emmer Amendment (Sept. 7, 2017)Video: Emmer testifies to restore Minnesota’s mineral rights (July 27, 2017)Release: Gosar, Emmer, Nolan and Westerman tour MN mining operations (July 19, 2017) ###
09.29.2017	Washington, D.C. – The bipartisan Cuba Working Group in the U.S. House of Representatives issued the following statement regarding Secretary Tillerson’s recent meeting with Cuban Foreign Minister Bruno Rodriguez Parrilla and the decision to withdraw all non-essential personnel from the U.S. Embassy in Havana: “Our thoughts and prayers remain with the 21 brave Americans who join the ranks of those who have sacrificed their own health and welfare in service to our country. Their safety and well-being are paramount. “The federal government has a responsibility to ensure the safety and security of our diplomats and Foreign Service personnel, regardless of where they serve. Those who are responsible for perpetuating these harmful and unacceptable acts will be held accountable. “As the State Department, law enforcement and intelligence communities continue their investigation, we are encouraged by the willingness of the Cuban Government to serve as a partner in resolving this matter. A swift, apolitical resolution is in the best interests of both nations and we support continued cooperation and engagement until the source and motive of these attacks are determined. Calls to sever all diplomatic ties or travel, or encourage retaliatory efforts without identifying the responsible parties are misguided and do nothing to ensure the safety and security of our diplomatic personnel and their families moving forward. “Situations like these require responsible diplomacy from both nations. We appreciate the hard work and professionalism of all of the men and women involved in determining the cause of these attacks. The entire Cuba Working Group will continue to monitor this investigation and stands ready to assist the Administration in developing a targeted and appropriate response for the perpetrators of these attacks, once the investigation is complete.”The Cuba Working Group is a bipartisan coalition in Congress comprised of members focused on improving the future of U.S. foreign policy during a time in which the U.S.-Cuba relationship is rapidly being reshaped. Members include Representatives Tom Emmer (R-MN), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Rick Crawford (R-AR), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Mark Sanford (R-NC), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Ted Poe (R-TX), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Rodney Davis (R-IL), Nydia Velazquez (D-NY), Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Darin LaHood (R-IL), Cheri Bustos (D-IL), Ralph Abraham (R-LA), Mike Doyle (D-PA), Justin Amash (R-MI), Don Beyer (D-VA), James Comer (R-KY), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Roger Marshall (R-KS), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Clay Higgins (R-LA). ###
09.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, a bipartisan group of 65 Members of Congress, led by Congressman John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Congressman Rick Crawford (R-AR), Congresswoman Barbara Lee (CA-13), and Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06), sent a letter to President Donald Trump urging him to implement changes to allow U.S. companies to sell products for reconstruction to Cuba after Hurricane Irma devastated the country.The Members wrote, “[T]here is a simple change you can make that would provide necessary support to the Cuban people while at the same time helping U.S. businesses: remove restrictions on the ability of U.S. companies to export needed relief and reconstruction supplies to the Cuban government and its people.” “It is well known that U.S. companies, both large and small, have shown a keen interest in selling products to Cuba, as exemplified by the formation of the Chamber of Commerce-led U.S.- Cuba Business Council. Making this regulatory change would not only help the Cuban people rebuild, but would provide a boon to companies in America who provide good jobs to our people. This change would not be controversial. Even before Hurricane Irma hit Cuba, 90 percent of Americans supported increasing U.S. business engagement with Cuba. At this difficult time for the Cuban people, denying them the ability to purchase high quality, American-made construction, medical, and other crucial supplies is cruel and counterproductive. We urge you to take action without further delay.” "Like much of the Caribbean, Cuba was devastated by Hurricane Irma," said President of Engage Cuba, James Williams. “There are steps the United States can, and should take, to allow US businesses to help our island neighbor, without costing taxpayers a dime. Right now is not a time for politics; it's a time to help the Cuban people rebuild.” Signatories include: Karen Bass (CA-37); Donald S. Beyer, Jr. (VA-08); Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02); Earl Blumenauer (OR-03); Robert A. Brady (PA-01); Cheri Bustos (IL-17); Salúd O. Carbajal (CA-24); Kathy Castor (FL-14); David Cicilline (RI-01); Katherine Clark (MA-05); Yvette D. Clarke (NY-09); Steve Cohen (TN-09); John Conyers, Jr. (MI-13); Luis Correa (CA-46); Rick Crawford (AR-01); Charlie Crist (FL-13); Peter DeFazio (OR-04); Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-03); Ted Deutch (FL-22); Mike Doyle (PA-14); Keith Ellison (MN-05); Tom Emmer (MN-06); Dwight Evans (PA-02); Raúl Grijalva (AZ-03); Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15); Colleen Hanabusa (HI-01); Brian Higgins (NY-26);Jared Huffman (CA-02); Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30); Walter B. Jones (NC-03); Robin L. Kelly (IL-02); Ro Khanna (CA-17); Barbara Lee (CA-13); Ted Lieu (CA-33);Zoe Lofgren (CA-19); Betty McCollum (MN-04); James P. McGovern (MA-02); Gregory Meeks (NY-05); Grace Meng (NY-06); Gwen Moore (WI-04); Seth Moulton (MA-06); Jerrold Nadler (NY-10); Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32); Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-AL); Richard M. Nolan (MN-08); Scott H. Peters (CA-52); Chellie Pingree (ME-01); Mark Pocan (WI-02); Ted Poe (TX-02); Jared Polis (CO-02); Jamie Raskin (MD-08); Bobby Rush (IL-01); Tim Ryan (OH-13); Mark Sanford (SC-01); Jan Schakowsky (IL-09); David Scott (GA-13); Jose Serrano (NY-15); Mark Takano (CA-41); Paul D. Tonko (NY-21); Norma Torres (CA-35); Nydia Velázquez (NY-07); Peter J. Visclosky (IN-01); Tim Walz (MN-01); Peter Welch (VT-AL); Frederica S. Wilson (FL-17). Full text of the letter is available here and below. Dear President Trump, We are extremely saddened by the loss of life and destruction in the Caribbean from Hurricane Irma. Cuba was particularly hard hit: ten people perished and billions of dollars’ in damage was done to their already weak infrastructure and housing, in what was the strongest hurricane to hit Cuba in 85 years. Cuba absorbed much of Irma’s force, lessening the storm’s impact on southern Florida and the United States. Historical grievances should be put aside during a humanitarian crisis like this – the people of Cuba need urgent support to rebuild. Fortunately, there is a simple change you can make that would provide necessary support to the Cuban people while at the same time helping U.S. businesses: remove restrictions on the ability of U.S. companies to export needed relief and reconstruction supplies to the Cuban government and its people. Although current Treasury Department embargo regulations authorize U.S. companies to provide services related to infrastructure in Cuba (31 CFR 515.591), Commerce Department export regulations require that U.S. exports to support the provision of such services be approved on a case-by-case basis. (15 CFR 746.2) Obama administration regulations specifically licensed only the sale of tools and construction materials to private entities, servicing only privately-owned buildings, thus excluding public facilities such as schools and hospitals. At this critical time, we should relax these restrictions to allow other appropriate entities in Cuba to purchase needed relief and reconstruction supplies and equipment, even if only temporarily during the rebuilding period. It is well known that U.S. companies, both large and small, have shown a keen interest in selling products to Cuba, as exemplified by the formation of the Chamber of Commerce-led U.S.- Cuba Business Council. Making this regulatory change would not only help the Cuban people rebuild, but would provide a boon to companies in America who provide good jobs to our people. This change would not be controversial. Even before Hurricane Irma hit Cuba, 90 percent of Americans supported increasing U.S. business engagement with Cuba. At this difficult time for the Cuban people, denying them the ability to purchase high quality, American-made construction, medical, and other crucial supplies is cruel and counterproductive. We urge you to take action without further delay. Thank you kindly for your consideration. We look forward to your response. ###
09.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement regarding the announcement of the new unified Republican tax reform framework: “After 31 long years, Congress finally has a plan to reform our nation’s tax code by putting middle class families and the American worker first. The past three decades have made it clear that we cannot tax our way into prosperity. Americans know how to spend their money better than government bureaucrats and Minnesotans know how to spend their hard-earned dollars better than Washington. Today’s framework is an incredible first step towards our goal of modernizing and simplifying our archaic and overly burdensome tax code. “This framework identifies key areas of much-needed reform that will allow for a fairer and simpler tax code that all American families and businesses can understand. I am extremely pleased to see the new corporate tax rate target of 20 percent – something I’ve long advocated for through my CREATE Jobs Act – which will encourage United States businesses to keep their jobs and revenue here, while allowing them to once again be competitive internationally. Additionally, this plan will lead to certainty and permanency for our nation’s job creators so they can spend their time and resources growing their business rather than conforming with a complicated tax code. Lastly, I am encouraged by the focus on tax incentives such as the child tax credit, the charitable tax deduction and the home mortgage interest deduction on which the average American depends. “I look forward to having conversations with Minnesotans about this plan as it makes its way through the committee process, and am excited to play a role in our first tax code overhaul since 1986.” ###
09.15.2017	Based on preliminary rates, federal approval of Minnesota’s reinsurance program would help bring down premiums for several individual market health insurance plans in the state. Without federal approval, rates for many individual market plans could increase substantially. In a letter, the federal lawmakers urge Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price and Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin to complete their consideration of Minnesota’s waiver application as soon as possible WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, and Representatives Collin Peterson, Betty McCollum, Keith Ellison, Tim Walz, Rick Nolan, Erik Paulsen, Tom Emmer, and Jason Lewis today urged the U.S. Department of Treasury and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to grant Minnesota’s reinsurance waiver. Based on preliminary rates, federal approval of Minnesota’s reinsurance program would help bring down premiums for several individual market health insurance plans in the state. Without federal approval, rates for many individual market plans could increase substantially. In a letter, the federal lawmakers urged HHS Secretary Tom Price and Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin to complete their consideration of Minnesota’s waiver application as soon as possible. “On July 31, 2017, the Minnesota Department of Commerce released two sets of proposed individual health insurance rates: one set that assumes federal approval of the Minnesota reinsurance program and one that does not. These proposed rates show that federal approval of Minnesota's waiver application would have a significant impact on cost. By contrast, without federal approval, rates for many individual market plans could increase substantially,” the lawmakers wrote. “This matter is urgent because the Minnesota Department of Commerce must imminently finalize approval of the individual market rates. Accordingly, on behalf of our constituents, we urge you to complete your consideration of Minnesota’s waiver application as soon as possible.” The full text of the lawmakers’ letter is below. Dear Secretary Mnuchin and Secretary Price, We write to request that the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services grant Minnesota's application for a Section 1332 State Innovation Waiver as soon as possible. Earlier this year, the Minnesota Legislature voted to establish a state-based reinsurance program, the Minnesota Premium Security Program (MPSP). The Governor and both Democratic and Republican leaders strongly support this effort to address premium costs and access to affordable healthcare in our state. On July 31, 2017, the Minnesota Department of Commerce released two sets of proposed individual health insurance rates: one set that assumes federal approval of the Minnesota reinsurance program and one that does not. These proposed rates show that federal approval of Minnesota's waiver application would have a significant impact on cost. By contrast, without federal approval, rates for many individual market plans could increase substantially. This matter is urgent because the Minnesota Department of Commerce must imminently finalize approval of the individual market rates. Accordingly, on behalf of our constituents, we urge you to complete your consideration of Minnesota’s waiver application as soon as possible. Sincerely, ###
09.08.2017	(Courtesy of The Ripon Society) WASHINGTON, DC – With U.S. policy toward Cuba in a state of flux, The Ripon Society held a breakfast discussion yesterday morning with three Members of Congress who are working to end the Cold War-era embargo that has defined U.S.-Cuban relations for over 65 years and put in place a new set of economic policies that would bring certainty to the law and benefit both the people of Cuba and the United States. The Members participating in the discussion included U.S. Reps. Tom Emmer (R/MN-6), Kathy Castor (D/FL-14), and Darin LaHood (R/IL-18). The three belong to the Cuba Working Group, a bipartisan caucus in the House that was established to promote increased trade, travel and investment in Cuba, while promoting human rights in that country and improving the security posture of the United States. Emmer helped found the group in December of 2015, and opened his remarks by discussing why someone from his state is interested in this issue. “One of the first business groups to visit Cuba in the late ‘70s when President Carter was boosting up the travel restrictions happened to be a group from Minnesota,” he explained. “We are home to 17 Fortune 500 companies, and we have agriculture and manufacturing as the two primary drivers of our state's private economy. Minnesota is all about trade, and we also have a population that is all about trying to help other people. So when [restoring relations with] Cuba was a possibility, you not only had folks going down to Cuba from Minnesota for commerce possibilities, but also to try to help.” Emmer was elected to the U.S. House in 2014 after serving six years in the Minnesota House. A member of the Financial Services Committee, he is the co-sponsor of legislation that would lift the Cuba embargo and allow for businesses in the private sector to trade freely with Cuba, while prohibiting taxpayer funds to be used on promotion or development of this new market. “I came to Congress a couple years back with more of a Cold Warrior mentality,” he added, further expanding on his views. “I took a trip in June of 2015 to the island, and it completely changed my view of the people. They want a relationship with the United States of America. So I now talk about how important it is from an economic standpoint -- the opportunity to travel, the opportunity for the hospitality industry, for our agriculture industry, for manufacturers. You can go down the list. But for me, the real issue is not repeating history.” “This is more about our national security than anything else. We have an island that is 90 miles off of our Florida cost. It is in our backyard. It is a key to our relationships in the entire Western Hemisphere at this point in time. And we have people in our government today who still want to continue a policy that has frankly been an abject failure. Why? Well, because I guess they think doing the same thing over and over again and not getting a different result is not the definition of insanity … We put an embargo in to undermine the Castro regime, and in effect it has done just the opposite. It has empowered the Castro regime at the expense of the Cuban people --- the very people we are trying to help. And so we're going to keep doing this over and over? It makes no sense.” As for the promotion of human rights, Emmer said that is a goal that can best be achieved with more U.S. engagement and a greater American presence on the ground. “They made more advances in terms of human rights when Barack Obama took his delegation down to Cuba almost two years ago than had been made in years,” he stated. “You cannot change the human rights abuses if you are not on the island and if you are not present in creating some accountability and transparency. At the end of the day, this is what you have to look at. If we continue down the road we're pursuing, you actually risk having someone else move into Cuba -- someone who does not have the United States’ best interest in mind. Is it going to be China? Is it going to be Russia? Could it be the Iranians? Someone will fill that void if we are not there.” Castor agreed. “Think about how long this Cold War policy has been in place,” the Democratic lawmaker stated. “Over 50 years -- the embargo and a bar on the ability of Americas to travel freely. Americans can travel anywhere in the world. Up until recently, you could go to North Korea. You can go to Iran and you can go to Syria. What is it about this policy that says Americans don't have the fundamental right to travel that they enjoy everywhere else in the world? That's wrong. The embargo's wrong, and it's outdated. It has outlived its usefulness and it is causing a lot of damage.” Castor was elected to the House just over a decade ago after serving four years as a County Commissioner in her Florida District. A member of the steering committee of the Cuba Working Group and cosponsor of the legislation to lift the embargo, she said her interest in the issue was sparked in part by working with local families with relatives back in Cuba who came to her for help in dealing with the outdated – and often unjust -- law. “The number one constituent matter in my office in Tampa was just trying to work through the bureaucratic red tape to try to get families to travel an hour away to see each other,” she recounted. “Whether it was the grandkids to see their dying grandmother for the last time, or I even had a case with a family with a brother who had cancer and the bone marrow match was his sister in Cuba. Just think about the agony they were going through, and then subjecting them to that kind of bureaucratic red tape and having to fight with the State Department and others just to try to get them on that hour-long flight. It was very eye-opening to me. That's what helped me take on this issue, because I think that if we are going to improve human rights on the island of Cuba and improve business opportunities here in America and in Cuba, we've got to go full bore on the policy of engagement and turn the page on these Cold-War policies of the past. “We fought a war with Vietnam, reconciled, and now Vietnam – in their economic output and in our relationships -- is much healthier. Yet Cuba, 90 miles off the coast of the United States, remains stuck. I often think that it's the governments that get in the way -- the U.S. government and the government of Cuba. I think the Obama policy was right to empower everyday Cubans. In the times that I've traveled earlier in my Congressional tenure and years later, I've seen a dramatic change in the ability of cuentapropistas -- small business owners -- to build businesses, employ folks, and give them a new lease on life. “The wages there are very low except in the sectors where the Cuban government has allowed openings. Whether it's in restaurants or in the Airbnb space or some technology, these folks are creative and dynamic and they need support. By closing down the ability of Americans to travel or putting pressure on their families not to send remittances or blocking the ability of American businesses to partner with them, it is simply counterproductive in this day and age.” LaHood was elected to the House in 2015 after serving four years in the Illinois State Senate. A member of the Joint Economic Committee and Committees on Science and Natural Resources, he said his interest in reforming U.S. policy toward Cuba is, like Emmer and Castor, also driven by the needs and interests in the people he represents back home. “For me, it's about jobs and economic opportunities,” the Illinois Republican declared. “Of the 435 congressional districts, ours is the 9th largest in terms of corn and soybean production. Caterpillar is headquartered in our district, as is John Deere and ADM. I look at the economic opportunities, and what trade has done for a district like mine. Cuba is a very small market, but to be able to load up grain on the Mississippi River and the Illinois River and go down through the Gulf and go to Cuba from there -- it's an opportunity for us. My conservative farmers and the folks who live in my district, they understand it. They get it. They ask, ‘Why can't we do this? Why don't we have a market? Why don't you open this up?' You try to explain to them the reason for that, and it's difficult to do. "Listen, we all believe in human rights. We believe in democracy. We don't like dictators. We don't like what Castro and his regime have engaged in. But trade helps all boats rise. We've seen that around the world. Engagement, economic opportunities, and economic freedom – they all help countries get out of that socialist mentality.” Following their remarks, the three members were asked a number of questions, including one about the prospects that the embargo toward Cuba will be lifted in the coming year. "Well,” Emmer stated, “I felt much better when the Trump administration first took office. I actually thought that we would have a willing partner because of what he was talking about with national security, etc. Again, I'm not going to name names. But a handful of people have literally hijacked this issue because it's emotional. I can’t put myself in their shoes. I don't know what their family's experience was. I'm a kid from the Midwest. I'm not here to judge them for their strong feelings and how important this is. They had property stolen, they had relatives murdered and tortured. But we are now in the 21st century, and we are talking about where we go from here.” Castor concurred, and spoke of the positive developments that have occurred in the U.S.-Cuba relationship in recent years. “We have made such great progress,” she said. “Just a few years ago, there was no regular mail delivery between the U.S. and Cuba. We could get a package to China, to Russia, anywhere, but not to Cuba on a reasonable basis. Speaking of weather forecasting, we've made great strides there and it's important today. It used to be the Cubans said, 'No, hurricane hunters can't fly over Cuba to look at these storms.' Now, we are cooperating when it comes to weather forecasting … They are cooperating in law enforcement, they are cooperating in music, in science, and now we have got to make a larger step to move to lift the embargo.” LaHood was more blunt. “I am not optimistic at this point that the embargo will get lifted just from the rhetoric from the administration,” he stated matter-of-factly. “I think there is going to have to be something that occurs, an event of some sort, because you look at the conditions and threshold that the other side has put up, and they're really unattainable in some ways. You know, prosecuting the Castro family, or holding them accountable in some way, or making sure they are removed before you begin the conversation. I think that's a non-starter. “I think it’s a very, very difficult, uphill battle. When you talk to the folks on the other side -- to Tom's point -- everyone has a personal family story related to something that occurred to them and their family and their property. Again, I can't understand that because I wasn't in that situation. But at some point, you've got to move beyond that and get to the policy and the politics of how we move on.” To view the remarks of Reps. Emmer, Castor and LaHood at The Ripon Society’s breakfast discussion yesterday morning, please click on the link below: https://youtu.be/i7v553au3oc The Ripon Society is a public policy organization that was founded in 1962 and takes its name from the town where the Republican Party was born in 1854 – Ripon, Wisconsin. One of the main goals of The Ripon Society is to promote the ideas and principles that have made America great and contributed to the GOP’s success. These ideas include keeping our nation secure, keeping taxes low and having a federal government that is smaller, smarter and more accountable to the people. For more information on The Ripon Society, please visit www.riponsociety.org.
09.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement regarding Senator Franken’s refusal to support the nomination of Justice David Stras to the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals: “The United States is a nation of laws, and to maintain respect for the rule of law it is imperative we have individuals like Justice David Stras to uphold and defend our laws in courts around the country. A current member of the Minnesota Supreme Court, Stras is widely recognized as the most qualified person for this position, and is well regarded on both sides of the aisle. He boasts the highest rating from the American Bar Association, and has even sided with more liberal judges when it meant upholding the Constitution. “Justice Stras is one of the nation’s premier legal minds in the areas of federal courts, constitutional law, and, in his own words, the ‘proper, limited role of the judiciary.’ It is because of these traits, that Stras’ nomination to the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals garnered immense support from both sides of the aisle. Among those backing Stras were more than 100 Minnesota attorneys, a dozen members of Congress, and fellow Minnesota Supreme Court justices. “Unfortunately, Senator Franken simply could not move past political partisanship to do what is best for the people served by the Eighth Circuit Court. Instead, through his refusal to advance Justice Stras’ nomination, Senator Franken has chosen to be a roadblock in this procedural process, effectively denying the proper administration of justice. Seating Justice Stras was the first of many positions the administration will need to fill in order to restore our court systems to their proper functioning role. I am disheartened that Senator Franken has chosen to obstruct this lengthy process so early, and deeply concerned that the seat could now go to someone less qualified and from outside of Minnesota. I call on Senator Franken to reconsider his obstruction of the full consideration of Justice Stras.”Emmer applauded President Trump’s nomination of Justice David Stras in May. Click here to read the release. ###
09.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Tom Emmer’s (MN-06) amendment was adopted unanimously and added to H.R. 3354, the Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act of 2018. This amendment would roll back actions from the outgoing Obama Administration by prohibiting funds from being used to withdraw federal lands from mining or mineral exploration in the Rainy River Watershed on the Superior National Forest. It does not authorize or approve the development of any new mines, nor does it permit mining in the Boundary Waters Canoe Area or limit the environmental review process required for the development of new mines. Emmer joined debate on the House Floor this evening to speak on behalf of his amendment “Today we took a good and necessary first step to restore Minnesota’s rights to pursue safe, responsible and precise development of federal lands,” said Emmer. “Through this unanimous vote, we are sending a strong signal to the Administration that these lands, and the control of their resources, needs to remain with the people of Minnesota. I am thankful for the support from my colleagues and will continue to work towards bringing jobs, revenue and hope of a more prosperous future back to our great state.” The Emmer Amendment was Amendment #70 to H.R. 3354. Click here to read the full text.For Emmer’s related testimony before the House Natural Resource Committee, click here. ###
08.03.2017	Otsego, MN – Today, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) attended Minnesota Farmfest to participate in a listening session hosted by House Ag Committee Chairman Mike Conway. The purpose of this listening session was to hear firsthand the different perspectives and concerns of Minnesota’s farmers and agriculture industry in regards to the next Farm Bill. Agriculture is a key industry in Minnesota and Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District in particular. Since agriculture is such a vital component of Minnesota’s economy, Congressman Emmer places a high priority on his relationships with the state’s many farmers and agriculture groups, to better understand how he can help them thrive in his district, state and across the nation. (Ranking Member Collin Peterson, Congressman Tom Emmer, Chairman Mike Conaway) “Minnesota’s farmers work hard seven days a week, 365 days a year, so that our state, and nation remains fueled and well-fed,” said Emmer. “Without their work and dedication, we would not have a future, which is why it is imperative that my colleagues and I hear their input and give them a voice in Congress. I am proud to have had the opportunity to participate in this morning’s Farmfest listening session hosted by Chairman Conway and see so many of our colleagues in the great state of Minnesota for this important conversation. I am now even more optimistic that the next farm bill is well on its way to reflecting our farmer’s needs so we can provide for them, as they provide for us.” “Midwest agriculture is wide and diverse, and each sector faces different challenges and opportunities” said Chairman Conway. “I appreciated joining Congressman Emmer in Minnesota to hear directly from those most impacted by the farm bill about ways to improve economic conditions in farm country and all of rural America. I look forward to taking what we learned and using it as we continue crafting the next farm bill.” ###
08.03.2017	Otsego, MN – Yesterday, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) held an “Addressing the Skills Gap Summit” with educators, business owners and community leaders to discuss potential solutions to the skills gap crisis facing Minnesota, and the nation as a whole. In his time representing Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District, Emmer has toured many educational institutions to learn all about the incredible career and technical programs offered. Additionally, he has met with many business owners, school leaders, and representatives from different industries to learn about the devastating impact the skills gap is having on our economy and workforce. These tours and meetings inspired Congressman Emmer to hold a summit intended to advance partnerships that will work to address our workforce shortages. “One of the biggest falsehoods that we as a society are telling the generation of tomorrow is that they must attend a four-year university if they expect to thrive and prosper,” said Emmer. “This well-intended, but misinformed, advice has actually had the opposite effect, leaving many critical jobs unfilled and numerous Americans without the career skills that they need in order to drive our economy forward. We held this summit to address these concerns, and cultivate a conversation with the stakeholders who are – and must be – most involved in finding solutions. After listening to the different conversations and suggestions put forth, I am optimistic that we are well on our way to fixing this problem so we can get our workforce and economy back on track.” ###
08.01.2017	(Courtesy of the Congressional Western Caucus) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Paul A. Gosar D.D.S. (AZ-04), Western Caucus Members Mike Johnson (LA-04), Tom Emmer (MN-06), Greg Gianforte (MT-AL) and Doug Collins (GA-09), and Representatives Buddy Carter (GA-01) and Daniel Webster (FL-11) released the following statements after 30 Members of Congress signed and sent a letter to the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the House Committees on Natural Resources and on Agriculture requesting that those Committees work together to address the numerous regulatory inefficiencies and statutory roadblocks in the agriculture community by modernizing the Endangered Species Act (ESA) and similarly outdated laws and regulations:Congressman Johnson stated, “Farmers and ranchers are vital to our Louisiana economy and community. Unfortunately, out-of-control Washington bureaucrats have imposed overly burdensome regulations threatening their way of life and hindering their ability to work. The Endangered Species Act must be modernized to protect farmers and ranchers across the nation. They are the backbone of this nation and cannot afford to live under excessive regulations any longer.” “Northeast Georgia’s poultry and farming communities bring food, jobs and economic growth to our country. These hardworking producers have been unnecessarily burdened by federal policies including the Endangered Species Act, which serve neither farmers nor the Americans that depend on their products. I haven’t found a bureaucrat more motivated or more equipped to steward our natural resources than local farmers, and I support the House’s efforts to bring them relief from misguided government red tape,” said Congressman Collins.Congressman Emmer stated, “Today’s court ruling against the delisting of the gray wolf emphasizes why Congress needs to work to modernize the ESA. Minnesotans knows what is best for Minnesota, and we must work to be sure the voices of state and local stakeholders are taken into consideration. We cannot continue to force our farmers and ranchers to bear the brunt of these restrictions and costly regulations forced upon them by Washington bureaucrats. By modernizing the ESA, we have a real chance to bring our farmers, ranchers, agriculture community relief from the current regulatory regime.” “The long reach of unnecessary federal regulations threatens the livelihoods of Montana farmers and ranchers. The Endangered Species Act, along with other outdated federal mandates have empowered environmental extremism and jeopardize our Montana way of life. We need common sense reform,” said Congressman Gianforte. “Like most industries, overly restrictive mandates and nonsensical regulations from the federal government are choking the life out of family farms and ranches though out the country,” said Chairman Gosar. “Just yesterday, the House Committee on Agriculture heard testimony from an 8th generation farmer who indicated things are so tough that his family farm likely won’t survive another generation. The Endangered Species Act and federal rules affecting the Ag community need to be modernized and brought into the 21st century. Ranchers and farmers need relief. Wildlife and plants in danger of extinction need a functional system that meets recovery goals and gets these species off the endangered list. There is a lot that can be accomplished if we drop the rhetoric and work together.” Congressman Carter stated, “As Georgia’s top industry, the hard work of our farmers and ranchers contributes to the safest, most abundant and most affordable food supply in the world. These hardworking Americans need to be shielded from overregulation to ensure they are able to accomplish their important work without Washington standing in the way. One way to accomplish this is to modernize the Endangered Species Act (ESA) and similarly outdated laws and regulations and I look forward to working with my colleagues to make this happen.” “Agriculture is one of the three pillars of Florida’s economy. Farmers and ranchers all over Florida grow and raise the food that ends up on kitchen tables around the world,” said Congressman Webster. “The economic engine of agriculture must be complimented with sound, long-term policies that balance the importance of protecting our nation’s beautiful lands. Unfortunately, overzealous bureaucrats in Washington turned the Endangered Species Act (ESA) into a weapon wielded against hard-working Americans. With President Trump, we have an opportunity to reform the ESA to ensure that it meets its purpose without destroying the livelihoods of those who work the land,” he concluded. Background: Today, 30 Members of the House signed and sent a letter to the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the House Committees on Natural Resources and on Agriculture—Chairmen Rob Bishop and Mike Conaway, and Ranking Members Raul Grijalva and Collin Peterson—urging them to work jointly to address the numerous regulatory inefficiencies and statutory roadblocks in the agriculture community by modernizing the Endangered Species Act (ESA) and similarly outdated laws and regulations. To read the full signed letter click HERE. On April 26, 2017, President Trump signed an Executive Order (EO) titled, “Promoting Agriculture and Prosperity in Rural America.” The EO established an interagency task force and made clear that it is “in the national interest to ensure that regulatory burdens do not unnecessarily encumber agricultural production, harm rural communities, constrain economic growth, hamper job creation or increase the cost of food for Americans and our customers around the world.” Signers of the letter share these sentiments and believe that this Congress presents a bipartisan opportunity to address the many regulatory issues negatively impacting the agriculture community. They believe the Committees are well positioned to act on cost-saving, modernization measures that will bring the ESA and other rules into the 21st century. Signers indicated there may be no more important policy change for our nation’s agriculture community than reducing its crushing federal regulatory burden. The letter encourages the Committees to work together to adopt a system that induces and incentivizes thoughtful and collaborative regulation. Such a process will empower farmers and ranchers to do what they do best—produce food and other agriculture products in abundance for the American people and the rest of the world. The letter also makes clear that ESA and other federal regulations far too often result in a broken, burdensome process for farmers and ranchers, unfairly targeting them with costly compliance and unreasonable land restrictions. As Congress works to preserve our nation’s precious biodiversity while simultaneously growing our nation’s economy, we must loosen the current ineffective regulatory stranglehold in favor of one that functions as intended. The ESA was intended to be a tool to safeguard and rehabilitate species in need of special protections. However, private and governmental analyses alike indicate that the current law is failing to accomplish intended objectives. As Senator John Barrasso (R-WY), Chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, recently explained: Of 1,652 species of animals and plants in the U.S. listed as either endangered or threatened since the law was passed in 1973, only 47 species have been delisted due to recovery of the species. In other words, the Fish and Wildlife Service has concluded that less than 3 percent of species in the United States under the protection of the Endangered Species Act have recovered sufficiently to no longer necessitate the protection of the statute. As a doctor, if I admit 100 patients to the hospital and only 3 recover enough under my treatment to be discharged, I would deserve to lose my medical license. * * * Letter cosigners (30): Representatives Mark Amodei, Brian Babin, Andy Biggs, David Brat, Ken Buck, Earl L. ‘Buddy’ Carter, Liz Cheney, Doug Collins, Sean Duffy, Jeff Duncan, Tom Emmer, Trent Franks, Mike Gallagher, Greg Gianforte, Louie Gohmert, Paul Gosar, Jody Hice, Mike Johnson, Walter Jones, Steve King, Raul Labrador, Doug Lamborn, Tom McClintock, Alex Mooney, Steve Pearce, David Schweikert, Scott Tipton, David Valadao, Daniel Webster, Roger Williams. ###
07.27.2017	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) and Congressman Peter DeFazio (OR-04) reintroduced the Advancing and Promoting Programming (APP) Act. This introduction is in conjunction with the launch of the Congressional App Challenge, which kicked off today and both members are participating in. The APP Act will help American innovators more easily access the tools and resources necessary to create applications for mobile devices - otherwise known as apps. The App Act does so by creating a comprehensive website to provide individuals and small businesses with the information they need to find existing federal funding for the creation of apps as well as information on how to apply for that funding. Additionally, the App Act will help to update the current list of federal government apps by creating an app store where American consumers can rate and comment on the different government apps. This store will ensure the public is able to provide feedback, and obsolete apps are retired. Additionally, the App Act will provide government, non-profits, and businesses the resources to educate and train the next generation of programmers. “Our nation relies on technology now more than ever, so we must give American workers in the science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) fields the tools and skills to maintain a competitive edge and bring our country fully into the 21st century,” said Emmer. “This is something I have been committed to since taking office, which is not only demonstrated through my work on the App Act, but also with my office’s participation in the Congressional App Challenge, a competition that encourages students to develop their own app.” “Mobile technology reaches every corner of the world and impacts our economies, governments, and more,” said DeFazio. “As technology expands, so must our capacity to innovate and keep pace with the latest developments. The App Act will streamline federal resources and help the next generation of developers stay competitive in the global market.” Click here to watch Emmer & DeFazio's APP Act video “ACT | The App Association is heartened by the introduction of the Advancing and Promoting Programming (APP) Act, which would provide vital resources to our country’s tech companies and developers,” said App Association President Morgan Reed. “In addition to providing students with valuable resources for computer science education, this Act would make federal funding opportunities more easily available to the tech innovators driving job growth and adding value in virtually every sector of our country’s economy. Faced with a staggering skills gap that has left roughly 500,000 computing jobs unfilled, we are hopeful the APP Act will provide the resources to support the development of the bright minds fueling innovations in telemedicine, machine learning, the internet of things, and beyond. We applaud Representatives Tom Emmer and Pete DeFazio for their work to ensure their constituents, our members, and app developers across the country can acquire the skills needed to help local companies thrive.” The Advancing and Promoting Programming (APP) Act is H.R. 3428. Click here to read the full text. To learn about the Congressional App Challenge, click here. ###
07.27.2017	(Courtesy of the Congressional Western Caucus) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Paul A. Gosar D.D.S. (AZ-04), Chief Infrastructure and Forestry Officer Rep. Bruce Westerman (AR-04), Western Caucus member Rep. Tom Emmer (MN-06) and Chairman of Jobs for Minnesotans Nancy Norr released the following statements after a successful hearing in the House Committee on Natural Resources Subcommittee on Energy and Minerals Resources examining Rep. Emmer’s draft legislation which will allow responsible mineral production to continue in Northern Minnesota: “Today’s hearing was to bring forth a discussion on the potential to revitalize communities in northern Minnesota by recognizing the rights of Minnesotans to exercise their mineral claims if any proposed mining projects can satisfy all of our stringent environmental requirements,” said Congressman Emmer. “We have a real opportunity to reverse the politically motivated and short-sighted actions the Obama Administration enacted on their way out the door and bring good-paying jobs and revenue to a region that greatly needs it. Like all Minnesotans, I believe in preserving and protecting our natural resources and I have no doubt that we can find a way to preserve Minnesota’s pristine landscape without permanently destroying any future job creation or economic development in Minnesota. I am pleased we have taken action today to get us one step closer to allowing the research and exploration process to proceed, while protecting the potential future economic opportunities in the great state of Minnesota,” he concluded. “17,000 jobs, $2.5 billion annually for our economy and $3 billion for education are at risk if we don't block the misguided anti-mining actions from the Obama Administration in Minnesota. 26 bipartisan members of the House have urged Secretaries Zinke and Perdue to rescind the 420,000-acre plus mineral withdrawal application and renew the improperly terminated leases,” Chairman Gosar said. “Congress has explicitly authorized mineral production and multiple-use activities in the Superior National Forest via public law and in 2004 the Forest Service confirmed these authorized uses. Further, no one is proposing to mine in the 1.1 million acre Boundary Waters Wilderness Area and this area already has significant buffers. All we are asking for today with this bill is the opportunity to present mining plans in an area authorized by Congress to mine and to go through NEPA’s full environmental process. I applaud Rep. Emmer for his leadership and providing the people of Minnesota a voice with this commonsense legislation that recognizes the need to safely produce critical minerals right here in America.” Congressman Westerman said, “The ability to mine is important for both our national defense and economic well-being. The ability to produce military-grade weapons, smartphones, and so much more depends on our ability to mine America’s natural resources in a responsible manner. Rep. Emmer’s discussion draft would protect responsible mining operations in Minnesota and ensure that America’s defenses and technology sectors continue to have access to the minerals necessary to keep America strong militarily and economically.” Chairman Norr stated, “This legislation will correct a grave injustice imposed by federal agencies in the previous administration. An injustice that could decimate our economic future and create a significant aberration from the existing federal mineral exploration and environmental review processes. We seek your support to allow highly regulated mineral development and leasing to continue in one of the most mineral rich regions in the country…The Discussion Draft before you accomplishes many things. It will restore access to domestic minerals essential to our economy and national security, it will restore our government’s regulatory compact and the faith that Congress’ promises will be kept, and most important, will restore the economic future of thousands of Minnesotans.” Background: Today, the House Committee on Natural Resources Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources examined Rep. Tom Emmer’s (MN-06) draft legislation which will allow responsible mineral production to continue in Northern Minnesota. Nancy Norr, Chairman of Jobs for Minnesotans, testified in strong support of the bill. To watch the video of the hearing, read other witness testimony and view other important information click HERE. Rep. Gosar showed a video at the hearing produced by the people of Minnesota on this issue that can be viewed HERE. In the video, Dave Lislegard showed us Lake St. James, a reclaimed mine site that now provides the drinking water for the city of Aurora. He stated that this is some of the best water in the country. No one wants to contaminate Minnesota’s water or the boundary waters. In the waning days of the Obama Administration, federal land management agencies took several actions that could decimate local economies, stifle job creation and cause significant harm to K-12 education in Minnesota. Rep. Tom Emmer’s bill rejects this overreach, calls for the rescission of the proposed 420,000 plus-acre federal mineral withdrawal application and the renewal of two improperly terminated leases. In June, Reps. Gosar, Emmer, Westerman and Nolan toured several mining operations, held a stakeholder meeting and visited the proposed federal withdrawal area outside of the city of Ely, Minnesota. The comments they heard on the ground from American families, businesses and individuals who want these jobs and support these mining projects led to this effort. On June 30, 2017, 26 bipartisan members sent a letter to Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke and Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue calling for the rescission of the 420,000 plus acre mineral withdrawal and the renewal of two improperly terminated leases. To read the letter click HERE. To read the press release click HERE. On January 5, 2017, the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) proposed a 234,328-acre federal mineral withdrawal of National Forest System (NFS) lands, for a 20-year term, within the Rainy River Watershed on the Superior National Forest, immediately placing this vast area off limits to development for up to two years while the 20-year withdrawal is considered. The total withdrawal application boundary spans approximately 425,000 acres, including 95,000 acres of state school trust fund lands. In conjunction with this massive mineral withdrawal, the Obama Administration’s Bureau of Land Management (BLM) inappropriately rejected Twin Metals Minnesota’s application to renew two hard rock mineral leases in Minnesota’s Superior National Forest – leases that were signed in 1966 and renewed without controversy in 1989 and 2004. To date, Twin Metals has invested upward of $400 million – a significant investment – in reliance on two federal mineral leases that the BLM executed with the company's predecessors and renewed each time they expired. All told, Minnesota is projected to lose up to $3 billion in royalty revenues for the State’s Permanent School Trust Fund that would support nearly 900,000 K-12 students statewide if the withdrawal application and cancelled leases are not rejected by the new administration. If left unchecked, the anti-mining actions pursued by the Obama Administration will block the creation of thousands of American jobs and cost the U.S. economy billions of dollars. The University of Minnesota-Duluth estimates the creation of 12,000 construction jobs and 5,000 long-term mining jobs if mining projects already being pursued in Duluth Complex are allowed to move forward. These are good-paying jobs, as the average annual mining wage in Minnesota was $78,635 in 2015. These projects are also estimated to generate $2.5 billion annually for the economy. The proposed withdrawal also contradicts the legislative intent of Congress. In 1950, Congress took action to make minerals available for mineral exploration and development within the Superior National Forest. In 1978, Congress passed the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness Act (BWCAW), a historic compromise that prohibited mining within the Boundary Waters Area but explicitly permitted mining to occur in the Superior National Forest. Environmental stewardship and positive economic growth are not mutually exclusive. Our members support regulations that ensure environmentally-responsible mining in order to protect water quality and preserve the scenic beauty of the Boundary Waters area, where significant buffer zones already exist, including areas created by the BWCAW Act and the Minnesota Outdoor Recreation Act. Furthermore, any new mines proposed in the region will have to undergo, and adhere to, strict mandates and requirements under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), state laws and other regulations. Unfortunately, the environmental study affiliated with the withdrawal pre-empts this comprehensive review from taking place, blocking the opportunity for a project to even be considered. Minnesotans across the state have supported the development of the state’s mining industry, and specifically have voiced support for the Twin Metals project. Countless individuals and local businesses have weighed in against the actions of the Obama Administration. Government officials on both sides of the aisle have publically opposed these actions. In January, the Minnesota State Legislature sent a letter and “expressed their outrage at the recent politically driven decisions.” Additionally, the Lake County Board of Commissioners unanimously approved a resolution opposing the proposed withdrawal The Duluth Complex holds the world’s second largest copper deposit, third largest nickel deposit and second largest platinum-group metals deposit. ###
07.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) testified before the House Natural Resources Committee regarding his discussion draft on the United States Forest Service (USFS)’s pending withdrawal application in Northern Minnesota. Click above to watch testimony “Today’s hearing was to bring forth a discussion on the potential to revitalize communities in northern Minnesota by recognizing the rights of Minnesotans to exercise their mineral claims if any proposed mining projects can satisfy all of our stringent environmental requirements,” said Emmer. “We have a real opportunity to reverse the politically motivated and short-sighted actions the Obama Administration enacted on their way out the door and bring good-paying jobs and revenue to a region that greatly needs it. Like all Minnesotans, I believe in preserving and protecting our natural resources and I have no doubt that we can find a way to preserve Minnesota’s pristine landscape without permanently destroying any future job creation or economic development in Minnesota. I am pleased we have taken action today to get us one step closer to allowing the research and exploration process to proceed, while protecting the potential future economic opportunities in the great state of Minnesota.” The discussion draft before the House Natural Resources Committee aims to restrict broad mineral withdrawals unless they are approved by an Act of Congress. It would also renew certain mineral leases with preferential rights of renewal, consistent with current law, and provide that future leases in the area remain valid for 20 years, with 10-year renewal periods. Additionally, this proposal includes language that states, “Nothing in this section may be construed as permitting the prospecting for development and utilization of mineral resources within the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness (BWCA) or Mine Protection Area.” "Jobs for Minnesotans fully supports this legislation which provides hope and opportunity to Minnesota's mining region,” said Nancy Norr, Chair of Jobs for Minnesota. “All we ask of our elected officials and the federal agencies is to allow projects to go through the established and proven regulatory process under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA)." "I thank Congressman Emmer for bringing this important legislation forward," said Jason George, Legislative and Special Projects Director of the International Union of Operating Engineers Local 49. "Banning mining in a region that was set aside specifically for mining before a project has been put forward to study is not sound public policy. It is time that environmental extremists and Washington bureaucrats stop telling the good people of the Iron Range what is best for them." "RAMS (Range Association of Municipalities & Schools) thanks Congressman Emmer for his efforts to bring forth legislation that will allow continued exploration outside the protected buffer zone of the BWCA," said Steve Giorgi, Executive Director of RAMS. "The intervention by the USFS with their proposed land withdrawal has already had an economic impact on our region as reflected this spring when no new state leases were purchased the proposed withdrawal area." To read the text of the discussion draft, click here. For additional information, please read previous releases on: Emmer’s meeting with Secretary Perdue, a letter sent to Secretaries Perdue and Zinke, and a recent mining tour to Northern Minnesota. ###
07.24.2017	Washington D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) and Congressman Jason Lewis (MN-02) today announced that their offices will be participating in the 2017 Congressional App Challenge. Emmer, Lewis and Congressman Paulsen are the only members from the Minnesota delegation who currently plan to participate in this challenge. Established in 2013, the Congressional App Challenge was designed to encourage our nation’s students to become both interested and proficient in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) skills. It does so by inviting high school students to compete against their classmates and students across the state in creating their own mobile device applications, better known as an app. “I am very proud that my office will open up this great opportunity for students in Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District for the third year in a row,” said Emmer. “Not only that, but I am also pleased that my Republican colleagues in Minnesota will be joining in on the fun. Our nation is currently facing a major skills gap crisis, and the technology sector has been hit hard, making this challenge even more important. If our nation is to remain relevant, successful, and globally competitive, we must encourage the generation of tomorrow to take an interest in some of these important fields. I am happy that this challenge works to do just that, and I look forward to seeing the brilliant products that Minnesota’s students come up with.” "I'm excited to welcome students from across the 2nd District to participate in my first Congressional App Challenge,” said Lewis. “Since I was sworn in, I've made education a priority, and STEM is an area where our young people can step into the jobs of the future and continue to keep the US in place as the world-leader in technology. My office is available to answer any questions and I'll be watching out for some great submissions from our high-schoolers!" To learn more about the rules and requirements of this challenge, click here. ###
07.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Amy Klobuchar, Senator Al Franken, and Representative Tom Emmer today announced that the National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded a grant to St. Cloud State University to recruit, retain, and support students in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) disciplines. The NSF award of $4,999,656 will address first-year retention and the transition of community college students to a four-year university. “STEM education can prepare young people for high-tech, high-demand jobs,” Klobuchar said. “This grant will help St. Cloud State University create a supportive learning environment for the future engineers and scientists of tomorrow.” “I’m proud that this award will support students at St. Cloud State University and prepare them to compete in the 21st Century economy,” Franken said. “Students will be ready to take on high-skilled jobs after graduation and contribute to innovation in Minnesota and across our nation.” “We are in the midst of a digital revolution, and it is imperative we keep up with the changing times to ensure and improve our future success,” Emmer said. “In order for the United States to remain competitive, we must cultivate the important STEM skills in the generation of tomorrow, and this grant will help do just that.” The NSF “Academic Collaboration and Coordination Model to Ensure Student Success in STEM (ACCESS STEM): A Partnership to Improve, Recruitment, Retention, and Student Success” project provides research-based support services designed specifically for students who may be at risk of leaving their institution or STEM major. Klobuchar, one of the founding co-chairs of the Diversifying Technology Caucus and co-chair of the Women’s High Tech Coalition, has been a leader in the effort to develop a strong science and engineering workforce ready for the jobs of tomorrow. Her bipartisan legislation to encourage, recruit, and support women in STEM fields, the Inspiring the Next Space Pioneers, Innovators, and Explorers (INSPIRE) Women Act and Promoting Women in Entrepreneurship Act, was signed into law by the President in January. Klobuchar’s provisions to require the Director of the NSF to consider recommendations from organizations representing underrepresented groups for the STEM Education Advisory Panel and allow for research to better understand factors relevant to the retention of STEM teachers from underrepresented groups, including women and minorities, were also signed into law in the reauthorization of the America Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education, and Science (COMPETES) Act. In 2015, Klobuchar’s bipartisan provisions allowing school districts to award funding to create a STEM-focused specialty school or enhance an existing STEM program within a school were signed into law as part of the Every Student Succeeds Act. For many years, Sen. Franken, a member of the Senate Education Committee, has been a leading champion of efforts to close the "skills gap," which has left many employers in Minnesota and across the country with millions of jobs they can't fill because they can't find enough trained workers. In the past several Congresses, Sen. Franken has pushed his Community College to Career Fund Act to incentivize businesses to partner with the state's community and technical colleges on training and support efforts. When the Every Student Succeeds Act was signed into law, Sen. Franken fought to include several provisions that targeted funding for STEM education and teacher professional development, ensuring that states would be able to recruit top-notch STEM educators and keep them in the classroom. And earlier this year, he introduced his new Advancing Career Pathways Innovation Act to encourage local K-12 school districts in Minnesota and across the country to also explore partnerships with businesses to expose elementary, middle, and high school students to a variety of career pathways. ###
07.20.2017	Washington, D.C. – Last week, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) cosponsored the Championing Apprenticeships for New Careers and Employees in Technology (CHANCE in Tech) Act. “As I travel across Minnesota, employers often express their frustration with the current skills gap and worker shortage facing our state and the nation as a whole, especially as the tech sector expands in Minnesota,” said Emmer. “As of April, more than 15,000 jobs in Minnesota’s technology sector remained unfilled – jobs with average annual salaries of nearly $100,000. I have had the opportunity to tour some of the apprenticeship programs and private-public partnerships in the great state of Minnesota and it is clear these programs are going to be the key to solving the skills gap currently plaguing our nation. I am proud to cosponsor the CHANCE in Tech Act to foster the creation of these private-public partnerships and cultivate new apprenticeship programs so that the generation of tomorrow has access to education that will bring this nation fully into the 21st century and beyond.” “The U.S. is expected to have 1.8 million unfilled tech jobs by 2024. The deficit is not because of a lack of desire by American workers, but a dearth of workers with the necessary IT skills,” said Elizabeth Hyman, CompTIA’s Executive Vice President of Public Advocacy. “If neglected, the IT skills gap will affect our country’s ability to protect national security interests and to compete economically on the global stage. The CHANCE in Tech Act introduced today will address the growing IT talent challenge by encouraging public-private funding for apprenticeship programs in the technology sector and providing students with the necessary skills to compete in the 21st Century workforce.” The CHANCE in Tech Act will direct the Department of Labor to assist in the promotion and development of access to apprenticeships in the technology industry. The CHANCE in Tech Act is H.R. 3174. Click here to read the full text. ###
07.19.2017	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) participated in, and Co-Chaired, a Terrorism and Illicit Finance (TIF) Subcommittee hearing entitled “Managing Terrorism Financing Risk in Remittances and Money Transfers.” Click above to watch Congressman Emmer’s Opening Remarks “Every year, hundreds of billions of dollars in remittances and other value-transfer payments are sent around the world and play a crucial role in the lives and livelihood for millions of families,” said Emmer. “While much of the over $600 billion remittances sent in 2016 were used to support relatives across the globe, these transfers do remain vulnerable to exploitation by criminal and terror organizations. Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District in particular is home to one of the largest populations of Somali-Americans in the country, a population that relies heavily on the use of Money Service Businesses (MSBs) and other ways to send money to family members abroad, so it’s important we keep these lines of transfer open while ensuring the dollars sent are used for good, not evil.” “I am encouraged to see this subcommittee undertake the important challenge of reviewing our nation’s Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and Counter-Terrorist Financing (CTF) laws to ensure our regulatory framework allows for the continued flow of money to friends and family members abroad while eliminating the use of remittances as a means to conduct acts of terror both overseas and here at home,” said Emmer. “Destroying funding streams to terrorists and keeping families connected do not have to be mutually exclusive, and I have no doubt that we can improve our regulatory system as it relates to remittances to accomplish both of these goals.” During the hearing, Emmer’s questions focused on the current regulatory environment for Money Services Businesses and the impact it has on the practice of “de-risking.” Emmer heard testimony from expert witnesses on the negative effects of de-risking and solicited feedback on how best to prevent it from occurring. This is the first of a series of efforts by Congressman Emmer and the TIF Subcommittee to stem the current tide of de-risking and ultimately eliminate the use remittances as a means for financing acts of terror and other illicit activities.Congressman Emmer serves on the House Financial Services Committee. Emmer sits on the Subcommittee on Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises, the Subcommittee Monetary Policy and Trade, and the Subcommittee Hearing on Terror and Illicit Finance. ###
07.19.2017	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) hosted a meeting with Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue and Congressman Rick Nolan (MN-08) to urge the rejection of the U.S. Forest Service’s (USFS) application to withdraw approximately 425,000 acres of land from resource development in Minnesota. “I was pleased to organize and have a productive discussion with Secretary Perdue and Congressman Nolan to address an issue with significant importance to Minnesota’s economy,” said Emmer. “It is imperative the Trump Administration reverses the previous administration’s last-minute actions to withdraw more than 400,000 acres of land previously designated for resource development. Secretary Perdue expressed his willingness to partner with us on this important issue, to get government out of the way, and to allow our economy to flourish in Northern Minnesota and across the country.” Congressman Emmer led a letter in the House urging Secretary Perdue and Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke to halt the withdrawal process and reinstate leases in the area. This letter followed a Western Caucus trip to Northern Minnesota to see the proposed withdrawal area firsthand and talk to local Minnesotans, industry stakeholders, and elected officials in the impacted area. ###
07.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – Last week, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) participated in a hearing with the Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Securities and Investment to discuss the impact of the Department of Labor’s Fiduciary Rule. (Click above to watch video) “The Obama Administration enacted thousands of pages of regulations that led to uncertainty and lack of clarity for industries across the country, and sometimes harming the very Americans they were meant to protect,” said Emmer. “One example is the Department of Labor’s Fiduciary Rule. As one of the witnesses stated, as a direct result of the Fiduciary Rule, there has been a disruption across the financial industry with the ability to serve their clients. With the Trump Administration, we have an opportunity to return certainty to an industry that helps middle-class Americans plan and save for retirement. It is crucial we work to address this flawed rule and I am pleased Chairman Huizenga brought this issue before our subcommittee to do just that. Finalized on April 8, 2016, the Department of Labor’s “Fiduciary Rule” is one of the most expensive, non-environmental rules issued by the federal government in more than a decade. While well intended, concerns have been raised that the sweeping nature of the 1,023 page rule could lead to thousands of Americans losing access to sound investment and retirement advice. For key takeaways and quotes from witnesses, please read a statement from the subcommittee here. Congressman Emmer represents Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District and serves on the House Financial Services Committee. ###
07.14.2017	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) supported the passage of the FY18 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to ensure that our military has the tools and resources it needs to defend the United States. The NDAA is an important component of our national security. This bill helps to rebuild the United States military, increases the number of military personnel, and ensures that American troops have the resources necessary to effectively defend the nation and its people, and return home safely. Not only will the NDAA give American troops the resources necessary to carry out their jobs, but it will also give them a well-earned pay raise. The NDAA makes important investments in our missile defense capabilities to combat the dangers and threats our nation faces on a daily basis and also includes funding for projects in Minnesota like an indoor small-arms range for the Minnesota Air National Guard. “The number one role of the federal government is to keep the American people and our homeland safe from all threats both foreign and domestic,” said Emmer. “Last year, the House promised to address military readiness and funding, and today, with the passage of the NDAA we are honoring that promise.” “This legislation will not just improve national security and help our active duty members, but it will assist our veterans as well,” said Emmer. “I am pleased the Atomic Veterans Service Medal Act which I sponsored was added to the NDAA to finally recognize these service members who sacrificed so much for this great nation. I am proud of our work to rebuild our military, strengthen national security, as well as take care of our troops and veterans – and I look forward to continuing these efforts in the 115th Congress. The Atomic Veterans Service Medal Act (H.R. 2754) which Emmer co-authored with Congressman McGovern (MA-03) was added to the NDAA as an amendment and unanimously adopted into the final legislation. This amendment requires the Department of Defense to issue a service medal to the veterans or surviving families of those members of our Armed Forces who participated in above-ground nuclear weapons testing; were part of the U.S. military occupation forces in or around Hiroshima and Nagasaki before 1946; or were held as POWs in or near Hiroshima or Nagasaki. To read the full text of the FY18 National Defense Authorization Act, click here. ###
07.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Earlier this week, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) joined members of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit to discuss a series of legislative proposals which will provide targeted regulatory relief to Minnesota’s community banks and credit unions while strengthening our overall financial system. (Click above to watch video) While Congressman Emmer is not a member of the Financial Institutions Subcommittee, Chairman Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO) allowed him to join the hearing to highlight two initiatives Emmer is helping to lead in Congress: The Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act (H.R. 2954), and the Keeping Capital Local for Underserved Communities Act (H.R. 2403). "Continued pressure from regulators in Washington make it difficult for our community financial institutions to provide the tools and capital our communities need to grow and thrive," said Emmer. "These legislative proposals highlight the fact that banks and credit unions on Main Street Minnesota are not like big banks on Wall Street, and therefore should not be regulated as such. Even further, these reforms empower community banks, minority-owned banks, and community-development banks with additional depository tools to help consumers keep and utilize more capital in their communities." The text of H.R. 2954 and substantially similar text of H.R. 2403 was incorporated by Chairman Luetkemeyer into his Community Lending Enhancement and Regulatory Relief Act (CLEARR) of 2017 (H.R. 2133), which was discussed at the hearing.You can learn more about the Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act or the Keeping Capital Local for Underserved Communities Act, here and here. Congressman Emmer serves on the House Financial Services Committee. Emmer sits on the Subcommittee on Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises, the Subcommittee Monetary Policy and Trade, and the Subcommittee Hearing on Terror and Illicit Finance. ###
06.30.2017	Washington, D.C. – Following a recent trip to Northern Minnesota led by Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) and Congressman Rick Nolan (MN-08), dozens of members in the U.S. House of Representatives sent a letter to Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue and Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke urging the rejection of an application issued by the Obama administration to withdraw large portions of Northern Minnesota from mineral development and exploration. Northern Minnesota is home to several resource development projects that still require environmental assessments before implementation. Congressman Emmer’s trip and subsequent letter are in response to the Obama Administration’s anti-mining actions that would restrict access to more than 400,000 acres of land, result in the loss of thousands of good paying jobs, and have a drastic impact on Minnesota’s local economies. “I proudly represent the great state of Minnesota, and sometimes that requires me to speak for Minnesotans outside of my district,” said Emmer. “Through numerous meetings, tours and phone calls, it was clear that Minnesota’s workers and industry officials speak with one voice on this issue – a voice I was happy to convey to my colleagues in Washington, D.C. The result was resounding support for reducing this roadblock put in place in the waning days of the Obama Administration. Throughout our nation’s history, the mining and mineral industry in northern Minnesota has worked to fulfill our resource needs. It deserves a chance to show once again that it can develop these areas in an environmentally responsible manner.” “I have no doubt that we can find a way to preserve our state’s pristine landscape without ensuring it becomes devoid of the economic development or job creation needed to thrive,” said Emmer. “Underground mining can take decades to plan and execute and must be done in accordance with the appropriate environmental and permitting regulations. With the potential to bring jobs to Northern Minnesota for decades to come, we must get government out of the way so that leases can be renewed, studies can be conducted, and Minnesotan’s can ensure the safe, responsible, and precise development of our state.”To read the full letter and list of signers, click here.
06.26.2017	(Courtesy of the Congressional Western Caucus) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Paul A. Gosar D.D.S. (AZ-04), Executive Vice Chairman Scott Tipton (CO-03), Chief Rules Officer Dan Newhouse (WA-04), Chairman Emeritus Steve Pearce (NM-02), Chief Forestry Officer Bruce Westerman (AR-04), GOP Conference Chairwoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Western Caucus members Rep. Tom Emmer (MN-06), Rep. Doug Lamborn (CO-05), Rep. Mike Johnson (LA-04), Rep. Raúl Labrador (ID-01), Rep. Marthy McSally (AZ-02), Rep. Ralph Abraham (LA-05), Rep. Roger Marshall (KS-01), Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01, Rep. Andy Biggs (AZ-05), Rep. Doug Collins (GA-09), Rep. Markwayne Mullin (OK-02), Rep. Kristi Noem (SD-At Large), Rep. Liz Cheney (WY-At Large) and Rep. Kevin Cramer (ND-At Large) released the following statements in response to the Trump Administration’s release of a proposed rule that will kill the Obama Administration’s “Waters of the United States” (WOTUS) Rule by effectively re-codifying the Clean Water Act as it existed prior to 2015: “Today’s announcement is excellent news for communities throughout the country,” said Chairman Gosar. “The Obama Administration threatened the very livelihoods of farmers, ranchers, small businesses and water users when unilaterally enacting the job-killing WOTUS Rule by executive fiat. The Trump Administration has already made great strides in rolling back this unconstitutional mandate and I am thrilled to see EPA Administrator Pruitt continue that good work with today’s proposed rule. Western Caucus members look forward to working closely with the administration to put a nail in the coffin of Gina McCarthy’s water grab. ” “This announcement from Administrator Pruitt is welcome news. State law and priority-based systems have ensured clean, safe, and reliable water supplies for over a century in Colorado and the West. The WOTUS rule would have usurped long-held state water law and threatened access to private water rights. Western water users will now have much needed certainty while the EPA re-writes the definition of ‘Waters of the United States,’” said Congressman Tipton Congressman Newhouse stated, “I applaud the action taken by the EPA and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to follow up on President Trump’s order to review the intrusive and overreaching Waters of the United States rule. I look forward to working with my colleagues and EPA Administrator Pruitt to replace the ill-conceived WOTUS rule with a commonsense proposal that protects clean water, as well as the water and property rights of farmers, ranchers, small businesses, and water users across the country.” Congressman Pearce remarked, “This is great news for stronger job growth throughout New Mexico. Under the WOTUS Rule, Washington bureaucrats were given complete authority to regulate small streams along with natural and manmade ditches on lands owned by farmers, ranchers, and small businesses. This unlawful expansion of power proposed by the Obama Administration would drive up costs for landowners and cost thousands of jobs. I’m pleased to see the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers recommit to strengthening rural economies.” Congressman Westerman said, “I am happy that the administration has listened to the concerns of those most impacted by this egregious, unconstitutional overreach by the Environmental Protection Agency. The decision to withdraw the previous administration’s WOTUS rule is a win for private property rights and will have a positive impact on farmers, ranchers, and other job creators.” “WOTUS is one of the most burdensome EPA rules of the Obama Administration. You think about the impact it’s had on rural communities, on our cattlemen and farmers— it’s making it more and more difficult for hardworking Americans to be successful,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. “It’s something I’ve heard about frequently in Eastern Washington. Thank you to President Trump and his administration for taking action to ensure this rule no longer targets our rural communities.” “I am pleased with today’s actions by the Trump Administration to repeal the harmful and overly burdensome WOTUS rule,” said Congressman Emmer. “While there is still work to be done to redefine WOTUS, this step gives our nation’s farmers, manufacturers and home builders greater certainty and gets the federal government out of their way. This is a welcome move that will benefit our economy today and for years to come.” Congressman Lamborn said, “The previous administration used the vague language in the WOTUS Rule to harm local communities—including ranchers, farmers, small business owners. I am grateful that this new ruling will establish regulatory certainty and restore order to state and tribal water laws that should have jurisdiction over these bodies of water. I look forward to a revision of this rule that will empower local landowners instead of giving power solely to the federal government.” Congressman Johnson remarked, “The so called ‘WOTUS Rule’ was a gross overreach by the Obama Administration and put mud puddles and backyard ditches under government control. Farmers and every day Americans all across the country have been subjected to new, burdensome regulations that kill jobs and further hinder the economy. Removing this rule will restore common sense to water regulation and return power back to the states and to the people.” Congressman Labrador stated, “I applaud the Trump administration for continuing to roll back excessive regulations that are harming Idaho’s businesses and communities. I strongly opposed the previous administration’s ‘WOTUS’ rule and I worked with my colleagues on a legislative fix. Regulatory reform is critical to Idaho’s economy, and I appreciate the administration for continuing to show leadership on these types of issues.” “WOTUS is a sweeping regulation written by unelected bureaucrats that would give the EPA jurisdiction over any type of body of water on private land—lakes, ponds, creeks, and even desert washes,” remarked Congresswoman McSally. “I have heard from countless small businesses, farmers, and ranchers that this rule prevents them from doing their job, which is why I led dozens of my colleagues in Congress in writing to the Administration in February urging the President to reverse this rule for the sake of Southern Arizona and communities throughout the United States. I am pleased with the EPA’s decision to repeal the harmful WOTUS rule—and I know that Americans across the country are relieved by this news.” “I represent one of the largest row crop districts in the nation, and nearly every farmer I talk to wants this rule repealed,” stated Congressman Abraham. “As an active farmer myself, I understand and share their frustrations with WOTUS. Today’s news is a welcomed relief for farmers around this country, and I thank President Trump and Administrator Pruitt for the actions they’ve taken so far to repeal this terrible rule.” "I commend and thank the Trump Administration for their decisive and effective actions to repeal the misguided Waters of the United States rule,” said Congressman Marshall. “As Kansas farmers, ranchers, businesses and even municipalities know all too well, WOTUS dramatically expanded the reach of the federal government with minimal improvements in water quality. Today’s announcement serves as a tremendous relief to Kansans and provides the regulatory certainty we need to grow. This is yet another exciting step in fulfilling this Administration and Congress’ promise to return government to its proper role." Congressman Gohmert said, “Washington bureaucrats in cubicles should not be deciding the fate of our waterways, nor should they be allowed to completely and arbitrarily control the economic fate of landowners even to the point of ending their ability to make a living. Unelected bureaucrats have, for years, been enviously dreaming of the day they could control American landowners' property by the backdoor methods of completely controlling everything involving water on or near the land. Repealing the Obama Administration’s WOTUS Rule is essential in getting the federal government out of everyday farming operations. It is neither right nor fair to subject producers and landowners to jurisdictional protocols and extraordinary levels of compliance charges. Today the EPA took a giant step forward in safeguarding the water rights of hard-working Americans and ending the federal power grab the Obama Administration engineered. It is a victory for those who love liberty and something called private property.” Congressman Biggs stated, “I applaud Administrator Pruitt for his proposal to repeal the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) Rule, which was one of the most onerous rules from the Obama administration. WOTUS was opposed by over 200 organizations and local communities and would have had devastating effects on western states, including Arizona. This action provides another example that the Trump administration favors freedom and prosperity for our economy over regulatory outreach, and we join the administration in their efforts.” “Northeast Georgia farmers, ranchers, and small businesses are natural conservationists who have been overburdened by the illogical Waters of the United States regulation,” said Congressman Doug Collins. “I applaud the Army Corps of Engineers and Environmental Protection Agency for their move to repeal the WOTUS rule in favor of statutes that actually serve our communities and steward their natural resources wisely.” “Since the previous administration put the WOTUS Rule in place, I have been fighting tooth and nail to overturn it,” Congressman Mullin said. “The harmful effects it has on our farmers, ranchers, and small businesses are felt nationwide. Moreover, the WOTUS Rule allowed Washington bureaucrats to regulate the streams and creeks in the backyards of Oklahomans, when in reality these bureaucrats don’t know the first thing about a backyard like mine.” “The rule proposed today by the EPA and Army Corps of Engineers delivers the long overdue relief from this unlawful water grab that our farmers and ranchers desperately need. I’m grateful to EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt for acting swiftly to repeal this misguided rule.” “Under the Obama-era WOTUS rule, treating your lawn for mosquitos, putting up a fence in your backyard or spraying your crops could become federally regulated activities that carry substantial fines if violations occur – knowingly or unknowingly. The Trump administration is right to propose a repeal,” said Congresswoman Noem. Congresswoman Cheney remarked, “The Clean Water Rule was a power grab by the Obama Administration that attempted to expand federal control and regulations well beyond the initial scope of Waters of the U.S. The rule threatened the loss of precious resources for hardworking ranchers and farmers in Wyoming, and if left unchecked, would have devastated our rural economy. I am pleased to see EPA Administrator Pruitt and the Army Corps of Engineers taking these steps to return power to the states and provide them with regulatory certainty. I also remain committed to working in Congress towards a full repeal of burdensome regulations imposed by the previous administration.” “Today’s action marks the end of step one in a two-step process to undo the Obama Administration’s overreach to even further expand the federal government’s control of our land. This regulatory relief is not only important to our farmers, ranchers, and energy producers, but any individual or business wanting to undertake a construction project. Reestablishing the federal government’s role to only navigable waters under any reasonable person’s definition will help unleash economic development and put power back in the hands of the people closest to a project’s impact,” said Congressman Cramer. Background: (Courtesy of the EPA) Today, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Army, and the Army Corps of Engineers (the agencies) released a proposed rule to rescind the Clean Water Rule and re-codify the regulatory text that existed prior to 2015 defining "waters of the United States" or WOTUS. For the pre-publication Federal Register Notice and additional information click HERE. This action would, when finalized, provide certainty in the interim, pending a second rulemaking in which the agencies will engage in a substantive re-evaluation of the definition of "waters of the United States." The proposed rule would be implemented in accordance with Supreme Court decisions, agency guidance, and longstanding practice. This proposed rule follows the February 28, 2017, Presidential Executive Order on "Restoring the Rule of Law, Federalism, and Economic Growth by Reviewing the 'Waters of the United States' Rule." The February Order states that it is in the national interest to ensure that the Nation's navigable waters are kept free from pollution, while at the same time promoting economic growth, minimizing regulatory uncertainty, and showing due regard for the roles of Congress and the States under the Constitution. To meet these objectives, the agencies intend to follow an expeditious, two-step process that will provide certainty across the country. The proposed rule would recodify the identical regulatory text that was in place prior to the 2015 Clean Water Rule and that is currently in place as a result of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit's stay of the 2015 rule. Therefore, this action, when final, will not change current practice with respect to how the definition applies. The agencies have also begun deliberations and outreach on the second step rulemaking involving a re-evaluation and revision of the definition of "waters of the United States" in accordance with the President Trump’s Executive Order. (Courtesy of the Congressional Western Caucus) On February 28, 2017, President Trump signed Executive Order 13778 requiring the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works to review the Obama Administration’s Waters of the United States (WOTUS) Rule and rescind any aspect of WOTUS inconsistent with federal law in order to ensure economic growth, restore the Rule of Law and minimize regulatory uncertainty. The text of Executive Order 13778 can be found HERE. A press release from the Congressional Western Caucus praising this action can be found HERE. On March 25, 2014, the EPA and the Corps released a proposed rule that would assert Clean Water Act jurisdiction over nearly all areas with even the slightest of connections to water resources, including man-made conveyances. WOTUS was slated to go into effect August 28, 2015. Fortunately, the Sixth Circuit issued a nationwide stay and temporarily blocked implementation of this rule. The Obama Administration’s WOTUS Rule would cause significant harm to rural Americans throughout the country, including farmers, ranchers, small businesses, water users and other property owners. This flawed mandate directly contradicts prior U.S. Supreme Court decisions, which imposed limits on the extent of federal Clean Water Act authority. More than 200 organizations and local municipalities have publicly declared their opposition to the proposed WOTUS rule as a result. The Heartland Institute has stated, “In reality, the language of the EPA rule is so vague this ‘clarification’ could grant Washington, D.C. jurisdiction over any body of water anywhere. It was to apply to any water or wetland deemed to have a ‘significant nexus’ to any navigable waterway, with the significant nexus, as described by a Wall Street Journal editorial, so widely interpreted as to include ‘any creek, pond or prairie pothole’ and ‘any land within a 100-year floodplain and 1,500 feet of the high water mark or, alternatively, within the 100-year floodplain and 4,000 feet of waters within their claimed jurisdiction.’ Essentially, the WOTUS rule would put EPA in charge of every piece of land occasionally containing any amount of concentrated water, practically down to the puddle level.’” On May 12, 2015, the House passed H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act, by a vote of 261-155. This critical legislation required the EPA and Corps of Engineers to formally withdraw the agencies’ proposed rule that would redefine WOTUS and any subsequent final rule. Chairman Gosar and multiple members of the Western Caucus joined the Chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Bill Shuster in introducing this bill. Click HERE to read more. In July 2015, Chairman Gosar submitted revelatory evidence into the Congressional Record from senior Army Corps of Engineer employees that expressed serious legal and scientific deficiencies with the Obama Administration’s WOTUS rule. ###
06.23.2017	[WASHINGTON D.C.] U.S. Rep. Rick Nolan led the full Minnesota Delegation of the U.S. House of Representatives in a letter today pledging support for the community health center (CHC) program and extending its primary funding stream. “This loss of revenue jeopardizes access to primary care services for low-income Minnesotans across the state – not only in rural areas such as Cook, but also in the Twin Cities Metro, where residents face challenges accessing primary care services,” the Members wrote to Leadership of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health. Health center funding will decrease nearly 70% starting October 1st if Congress does not act to extend their “Section 330” funding – resulting in the loss of nearly $27 million of their overall revenue and jeopardizing care for the 181,000 low-income Minnesotans served by the State’s 17 CHCs. To read the full letter, please click here. ###
06.21.2017	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) reintroduced the Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act to bring much needed regulatory relief to community banks and credit unions across the country. While well-intentioned, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act’s one-size-fits-all regulatory scheme placed numerous excessive and unnecessary regulations on small banks and credit unions who had nothing to do with the 2008 collapse. One in particular, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB)’s revised Regulation C final rule - under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA) – will go into effect on January 1, 2018. Regulation C requires covered banks and credit unions to collect dozens of new data points on loan applications they receive and report this data to the CFPB. “There is a time and a place for regulation, but imposing new and unnecessary mandates and reporting requirements on our community financial institutions is most certainly a step too far,” said Emmer. “Not only are our small banks and credit unions being forced to close up shop, these stifling regulations are making it harder for entrepreneurs and American families to get the mortgages, car loans and the business financing they need. Through my Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act, we will be able to cut red-tape and bring much needed regulatory relief to our local financial institutions so Americans can once again achieve the American Dream.” The Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act exempts small banks and credit unions from the updated reporting requirements of Regulation C if they are: Lenders that have originated 1,000 or fewer closed-end mortgages (typical mortgage for a purchase or refinance of a home) in each of the two preceding calendar years will be exempt from reporting on such loans; or are Lenders that have originated 2,000 or fewer open-end lines of credit (such as a typical home equity loan) in each of the two preceding calendar years will be exempt from reporting on such loans. Additionally, the bill repeals the HMDA amendments included in Dodd-Frank and withdraws the CFPB’s rule to impose the new and modified HMDA data points. This legislation is endorsed by the National Association of Federally-Insured Credit Unions and the Independent Community Bankers of America.Congressman Emmer is a member of the House Financial Services Committee.The Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act is H.R. 2954. Click here to read the full text. ###
06.21.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Financial Services Committee approved a series of bills to reform and improve the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). Established by Congress in 1968, the NFIP provides insurance for properties at risk of flooding and was intended to reduce the threat of future flood damage by aiding in mitigation and assistance efforts. Today, the NFIP carries an annual $1.4 billion deficit on top of the $24.6 billion in debt it already holds on its balance sheet. As the federal government continues to pay hundreds of billions in disaster recovery costs in addition to the subsidies provided by the NFIP, homeowners, lenders, and insurers agree, the program is in desperate need of reform. “With 5.1 million policyholders nationwide and nearly $25 billion in debt, the NFIP, like so many federal programs, is in desperate need of reform,” said Emmer. “Although Minnesota is not a coastal-state, more than 10,000 policyholders in my state face many of the same challenges and issues as those in Florida, New Jersey and Louisiana. These are real taxpayers who deserve a program that works for them today and in the years to come. I am pleased to join my colleagues in the House Financial Services Committee to pass this reform to bring the National Flood Insurance Program back to solvency so it works for all Americans.” The Committee approved a total of seven bills as part of an effort to reauthorize and reform National Flood Insurance Program. These efforts will extend the program – which is set to expire on September 30, 2017 – for an additional five years and takes key steps to: protect current and future homeowners; improve mapping and mitigation efforts; keep taxpayers off-the-hook for future federal bailouts; and allow for private innovation and American ingenuity to make this program more efficient and effective in the future.Congressman Emmer represents Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District and sits on the House Financial Services Committee.To read more about these reforms, visit the committee's website here. ###
06.19.2017	(Courtesy of the Congressional Western Caucus) Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Paul A. Gosar D.D.S. (AZ-04), Chief Infrastructure and Forestry Officer Rep. Bruce Westerman (AR-04), Western Caucus member Rep. Tom Emmer (MN-06) and Rep. Rick Nolan (MN-08) released the following statements after touring several mining operations, conducting a stakeholder meeting, and visiting the proposed federal withdrawal area adjacent to the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness outside of the city of Ely, Minnesota: “The Obama Administration waged its war on mining until the very last days of its tenure and the ramifications of those activities have far reaching negative impacts on our local economies, jobs and K-12 education systems. By proposing a massive mineral withdrawal of more than 425,000 acres of land when you include state and private land in northern Minnesota, the Obama Administration attempted to decimate a crucial component of the Minnesota economy and wreaked havoc on the public education system in the state. When more than 17,000 jobs and billions of dollars in revenue are at stake, legacy building at the expense of our children’s future and education is simply unacceptable,” said Chairman Gosar. “Today we heard from families, business owners and local stakeholders who know that we can create these jobs and protect Minnesota’s recreational economy. I am proud to join my colleagues in calling on Secretary Zinke and Secretary Purdue to rescind this flat out assault on the mining industry and move these projects forward.” “I am glad Congressmen Gosar and Westerman were able to join me and Congressman Nolan today as we highlighted the crucial role that Minnesota’s natural resources play in the future success of our state and region,” remarked Congressman Emmer. “Withdrawing approximately 425,000 acres of land from potential exploration will undermine the long history of contributions northern Minnesotans have made to our country and will devastate the economies of our state and local communities. Unfortunately, over the past eight years, the Obama Administration stifled numerous industries with regulations, and the mining industry serves as a prime example. Washington bureaucracy continues to hamper hundreds of millions of dollars in current and future mining investment in our state, even before an environmental assessment is allowed to commence. It’s time to get government out of the way so we can find ways to bring good paying jobs and revenue to Minnesota in the safest and most environmentally friendly manner possible. I look forward to working with my colleagues and the Trump Administration to do just that." “To be clear, I will never support or allow mining within the Boundary Waters Canoe Wilderness Area (BWCA) under ANY circumstances. That said, prohibiting exploration outside of the BWCA buffer zone, before a project proposal is even made, is simply irresponsible,” Congressman Nolan said. “We should never be afraid of exploration and discovery, or using science and facts to dictate important decisions. We must allow mining initiatives to proceed through the proper, rigorous and thorough environmental review process – using science, facts and technology to guide our review of actual projects and environmental technology.” “I was glad to join with Chairman Gosar, Rep. Nolan, and Rep. Emmer on today’s visit to Twin Metals. This company has proposed an expansion that will pump billions of dollars into the local economy, create thousands of jobs, and provide funding for K-12 education in Minnesota while maintaining the highest levels of environmental stewardship and sustainability,” said Congressman Westerman. “But unnecessary rules handed down by unelected Washington, D.C., bureaucrats that violate agreements going back to the 1950's, threaten its future. After visiting the operation and meeting with stakeholders in Northern Minnesota, I understand this project's value to our country and our economy. I ask Secretaries Zinke and Perdue to honor long-standing agreements between the federal government and our citizens by lifting these last minute rules handed down by the Obama Administration, allowing Americans to continue investing in jobs, economic development, and education.” Background: Following today’s tours and meetings, the members announced they are circulating a draft letter to other Members of Congress calling on Secretary Zinke and Secretary Perdue to rescind the 234,328-acre mineral withdrawal application and renew two improperly terminated leases. To read the draft letter click HERE. In the waning days of the Obama Administration, federal land management agencies took several actions that could decimate local economies, stifle job creation and cause significant harm to K-12 education in Minnesota. On January 5, 2017, the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) proposed a 234,328-acre federal mineral withdrawal of National Forest System (NFS) lands, for a 20-year term, within the Rainy River Watershed on the Superior National Forest, immediately placing this vast area off limits to development for up to two years while the withdrawal is considered. The total withdrawal application boundary spans approximately 425,000 acres, including 95,000 acres of state school trust fund lands. In conjunction with this massive mineral withdrawal, the Obama Administration’s Bureau of Land Management (BLM) inappropriately rejected Twin Metals Minnesota’s application to renew two hard rock mineral leases in Minnesota’s Superior National Forest – leases that were signed in 1966 and renewed without controversy in 1989 and 2004. To date, Twin Metals has reportedly invested upward of $400 million – a significant investment – in reliance on two federal mineral leases that the BLM executed with the company's predecessors and renewed each time they expired. According to Twin Metals, BLM’s refusal to renew the leases was based on a March 2016 opinion by the then-Solicitor of the Department of the Interior, concluding – based on flawed legal analysis - that BLM had the discretion to deny the renewal of the mineral leases. In addition, Minnesota’s Constitution mandates that state trust lands ensure a long-term source of funds for K-12 education. In fiscal years 2014 and 2015, revenues from state mineral leases derived from school trust lands in Minnesota totaled $51.6 million and $36.8 million, respectively. All told, Minnesota is projected to lose up to $3 billion in royalty revenues for the State’s Permanent School Trust Fund that would support nearly 900,000 K-12 students statewide if the withdrawal application and cancelled leases are not rejected by the new administration. If left unchecked, the anti-mining actions pursued by the Obama Administration will block the creation of thousands of American jobs and cost the U.S. economy billions of dollars. The University of Minnesota-Duluth estimates the creation of 12,000 construction jobs and 5,000 long-term mining jobs if mining projects already being pursued in Duluth Complex are allowed to move forward. These are good-paying jobs, as the average annual mining wage in Minnesota was $78,635 in 2015. These projects are also estimated to generate $2.5 billion annually for the economy. The proposed withdrawal also contradicts the legislative intent of Congress. In 1950, Congress took action to make minerals available for mineral exploration and development within the Superior National Forest. In 1978, Congress passed the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness Act (BWCAW), a historic compromise that prohibited mining within the Boundary Waters Area but explicitly permitted mining to occur in the Superior National Forest. Environmental stewardship and positive economic growth are not mutually exclusive. Our members We support regulations that ensure environmentally-responsible mining in order to protect water quality and preserve the scenic beauty of the Boundary Waters area, where significant buffer zones already exist, including areas created by the BWCAW Act and the Minnesota Outdoor Recreation Act. Furthermore, any new mines proposed in the region will have to undergo, and adhere to, strict mandates and requirements under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), state laws and other regulations. Unfortunately, the environmental study affiliated with the withdrawal pre-empts this comprehensive review from taking place, blocking the opportunity for a project to even be considered. Minnesotans across the state have supported the development of the state’s mining industry, and specifically have voiced support for the Twin Metals project. Countless individuals and local businesses have weighed in against the actions of the Obama Administration. Government officials on both sides of the aisle have publically opposed these actions. In January, the Minnesota State Legislature sent a letter and “expressed their outrage at the recent politically driven decisions.” Additionally, the Lake County Board of Commissioners unanimously approved a resolution opposing the proposed withdrawal. ###
06.16.2017	Washington, D.C. ­– Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement in regards to the Administration’s rollback of the United States’ engagement efforts with Cuba: “I am extremely disappointed with President Trump’s announcement he is going to ‘roll back’ the progress made in improving our relationship with Cuba. Through today’s actions, his Administration claims that he is honoring a campaign promise and fighting for the Cuban people. Yet, by returning to the failed policy of the past 55 years, the Administration moves no closer to helping improve the human rights situation in Cuba and stands to violate the President's number one campaign promise and constitutional responsibility- to keep the American people and our homeland safe. “With today’s directive, the Administration is limiting our opportunities to improve the human rights and religious liberties of the Cuban people, not expanding them. This policy decision will hurt the United States economically, making it harder for our nation’s farmers to access new markets and cutting the knees out from under our travel and manufacturing industries. Perhaps most importantly, today’s announcement creates a very real security risk for the American people and our homeland by inviting foreign nations into our backyard to fill a void that today’s announcement is creating. “Today is not the end of this discussion; it is yet another chapter in a long and complex history between the United States and Cuba. My colleagues and I will continue to advocate for human rights and religious freedoms, a more secure hemisphere, and new economic opportunities for American farmers and businesses by improving our relationship with Cuba, not retreating. “The voices of our policy makers must represent the voices of the overwhelming majority of Americans who favor improving our relationship with Cuba. I hope as we go forward, the President will remember he was elected to challenge the status quo - not to be part of it. “We will be on the right side of history and lift this failed embargo.” ###
06.09.2017	Washington, D.C. – This week, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) spoke on the House Floor to recognize the hardworking Minnesotans who drive the state’s dairy industry. “Our dairy farmers are some of the hardest working folks around and they are crucial to the current and future success of our state and nation,” said Emmer. “These men and women bring jobs and revenue to Minnesota, so helping them thrive must be a priority. That is why during National Dairy Month, I was happy to see U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue put the interests of American dairy farmers first during his trip to Canada. Additionally, I was pleased to be able to honor our dairy farmers on the House Floor and celebrate their incredible contributions to the United States.” Congressman Emmer’s comments follow Secretary Perdue’s recent visit to Canada where he sought to address recent changes to their milk classification system. This system has had a detrimental impact on the U.S. dairy sector, which relies heavily on exports. Additionally, earlier this year, Emmer, along with his colleagues, called on President Trump to uphold current agreements and oppose Canada’s new policies that are hurting American dairy exports. Minnesota’s dairy industry includes nearly 500,000 cows and is the 2nd largest livestock sector in the state. Minnesota is also home to 3,470 dairy farms which is responsible for 9,457 jobs. Last year alone, Minnesota produced nearly 10 billion pounds of milk with Stearns County, in the Sixth Congressional District, coming in as the largest dairy-producing county in the state. To view the full text of the letter sent to President Trump, click here. ###​
06.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Emmer (MN-06) joined his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives to overhaul Dodd-Frank through the passage of the Financial CHOICE Act. “Following our country’s financial crisis nearly ten years ago, Congress delivered a bright, shiny package called the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act,” said Emmer. “The American people were promised an end to Washington bailouts, more protection for consumers and a more prosperous economy. Unfortunately, we got quite the opposite. Dodd-Frank has led to one of the slowest economic recoveries in 80 years, has failed to end bailouts and has enabled the growth of government’s excessive, unnecessary and overreaching regulations harming American entrepreneurs and consumers. In fact, Dodd-Frank has resulted in 27,669 new regulatory restrictions leading to more than 73 million hours of paperwork and more than $36 billion in compliance costs for the financial service industry. While big banks have gotten bigger, our community banks and credit unions – the lifeline of Main Street – are closing up shop, with Minnesota having lost 25 percent of our local financial institutions in the past seven years. Thankfully, today Congress intervened.” “Through the passage of the Financial CHOICE Act, we begin to undo the redundant and excessive bureaucratic regulations that are strangling our community banks and credit unions,” said Emmer. “This legislation will remove the roadblock stifling our economic success by fostering an increased access to capital for our small business owners and entrepreneurs. It increases Congressional oversight and transparency, encourages a more accountable Federal Reserve, repeals the Fiduciary Rule and the list of necessary reforms goes on and on. Today, the House successfully passed reforms to shift power from Wall Street and Washington bureaucrats and return it back to Main Street and the American people where it belongs, and I am proud to support this major reform.” Provisions from Emmer’s Micro-Offering Safe Harbor Act, Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act and FSOC Reform Act are included in the Financial CHOICE Act. These bills improve access to capital for small businesses and start-ups; ease the reporting burden on financial institutions when issuing mortgages to families and first time homebuyers; and promote accountability by bringing federal regulators like the Financial Stability Oversight Committee under the purview of the congressional appropriations process. The Financial Choice Act is H.R. 10, Emmer is a cosponsor. Congressman Emmer is a member of the House Financial Services Committee and spoke on the House Floor during debate of the Financial CHOICE Act. Click here to view video. ###
06.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Tom Emmer, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Anoka County-Blaine Airport a grant of $322,216 for safety improvements. “Investments in our infrastructure help create jobs while enhancing public safety,” Klobuchar said. “By investing in safety at the Anoka County-Blaine Airport, we are making an important down payment on the economy of the region.” “I’m pleased to see an infrastructure investment that focuses on the future of the Anoka County-Blaine Airport and the surrounding community,” Franken said. “These funds will improve safety, create good jobs, and support the regional economy.”|“The Anoka-County-Blaine Airport plays an important role by bringing jobs, revenue and ease of travel to the area,” Emmer said. “Investing in infrastructure is crucial to our future success. I applaud the Department of Transportation’s grant for Anoka County to ensure the safety of our transportation infrastructure.” This grant will allow the airport to install a lighting system and reconstruct its taxiway. ###
05.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, U.S. Representatives Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Tom Emmer (R-MN) and U.S. Senator Edward J. Markey (D-MA) reintroduced H.R. 2754, the Atomic Veterans Service Medal Act, a bipartisan and bicameral bill that would authorize the award of a military service medal to members of the Armed Forces who were exposed to ionizing radiation as a result of participation in the testing of nuclear weapons or under other circumstances. Between 1945 and 1962, about 225,000 members of our Armed Forces participated in hundreds of nuclear weapons tests. These GIs became known as the Atomic Veterans. They were placed in extremely dangerous areas and constantly exposed to radiation in performance of their duties. Sworn to secrecy, they could not even speak of their service. Presidents George H. W. Bush and Bill Clinton recognized their valiant service, and acted to provide specialized care and compensation for their harrowing duty. “America has a responsibility to honor all of our veterans and the sacrifices they made to serve our country. Tragically, many of these Atomic Veterans have already died, without receiving recognition. They kept a code of silence that likely led to many passing away too soon,” Congressman Jim McGovern (D-Mass.) said. “It is long past time for the Defense Department to honor their unique service with a medal recognizing all that they and their families have done to keep us safe. This bipartisan bill will help us to finally right this wrong and I urge Congress to pass it.” “Our veterans are the best our nation has to offer,” said Congressman Tom Emmer (R-Minn.). “They dedicate their lives and sacrifice so much to protect our freedoms and liberties, so the least we can do is show them our immense gratitude. Unfortunately, we have since lost many of our Atomic Veterans, but I am honored to work with Congressman McGovern and Senator Markey to ensure these brave soldiers get the recognition they deserve.” “As part of our country’s nuclear program, hundreds of thousands of brave U.S. servicemembers – our Atomic Vets -- participated in atmospheric tests, exposing themselves to grave risks, without true recognition for their sacrifice,” Senator Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) said. “Many of these brave patriots suffered from radiation-related diseases and other health issues. As a nation, we must honor their sacrifice, and this legislation takes an important step in that direction.” Keith Kiefer, the Director of the National Association of Atomic Veterans commented, "The National Association of Atomic Veterans has worked hard to achieve acknowledgement of the consequences of exposure to the invisible bullets of radiation exposure. We thank Congressmen McGoven and Emmer and Senator Markey for spearheading our cause in the 2017 legislative session." Joining Congressmen McGovern and Emmer as original cosponsors of the House bill include Representatives Walter Jones (R-NC), Katherine Clark (D-MA), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Keith Ellison (D-MN), and Rick Nolan (D-MN). ###
05.23.2017	Washington, D.C. – Last month, the Minnesota Delegation, led by Congressman Emmer and Congresswoman McCollum, sent a letter to Secretary Chao and Secretary Tillerson requesting full and fair enforcement of United States open skies agreements. Current violations of these agreements, specifically by Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, puts U.S. airline companies and international hubs such as the Minneapolis/St. Paul International Airport at a competitive disadvantage, having a direct impact on jobs and revenue. The full text of the letter, which was signed by Reps. Tim Walz, Jason Lewis, Erik Paulsen, Betty McCollum, Keith Ellison, Tom Emmer, Collin Peterson and Rick Nolan, is below:Dear Secretary Tillerson and Secretary Chao:We are writing in regard to recent reports that Qatar and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) have provided over $50 billion in subsidies to their state-owned airlines. We are particularly concerned about the impact the unfair competition caused by these subsidies will have on aviation jobs and air service in the State of Minnesota. Qatar and UAE air carriers are using their government subsidies to launch international service that would not be possible without government backing. These new routes are coming at the expense of the U.S. airlines’ international networks, American jobs, and ultimately will harm consumers. The subsidies are also in direct violation of our international aviation “Open Skies” agreements with the UAE and Qatar as the subsidies do not give U.S. carriers and their employees a fair and equal opportunity to compete. In addition, these Gulf carriers are increasingly adding subsidized routes to the U.S. from Europe and Asia. Emirates currently offers a roundtrip flight between New York City and Milan, Italy and recently started a new nonstop flight between New York City and Athens, Greece. These flights would not be viable without subsidies. If additional subsidized routes continue to be added it will negatively impact air service and employment in Minnesota. Subsidized flights into hubs like Minneapolis/St. Paul International Airport and other regional domestic hubs will shift passengers away from U.S. carriers and hurt service to U.S. hubs as well as the small and medium-sized communities they serve. We are concerned that as subsidized capacity continues to grow, U.S. international and domestic connecting flights may be discontinued leading to a loss of good-paying aviation jobs in our state.We urge you to enforce our international Open Skies agreements with Qatar and the UAE and ensure that U.S. aviation workers are able to compete on a level playing field.Thank you for your consideration of our views. Final version with signatures can be found here.
05.19.2017	Washington D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) reintroduced his legislation, the National Interchange/Intersection Safety Construction Program (NIISCP) Act, which prioritizes funding for intersections and interchanges, improves safety, and increases local control over federal transportation dollars. The NIISCP Act will prioritize a portion of federal highway funds for interchange and intersection development, and allow projects to compete for those funds. This legislation will not increase spending or require additional appropriations, rather a portion of annual existing federal highway funds will be targeted for local entities to apply and compete. To be eligible for grants under the NIISCP Act, projects on the National Highway System are selected on a competitive basis and must be supported by local entities such as states, cities or counties. “One of the government’s most essential jobs is to maintain efficient and safe transportation infrastructure,” said Emmer. “Unfortunately, we’ve fallen behind in this area, much to the detriment of the great state of Minnesota. The NIISCP Act puts local governments back in charge of how and where our tax dollars are spent in order to reduce accidents and save lives. Minnesotans know firsthand the insufficient interchanges and intersections on US 10, Highway 55 and I-94. This bill will not only set aside funds dedicated to making sure intersections and interchanges are safe, but it will also relieve congestion so Minnesotans can keep moving and our state’s businesses can grow and thrive.” More than half of crashes that involve injuries occur at or near intersections. Deteriorating interchanges are not only responsible for needless injuries and deaths, they cost our country in lost economic development. Between 2014 and 2015, congestion costs in Minnesota increased 37.6 percent, according to the American Transportation Research Institute (ATRI). The NIISCP Act not only addresses a very real and immediate need, it also increases congressional oversight by requiring a report from the Secretary detailing approved grants. You can read the text of the NIISCP Act here and view a summary of the legislation here.
05.19.2017	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tom Emmer (R-MN) and Congresswoman Grace Meng (D-NY) have reintroduced the Grant Residency for Additional Doctors (GRAD) Act of 2017, legislation that would direct the State Department to streamline the visa approval process for international physicians who are scheduled to work at hospitals in the United States, many of them in rural and underserved areas that face severe doctor shortages.Currently, foreign physicians scheduled to serve their residencies at American hospitals are encountering extremely long delays in obtaining J-1 visas from U.S. Embassies in their countries. These unnecessary holdups have resulted in major dilemmas for those doctors and the U.S. hospitals. In many instances, the delays have forced hospitals to withdraw offers from foreign physicians who had already accepted. "I am pleased to work with Congresswoman Meng to improve access to care across the country,” said Congressman Emmer. “The GRAD Act takes steps to alleviate the physician shortage and address the J-1 visa backlog currently plaguing our health care system. It also works to ensure our foreign service officers working at U.S. Embassies around the globe have adequate training to streamline and speed up the approval process, all while increasing government oversight. This legislation not only helps doctors complete their residencies in America, it will bring much needed relief to hospitals, particularly our underserved citizens like those in rural Minnesota who are in great need of care."“The excessive delays in the visa approval process for foreign doctors are only making our country’s doctor shortages even worse,” said Congresswoman Meng. “There are many underserved communities that count on foreign doctors to fill critical positions in their hospitals, and the visa approval process can prevent these doctors from helping people in need of medical care. But this is a problem with a simple solution. Let’s remove the unnecessary barriers that prevent foreign physicians from receiving their visas on time.” Emmer and Meng's bill would require the Secretary of State to designate a State Department officer or employee to facilitate the expedited review of J-1 visa applicants slated to travel to the U.S for graduate medical education or training. The measure would also require that the expedited review be the sole responsibility of this officer or employee from March to June, since the majority of residency programs begin each July. In addition, the legislation would mandate that Foreign Service officers at relevant embassies receive training related to medical graduates and medical graduate programs.The J-1 is a temporary nonimmigrant visa that international physicians use to work in U.S. medical residency programs. ###
05.16.2017	Otsego, MN – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) today announced the winners of the Congressional Art Competition for high school students living in Minnesota’s Sixth District. First place went to Elizabeth (Lizzie) Eggers, a sophomore at Blaine High school for her charcoal and acrylic painting entitled “Soul Dance.” This painting portrays two people swing dancing with their shadows behind them. Elizabeth is the daughter of Mark and Laurie Eggers. Her art instructor is Pat Undis. Soul Dance will be displayed in the tunnel connecting the Cannon House Office Building to the United States Capitol, which is traveled daily by members of Congress, staff, and visitors. Second place went to Mason Chartier, a senior at St. Michael-Albertville High School, for his ink drawing entitled “Running on Empty.” This painting portrays an empty honey jar surrounded by dead bees. Mason is the son of John and Darla Chartier. His art teacher is Sara Henrikson. Running on Empty will be displayed in Emmer's Washington D.C. office for all visitors to see. Third place went to Esther Stoy, a junior at Blaine High School, for her acrylic painting entitled “Little Miss Sunshine.” This painting portrays a child-like personification of the sun at the beach. Esther is the daughter of John and Suzanne Stoy. Her art teacher is Pat Undis. Esther was also the winner of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition. “This year’s submissions for the Congressional Art Competition were incredibly impressive, making choosing a winner a very tough choice for our judges,” said Emmer. “I am so proud of the talent of the students of Minnesota’s Sixth District, and I look forward to seeing that talent displayed in the United States Capitol this year.” The Congressional Art Competition is an annual competition for high school students across the United States. The winner from each district wins the chance to travel to Washington D.C. to visit with their Representative and see their artwork displayed in person. ###
05.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06), Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04), and Senator Amy Klobuchar issued the following statement following the President signing the U.S. Wants to Compete for a World Expo Act, (H.R. 534) into law. “This legislation becoming law will ensure Minnesota has the chance to compete and showcase our many success stories and contributions on the global stage,” said Emmer. “Minnesota is a fantastic state, and this excellent opportunity will allow us to highlight Minnesota’s natural beauty and unique culture and incredible innovative spirit, all while bringing more revenue to Minnesota’s businesses. I am excited that we are one-step closer to realizing our dream of Minnesota hosting the World’s Fair and I thank President Trump for sharing this goal.” “This bill is a bipartisan solution that levels the playing field and lets Minnesota and the United States compete. By ending our harmful, self-imposed isolation from the BIE, the United States will once again be in a position to host a World Expo and showcase the innovation, culture, and beauty of our great nation,” said McCollum. “Minnesota’s bid intends to focus on health innovation based on the theme Wellness and Well-Being for All. Minnesota’s health care industry is advanced, global, and innovative – and it deserves the spotlight. Hosting the World Expo in 2023 would be a remarkable event for the people of our state and today we are moving forward to that goal.” “Innovation and creativity are at the heart of Minnesota. From our iconic infrastructure to cutting-edge advances in biomedical research, hosting the World’s Fair in 2023 will allow the world to experience all that our state has to offer,” said Klobuchar. “By enacting this bipartisan legislation, we are closer to hosting the World’s Fair, which can boost Minnesota’s economy, our tourism industry, and our country’s competitiveness around the globe.” World’s Fairs or Expos are designed to highlight all that a country has to offer. Unfortunately, the United States has not hosted a World’s Fair since 1984. Even though the U.S. was a founding member of the Bureau of International Expositions (BIE) - the intergovernmental organization charged with overseeing World Expos - the United States withdrew its membership in 2001 and has not been able to compete for the chance to host an expo since. The U.S. Wants to Compete for a World Expo Act (H.R. 534) fixes this problem by granting the Secretary of State the authority to rejoin the BIE. This will afford states like Minnesota the opportunity to compete on a global stage to host a World’s Fair. Congressman Emmer and Congresswoman McCollum introduced H.R. 534 in the House, and Senator Klobuchar ensured its passage in the Senate. ###
05.09.2017	Otsego, M.N. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) applauds President Trump’s nomination of Justice David Stras to the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals. Following his graduation from the University of Kansas School of Law, Justice David Stras has built an impressive resume of experience during his legal career. He has worked in support of the highest court in the land by clerking for the Honorable Clarence Thomas. He also has private sector experience, has worked as a professor at the University of Minnesota Law School, and has clerked for the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth and Ninth Circuits. Stras currently serves on the Minnesota Supreme Court following his appointment by Governor Pawlenty in 2010 and his election in 2012. “I commend President Trump on his nomination of the Honorable David Stras to the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals, and was pleased to submit his name to the President for consideration. As an Associate Justice on the Minnesota Supreme Court, Justice Stras is one of the nation’s premier legal minds in the areas of federal courts, constitutional law, and in his own words, the ‘proper, limited role of the judiciary.’ His originalist and textualist approach to the Constitution, and his sharp legal aptitude will undoubtedly serve the Eighth Circuit well for decades to come. I firmly believe that Justice Stras will serve as a strong defender of the Constitution on the Eighth Circuit, and I was pleased to support his nomination not only for a position on the Court of Appeals, but also for consideration as a justice to the Supreme Court of the United States. I look forward to a swift and deliberate confirmation from my colleagues in the United States Senate and am pleased to see the Trump Administration uphold its constitutional commitment to our country and the Eighth Circuit.” ###
05.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement after the House Financial Services Committee voted to pass the Financial Creating Hope and Opportunity for Investors, Consumers and Entrepreneurs Act, H.R. 10, also known as the Financial CHOICE Act. “Yesterday, Congress took a great first step towards unwinding the regulatory and financial mess that is the Dodd-Frank Act. Just about seven years ago, Americans were promised an end to Washington bailouts, improved consumer protections, and a stronger economy – with the passage of Dodd-Frank. Unfortunately, we were all greatly misled, but help is on the way. I was proud to join Chairman Hensarling and my colleagues on the House Financial Services Committee to support the passage of the Financial CHOICE Act yesterday. This legislation works to reduce the out-of-control regulations stifling our banks, credit unions and small businesses on Main Street. It ensures that our families and entrepreneurs have the financial tools they need to grow, invest, and thrive. The CHOICE Act also increases congressional oversight and accountability, taking control out of the hands of unelected bureaucrats and returning it to Congress and the people. Additionally, I was pleased to see a number of reforms adopted into this important bill from legislation I have introduced. The CHOICE Act includes language from my FSOC Reform Act, to enhance transparency and oversight by granting Congress the power to approve the budget of the Financial Stability Oversight Council and the Office of Financial Research. It also includes provisions from my Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act to give relief to nearly 3,500 small banks and credit unions across the country by allowing exemptions from complying with unnecessary, burdensome regulations. Lastly, this legislation includes the technical amendment from my Micro Offering Safe Harbor Act to help small businesses and entrepreneurs by increasing access to capital. Yesterday was a huge win for our financial services industry, the United States economy, and the American consumer, and I am proud to support it.” ###
05.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Emmer released the below statement following the passage of the American Health Care Act (AHCA): “Today, the House took a big first step in putting the states and the American people back in charge of their health care, by passing the American Health Care Act (AHCA). Under Obamacare, Minnesotans were forced to sit by helplessly as their premiums increased faster than 46 other states. The effects were so dramatic that there was a 34 percent decrease in the number of Minnesotans getting coverage on the individual market over the past two years alone. Men and women were dropped from their coverage, small business owners had to cut hours or stop offering coverage to their employees, and choices were eliminated for consumers. In fact, without special intervention, two counties in Minnesota’s Sixth would not have had any coverage options whatsoever. While the AHCA is not perfect, there are many areas it gets right. This is what President Trump campaigned on and what he asked for, and the House has delivered. First off, the AHCA gives control back to the states and the people rather than Washington bureaucrats forcing a one-size-fits-all policy that doesn’t work for all Americans. It focuses on rebuilding a market-based system, increasing competition and choices to expand access to quality, affordable health care for people across the country. The AHCA protects Americans, ensuring they cannot be denied coverage based on their gender or whether or not they have a preexisting condition. Additionally, it keeps policies the American people overwhelmingly support, like allowing dependents to stay on their parents insurance until the age of 26. Lastly, it reduces the tax burdens that are imposed on an already overtaxed population and will reduce our astronomical deficit over the next decade. Our work on the health care system has just begun. Congress will continue to support policies that roll back federal mandates, reduce premiums, and improve access to coverage. For example, in March, the House passed the Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act and the Small Business Health Fairness Act. These bills are aimed at making insurance companies subject to antitrust laws and unfair trade practices like any other company, and allow small businesses to band together and negotiate for lower premiums, all while making insurance companies compete for their dollars. And, earlier today, the House approved legislation to ensure Members of Congress and staff are subject to these changes as well, because any law that is good enough for the American people is good enough for us. In the 115th Congress, we will continue to put the American people first and I look forward to working with my colleagues and President Trump to do just that.” ###
04.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement in support of President Trump’s commitment to reforming the United States tax code: “Today, President Trump and his Administration took steps to reform our nation’s out-of-control, archaic and burdensome tax system. Not only does President Trump’s proposal aim to simplify the tax code by cutting the overall number of tax brackets in half, but it also reduces the burden placed on our nation’s job creators. I share the President’s commitment to reducing the individual as well as the corporate tax rate to ensure we keep revenue, tax dollars and jobs right here in the United States. Families and businesses alike have been struggling due to our 70,000+ page tax code, but under the Administration’s and House GOP’s proposals, businesses will be able to focus less on compliance and more on growing and expanding, while families will see more of their hard-earned income returned to them each year. I am encouraged by the Trump Administration’s plan and continued progress Congress is making to reform our tax code, and look forward to collaborating with House Leadership and the Trump Administration with proposals of my own, like the CREATE Jobs Act (H.R. 533). We have a historic opportunity to reform our tax code in ways that will benefit future generations of Americans and provide much needed relief for middle-class families and businesses across this country.” ###
04.26.2017	(Courtesy of the Congressional Western Caucus) WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today, Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Paul A. Gosar D.D.S. (AZ-04), Chief Defense and Interior Officer Rep. Chris Stewart (UT-02), Chairman Emeritus Rep. Steve Pearce (NM-02), Vice Chairman for Indian Affairs and Oceans Rep. Don Young (AK-At Large), Chairman Emeritus Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) and Western Caucus members Speaker Paul Ryan (WI-01), Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (CA-23), Rep. Tom Emmer (MN-06), Rep. Markwayne Mullin (OK-02), Rep. Aumua Amata (American Samoa-At Large), Rep. Doug LaMalfa (CA-01), Rep. Doug Lamborn (CO-05), Rep. Jason Chaffetz (UT-03) and Rep. Raúl Labrador (ID-01) issued the following statements after President Donald Trump signed an Executive Order requiring Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke for a review of the 1906 Antiquities Act: Chairman Gosar said, “After enduring the Obama Administration’s tyrannical land grabs, I am elated by President Trump’s action to require a formal review of misguided monument declarations over the past 20 years that have restricted massive swaths of land and water throughout the country. President Obama’s abuse of a century-old law allowed one man to unilaterally lock up more than 550 million acres with the stroke of a pen. Local stakeholders deserve to have a voice in the land management process and I am pleased they will finally be included in the conversation. I applaud President Trump and look forward to working closely with Secretary Zinke during this review. However, this fight won’t be over and communities won’t be safe until Congress reforms the antiquated Antiquities Act.” “Over the years, the original intent of the Antiquities Act has morphed well beyond the original intent of the Act, which was to preserve the ‘smallest area compatible with proper care and management of the objects to be protected’. These land grabs occur with no input from Congress or the local communities most impacted by the designations. It’s an emotional issue to communities around the Bears Ears and Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monuments, as it affects and threatens their ways of life. That’s why I believe this Executive Order asking for a review of National Monuments is both a healthy and necessary process,” said Congressman Stewart. “Utahns deserve a collaborative land management process that ensures local residents have a seat at the table.” “The last several Presidents have abused the Antiquities Act by creating expansive monuments that have disregarded input from local communities and governments who are affected the most by these designations. New Mexicans, and people across the nation, should be able to access federal lands for recreation, hunting, grazing, and the economic opportunity that comes with it. We all share the common goal of preserving the natural beauty we are blessed to have in the West, but responsible conservation has to consider how these actions affect the surrounding communities and local economies,” said Congressman Pearce. “I support today’s Executive Order that puts surrounding communities back in the driver’s seat by calling for an appropriate review of previously designated monuments.” Congressman Young said, “For too long, we’ve seen the crippling impacts associated with the monument designation process, all with little to no consultation or support of those that live in or rely upon the areas. I welcome today’s actions and remain committed to reforming the outdated monument designation process from a top down executive mandate to a locally driven, bottom-up approach. The days of Presidents unilaterally closing off thousands of acres of land or water must change.” “Today’s action sends the powerful message that communities will no longer take a back seat to out-of-state special interest groups. I’m pleased to see President Trump recognize long-standing abuses of the Antiquities Act. It was created with noble intent and for limited purposes, but has been hijacked to set aside increasingly large and restricted areas of land without public input,” stated Congressman Bishop. “I applaud the Trump administration’s clear commitment to do what past administrations refused to do, actually talk to real people who live in the area. This EO is not the end of the story, we will work the Trump administration and our communities to get this right.” Speaker Ryan said, “The Antiquities Act is a century-old law that has been hijacked by executive overreach in recent years. While designating monuments is a noble goal, this law, like many others, has strayed far from its original purpose. Presidents have used the law to lock up thousands of acres of lands and water with the stroke of a pen, disregarding the needs and concerns of local communities. I comment the Trump administration for stopping this cycle of executive abuse and beginning a review of past designations.” “Government must still retain the authority to preserve our nation’s most treasured sites, but that authority was clearly abused by the Obama Administration when it restricted over 550 million acres in 34 national monuments under the Antiquities Act. The Antiquities Act was not intended to restrict state and local usage of such a large amount of territory. This abuse of federal authority and the subsequent disruption of the wellbeing of communities and citizens is the exact kind of behavior from Washington that the American people are sick of. Local control is not only better policy; it respects the American people who can get along just fine without a distant government controlling all the details of their lives,” said Majority Leader McCarthy. “President Trump and House Republicans will work together to offer a defense against future executive overreach and bring a necessary dose of commonsense to public land policy.” Congressman Emmer said, “I am pleased to see President Trump call for a review of the Antiquities Act in this morning’s executive order,” said Emmer. “Under the Obama Administration, we witnessed unilateral land grabs by the executive without Congressional consent. My home state of Minnesota was hit with similar last minute actions that closed off nearly a quarter million acres of land, which would stunt our state's economic growth. I look forward to the results of the review to indicate what next steps may be necessary.” “President Obama’s time in office led to more than 554,000,000 acres of land being declared as national monuments, practically the definition of a land grab. While the Antiquities Act serves a purpose, it has been abused by previous presidents and I’m glad to see President Trump sign an executive order to review the land taken in this drastic overreach of power,” remarked Congressman Mullin. Aumua Amata said, “I want to applaud President Trump for the executive order he signed today to review the Antiquities Act, which regulates national marine monument designations. The national marine monuments that have been instituted in the Western Pacific have closed off vast swaths of the ocean that our people have fished for over a millennium. I look forward to the actions that will be taken upon the completion of the review. It is essential that our fishing fleet in American Samoa has access to these traditional fishing grounds and this is the first step in restoring that access for our people.” "I fully support the President’s decision to review national monuments that had been recklessly expanded under the Obama Administration. Downsizing many of these monuments will help the Department of Interior to better manage our federal lands. It is time to reform the Antiquities Act and return the power to designate and expand national monuments back to Congress,” remarked Congressman LaMalfa. Congressman Lamborn said, “The review of the monuments designated under the Antiquities Act is both warranted and necessary. Today’s executive order signifies a shift in power from the federal government to the local communities who support these monuments and deserve to have a voice in the process. As the President and Secretary Zinke review the monuments in Colorado, I urge them to consider multi-user groups and recreation, community outreach, and the ability to fund and manage these important lands.” “Unilaterally locking up millions of acres of land for political gain was not the original intent of the Antiquities Act. Imposing such designations without any kind of local support from those who will bear the burden is an abuse of power. I strongly support President Trump’s order to review the gross misuse of such an outdated law. The American people – especially Utahns – deserve better than to have their livelihoods turned upside down with the stroke of a pen,” remarked Congressman Chaffetz. Congressman Labrador stated, “I am pleased by President Trump’s decision to review the Antiquities Act, which was used by his predecessors to designate national monuments without input from Congress or local communities. That’s why, in the last Congress, I introduced the National Monument Designation Transparency and Accountability Act, which would require Congressional approval and public input before restricting access to public lands in a proposed monument. When it comes to land in Idaho, Idahoans know best, and we appreciate a President who understands that. We need a legislative fix, and I look forward to working with President Trump on this issue.” Background: (Courtesy of the White House) Today’s Executive Order directs the Department of the Interior to review monuments designated using the Antiquities Act since January 1, 1996, that are in excess of 100,000 acres, or that were expanded without adequate public outreach and coordination with relevant stakeholders. The order does not strip any monument of a designation and does not loosen any environmental or conservation regulations on any land or marine areas. Further, the Executive Order: Directs the Secretary of the Interior to conduct the above-mentioned review. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to make recommendation to the President on whether a monument should be rescinded or resized. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to consult and coordinate with, as appropriate, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the heads of any other executive departments or agencies concerned with areas designated under the Act. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to consult and coordinate with the Governors of States affected by monument designations or other relevant officials of affected State, Tribal, and local Directs the Secretary of the Interior to provide an interim report to the President within 45 days of the date of the Directs the Secretary of the Interior to provide a final report to the President within 120 days of the date of the order. Text of the Executive Order can be found HERE. (Courtesy of the Congressional Western Caucus) The president’s ability to set aside land for monuments and national parks comes from the outdated Antiquities Act of 1906, which was originally intended to protect prehistoric Indian ruins and artifacts on federal lands in the West. More than one hundred years later, the original intent of this law, which included language to limit these designations to “the smallest area compatible with proper care and management of the objects,” has been significantly abused. Compared to early application of the Antiquities Act, where the average size of a national monument was merely 422 acres, in recent years it became commonplace for a monument to exceed a million acres in size. President Obama exceeded the intent of the Antiquities Act more than any other president in the history of this nation. With designation of the 1.35 million acre Bears Ears National Monument in Utah and the 300,000 acre Gold Butte National Monument in Nevada, President Obama designated or expanded 34 national monuments, more than any other president in history. These unilateral declarations locked-up 554,590,000 million acres of land and water. National monument designations under the Antiquities Act typically have significant consequences that negatively affect grazing rights, water rights, wildfire prevention and other land management activities. These declarations also result in some of the most restrictive land-use regulations possible and also greatly impact hunting, fishing, OHV and other recreational activities. Unilateral designations that circumvent Congress typically result in devastating consequences for rural America and our future economic prosperity. For every new acre claimed for the federal government, there is an acre of private land lost. Such actions exacerbate challenges for local communities to fund things like education and infrastructure as lands that are added to the federal rolls can no longer be taxed.
04.25.2017	Washington D.C. – Following efforts by Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) and Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04), legislation enabling Minnesota’s bid to host the World’s Fair in 2023, was passed unanimously in the House of Representatives today. This bill, The U.S. Wants to Compete for a World Expo Act, boasts the entire Minnesota delegation as cosponsors. World’s Fairs or Expos are meant to highlight all that a country has to offer, particularly when it comes to science, technology and innovation. While the United States excels in these areas, the last time we hosted a World’s Fair was in 1984. Despite being a founding member of the Bureau of International Expositions (BIE), the intergovernmental organization in charge of overseeing and regulating World Expos, the United States withdrew in 2001, and has not been considered as a potential host country since. The U.S. Wants to Compete for a World Expo Act (H.R. 534) remedies this problem by granting the Secretary of State the authority to rejoin the BIE, so cities like Minneapolis and others around the country have the chance to complete in hosting a World’s Expo. H.R. 534 authorizes the use of private funds to pay outstanding, as well as future, membership dues and maintains safeguards which prohibit taxpayer dollars from being used to fund a United States pavilion or exhibit at an international exposition or World’s Fair. “By rejoining the BIE, Minnesota, and the United States as a whole, will be one step closer to being able to highlight our innovative spirit and incredible success stories on a global stage,” said Emmer. “Minnesota is a great state with a lot to offer, and hosting a World’s Fair or Expo is an incredible opportunity to bring people, revenue and tax dollars to Minnesota, all while showing off our state’s natural beauty and incredible people. Additionally, I am proud this bill ensures taxpayer protections at a time when there is so much waste. I am excited that we are closer to realizing the dream of Minnesota hosting the World’s Fair, and I am glad to have the support of the entire Minnesota delegation.” “This bill is a bipartisan solution that levels the playing field and lets Minnesota and the United States compete. By ending our harmful, self-imposed isolation from the BIE, the United States will once again be in a position to host a World Expo and showcase the innovation, culture, and beauty of our great nation,” said McCollum. “Minnesota’s bid intends to focus on health innovation based on the theme Wellness and Well-Being for All. Minnesota’s health care industry is advanced, global, and innovative – and it deserves the spotlight. Hosting the World Expo in 2023 would be a remarkable event for the people of our state and today we are moving forward to that goal.”A 2016 economic analysis indicates that Minnesota hosting the 2023 World Expo would attract 12 million visitors, create almost 22,000 jobs, yield $185.3 million in State and Local tax revenue and generate $1.5 billion in total economic benefits. Additionally, the U.S. State Department voiced its support for H.R. 534 in a letter saying the bill is "consistent with the President's policy to promote domestic job growth and American innovation." To read the letter, click here. To view the full text of H.R. 534, click here. ###
04.24.2017	(Courtesy of the Congressional Western Caucus) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Paul A. Gosar D.D.S. (AZ-04), Vice Chairman for Indian Affairs and Oceans Rep. Don Young (AK-At Large), Chief Infrastructure and Forestry Officer Rep. Bruce Westerman (AR-04) and Western Caucus members Agriculture Committee Chairman Rep. Mike Conaway (TX-11), Rep. Tom Emmer (MN-06), Rep. Roger Marshall (KS-01), Rep. Aumua Amata (American Samoa-At Large), Rep. Glenn “GT” Thompson (PA-05), Rep. David Valadao (CA-21), Rep. Adrian Smith (NE-03), and Rep. Doug Collins (GA-09) issued the following statements after former Georgia Governor George “Sonny” Perdue was confirmed by the U.S. Senate by a bipartisan vote of 87-11 to serve as Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture: “Congratulations to our next Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue on his confirmation this evening. Steeped in agriculture, I am confident that Governor Perdue is the best choice to work with farmers and ranchers throughout the country to ensure affordable and safe domestic food production for American families. As an outspoken supporter of maintaining healthy forests, I am optimistic that Mr. Perdue will work with our next Forest Service Chief to implement an active forest management approach and prevent catastrophic wildfires,” said Chairman Gosar. “Members of the Western Caucus look forward to working closely with our next Secretary of Agriculture. I couldn’t be more pleased to see the Senate confirm someone raised on a farm and that worked in the industry as an adult to lead the Department.” Congressman Young stated, "I congratulate Governor Perdue on his confirmation and wish him well as he takes charge of an agency so closely connected to the fabric of our nation," said Congressman Don Young. "It's my hope, that as Secretary, he can begin addressing the systematic failures in management by the U.S. Forest Service and restore faith within our nation's many timber communities. For too long, the Forest Service has thumbed its nose at the multiple use mandate -- eliminating countless jobs and new opportunities for growth. This must change and I'm optimistic it can be done under Sonny's watch." “I congratulate Sonny Perdue on his confirmation as the 31st Secretary of Agriculture. Secretary Perdue’s extensive background in ag combined with his executive experience make him highly qualified for this position. I look forward to working with Secretary Perdue on the many issues of importance to Arkansas farmers and ranchers,” said Congressman Westerman. “Today is a great day for American agriculture. Secretary Perdue is a strong friend of America's farmers and ranchers, and I know he will work to ensure that agriculture is a top priority in the new Administration,” said Congressman Conaway. “President Trump has made it clear he supports a good farm bill that is delivered on time and includes a strong safety net for our nation’s farmers. That is absolutely critical as rural America struggles against the largest 4-year percentage decline in net farm income since the start of the Great Depression. It is good to have someone at the table fighting on behalf of rural America, and I look forward to working with Secretary Perdue as we develop a strong farm bill that improves the lives of America’s farmers and ranchers.” “Today’s confirmation of Sonny Perdue as our next Secretary of Agriculture is a huge win for farmers in Minnesota and around the country,” said Emmer. “After nearly a decade of struggles due to unnecessary and burdensome regulations, our agriculture community will now see the relief they have been asking for so they can focus on producing and providing for American families. I also applaud Secretary Perdue’s stance on lifting the Cuban embargo for the benefit this would bring to our ag industry, and look forward to working with him on this important issue,” said Congressman Emmer. “I want to congratulate Sonny Perdue on his long-overdue confirmation to Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. His leadership is especially relevant as producers face record world surpluses and depressed farm prices. Throughout this long process, one silver lining has been the broad, bipartisan support shown for Perdue, and support coming from all over the ag community. It shows that agriculture can still put partisanship aside for the good of our country, economy and our producers. I welcome the chance to work hand-in-hand with the Secretary as we help producers navigate existing programs and as we look toward the 2018 farm bill,” said Congressman Marshall. “In addition to farm and nutrition policy, I expect Perdue to be a sound champion for trade, something I have heard time and again from Kansans concerned about our ability to open new markets for products made in Kansas. Secretary Perdue's experience as an exporter and governor leading trade missions will be invaluable as this administration pursues trade policy. As I have said before, Perdue’s background growing up on a farm, his service in the military as a veterinarian, as well as his career in agribusiness and successful tenure as governor, make him a good fit to lead the US Department of Agriculture at this critical time for our nation’s farmers and ranchers.” Aumua Amata stated, “I want to congratulate the new Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue on his confirmation today. I know he will do a great job in leading the USDA.” “I congratulate Secretary Perdue on his confirmation and I look forward to working together,” remarked Congressman Thompson. “His appointment brings executive experience and real world knowledge to the post. In the coming years, and as we write the next Farm Bill, Secretary Perdue will be an important advocate for the agriculture industry and rural America.” “As the Representative for the nation’s leading ag producing district, I am excited the Senate has confirmed Mr. Sonny Perdue as our Secretary of Agriculture and I look forward to working with him and the Department of Agriculture,” stated Congressman Valadao. “Secretary Perdue has the experience and knowledge to lead the department and ensure our farmers and ranchers have the tools and resources they need to feed the country.” “Today’s confirmation of Secretary Perdue is great news for Nebraska agriculture,” remarked Congressman Smith. “At my Farm Bill listening sessions last week, producers made it clear they wanted to see Secretary Perdue confirmed as soon as possible so we can hit the ground running on agriculture policy. With his wide range of experience as a farmer, businessman, and governor, Secretary Perdue is well-positioned to lead the USDA in helping create more opportunity for U.S. producers.” “Sonny Perdue’s confirmation as Secretary of Agriculture represents an outstanding addition to the President’s Cabinet. Secretary Perdue’s leadership at the USDA will bring benefits to agricultural communities across our country, including northeast Georgia’s poultry and livestock industries,” said Congressman Collins. Background: As a result of confirmation by the Senate today, Governor Perdue will be the 31st Secretary of the United States Department of Agriculture. An archived webcast of Perdue’s nomination hearing that was held on Thursday, March 23, 2017 can be found HERE. More than 600 organizations representing farmers, ranchers, hunters, conservationists, businesses and other agriculture related fields throughout the country sent a letter supporting his nomination on February 2, 2017. In the letter, these groups made clear their strong support Governor Purdue stating, “There have been 30 Secretaries of Agriculture since the job was created in 1889, and though some were raised on a farm, only two actually lived and worked in agriculture as adults. If confirmed, Sonny Perdue will be number three…Given his background of growing up on a diversified row crop and dairy operation in Central Georgia, his service in the United States Air Force, and his background in founding three agribusiness firms supplying services to farmers, Gov. Perdue is eminently qualified to lead USDA...Gov. Perdue has proved to be a dedicated servant of the concerns of rural America with a long history of supporting rural infrastructure, agricultural water use projects, and proper forest management.”
04.24.2017	Washington, D.C - Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement after the confirmation of Sonny Perdue as the next Secretary of Agriculture: “Today’s confirmation of Sonny Perdue as our next Secretary of Agriculture is a huge win for farmers in Minnesota and around the country,” said Emmer. “After nearly a decade of struggles due to unnecessary and burdensome regulations, our agriculture community will now see the relief they have been asking for so they can focus on producing and providing for American families. I also applaud Secretary Perdue’s stance on lifting the Cuban embargo for the benefit this would bring to our ag industry, and look forward to working with him on this important issue.” ###
04.20.2017	Otsego, MN – Yesterday, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) participated in a classroom visit at Rocori High School. Emmer joined a current events class with Affinity Plus Credit Union to discuss and encourage financial literacy, and the importance of saving for the future. "Over our 26 years of parenthood, my wife and I have worked with our seven children to emphasize the importance of saving and financial literacy throughout their lifetime," said Congressman Tom Emmer. "Sometimes kids, my own included, forget that the decisions they make today will affect them down the road. Today, I appreciated the opportunity to work with industry experts, like the impressive individuals from Affinity Plus, to encourage Rocori High School students to look toward their future. Whether you are saving for your education, a house, retirement, or even just a vacation, planning and preparation is crucial to not only individual success, but also for the future of this nation. I applaud these efforts within our communities to educate our leaders of tomorrow about fiscal responsibility and am hopeful for the future of these bright students.” "Students are hearing so much about issues related to finances and financial services. It's vital they understand how these issues impact their future,” said Stephanie Musgrove, Affinity Plus certified financial educator and business development specialist. “That’s why Affinity Plus works closely with teachers in classrooms and educational settings across Minnesota. Our goal is to help students better understand the financial concepts that underlie these stories and statistics. That way they can make informed decisions about how to manage and make choices with their money." Emmer represents Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District and serves on the House Financial Services Committee. ###
04.11.2017	The Administration’s budget proposes to cut $17.3 billion in funding to the State Department and U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), a 31 percent reduction; These proposed cuts come at a time when the global community faces significant threats, including the possibility of another catastrophic famine in the Horn of Africa In a letter to the President, Klobuchar and Emmer noted the work of the State Department and USAID underpins the work of the Department of Defense and plays an important role in promoting U.S. economic and national security interests; They called on the Administration to consider the impact that cuts to the international affairs budget will have on the ability of the U.S. to respond to security threats and humanitarian crises WASHINGTON, DC – As the global community faces significant threats, U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar and Representative Tom Emmer have urged the Administration to reconsider budget cuts to the State Department and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). The Administration’s budget proposes to cut $17.3 billion in funding to the State Department and U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), a 31 percent reduction. These proposed cuts come at a time when the global community faces significant threats, including the possibility of another catastrophic famine in the Horn of Africa. In a letter to the President, Klobuchar and Emmer, who represent large East African populations in Minnesota, noted the work of the State Department and USAID underpins the work of the Department of Defense and plays an important role in promoting U.S. economic and national security interests. They called on the Administration to consider the impact that cuts to the international affairs budget will have on the ability of the U.S. to respond to security threats and humanitarian crises “United States international affairs operations have helped save lives, secure unstable regions, and build democracies. The drastic cuts you propose will undoubtedly limit American global leadership and shortchange the contributions we make across the globe to development and humanitarian assistance,” the lawmakers wrote. “As Members of Congress who represent one of the largest East African populations in the United States, including the largest Somali diaspora, we are aware of the catastrophic results that can come from inadequate responses to global disasters…We strongly urge you to reconsider cuts to the final international affairs budget you send to Congress.” The full text of the lawmakers’ letter is below. Dear President Trump, We are deeply concerned that your budget framework proposes to cut $17.3 billion in funding to the State Department and U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), a 31 percent reduction. These proposed cuts come at a time when the global community faces significant threats, including the possibility of another catastrophic famine in the Horn of Africa. United States international affairs operations have helped save lives, secure unstable regions, and build democracies. The drastic cuts you propose will undoubtedly limit American global leadership and shortchange the contributions we make across the globe to development and humanitarian assistance. As the world begins to mobilize in response to the drought in the Horn of Africa, funding cuts could cost lives and prevent our diplomatic agencies from continuing the work they do to promote American security and economic interests. As Members of Congress who represent one of the largest East African populations in the United States, including the largest Somali diaspora, we are aware of the catastrophic results that can come from inadequate responses to global disasters. In 2011, Somalia suffered a famine that took more than 260,000 lives. Many of our constituents lost loved ones and are concerned that history will repeat itself. We share their concern and strongly urge you to consider the impact that cuts to the international affairs budget will have on the ability of the United States to help countries like Somalia respond to humanitarian crises and security threats. Two consecutive seasons of poor rainfall have caused large-scale crop failures and forced Somalia to declare the current drought a national disaster. More than half of Somalia’s population, 6.2 million people, are in need of humanitarian assistance. In the last two months alone, nearly 160,000 people have been displaced. The United Nations has recently called it the largest humanitarian crisis since the world body was founded in 1945. Bad actors often use instability caused by humanitarian disasters and to be sure, al-Shabaab will likely seek this as an opportunity to undermine the progress that Somalia has made over the last several years. We should not let that happen. The actions that USAID has taken, including USAID’s recent commitment of an additional $131 million to address the urgent needs of drought-affected people in Ethiopia and Somalia, represents a positive first step. Given the magnitude of the disaster we must do more and work with our international partners to provide an adequate emergency response. Lasting peace and stability does not come from military solutions alone. The work of the State Department and USAID underpins the work of the Department of Defense by building alliances, trust, and stability. Moreover, many of these programs at the federal level complement the work that private citizens, businesses, and health providers from Minnesota have undertaken to improve the quality of life for individuals across all of Africa. While we must be vigilant in ensuring our assistance is delivered efficiently and effectively, dramatic cuts undermine our strategic and economic goals and are not in the best interest of the American people. We strongly urge you to reconsider cuts to the final international affairs budget you send to Congress. As a bipartisan group of members from the House and Senate, we stand ready to work with you to maintain the international affairs budget in FY 2018 appropriations legislation. Sincerely, ###
04.10.2017	Washington, D.C. – Last week Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) reintroduced the Retirement Inflation Protection Act (RIPA) of 2017. RIPA will protect all Americans over the age of 59 ½ years old from paying inflation-induced capital gains taxes on assets like a house, a business, or stocks. This will help to ensure that seniors are only paying capital gains on real increases in value of an asset, thus, allowing them to keep more of their own money for retirement. “During our discussions on tax reform, it is crucial we look at all taxes, but especially regressive taxes like inflation that hit low-income Americans and seniors the hardest,” said Emmer. “I am proud to introduce the Retirement Inflation Protection Act to bring relief to our nation’s seniors. This legislation will provide protection to those over the age of 59 ½ from the harmful effects of inflation and create a safeguard for their hard-earned assets, all while enabling them to be more self-sufficient. I look forward to continuing our efforts to reform our nation’s tax code, especially when it benefits those who need our help the most.” RIPA has been endorsed by the Association of Mature American Citizens (AMAC). Dan Weber, President and Founder of AMAC, issued the following statement following the bill’s introduction: “The Retirement Inflation Protection Act is a real-time solution to a real-life problem. Seniors need the reassurance that the assets they’ve accumulated over decades of hard work won’t be raided by taxes as begin their retirement. As the cost of retiring continues to increase, RIPA offers seniors peace of mind that they can be financially secure in their golden years.” The Retirement Inflation Protection Act is H.R. 2017. Click here to read the full text. ###
04.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) sent the following release after the Senate confirmed Judge Neil Gorsuch to the United States Supreme Court: “Today is a great day for the United States. I applaud the confirmation of Judge Neil Gorusch as the next justice to the highest court of the land. Throughout his career, Gorsuch has proven himself as an incredible intellect who will be steadfast in his commitment to this great nation and the rule of law. For this reason, it is no surprise that the American Bar Association awarded Gorsuch its highest rating. I am confident he will uphold and defend the Constitution as our Founding Fathers intended and is the best person to follow in the footsteps to fill the vacancy left by the late Antonin Scalia.” ###​
04.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – This week, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) participated in the first joint committee hearing between the Monetary Policy & Trade Subcommittee and the newly formed Terrorism and Illicit Financing Subcommittee on increasing the effectiveness of non-nuclear sanctions against Iran. Emmer is a member of both subcommittees. “Tuesday’s joint subcommittee hearing was instrumental in highlighting the current status of the United States’ sanctions on Iran, and what our next steps should be to increase the safety of this nation,” said Emmer. “Even after the United States’ attempts to eliminate access to financing, tools, weapons and support, Iran has become even more emboldened in their quest to commit and encourage acts of terror around the globe. It is clear that more needs to be done and I thank Chairman Barr and Chairman Pearce for holding this hearing to call attention to the continued threat Iran poses. This was a great starting point to hear from experts as we continue our work on solutions to make this world a safer place. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both subcommittees to curb the financing of terror and illicit activities around the globe.” The Terror and Illicit Finance Subcommittee is the newest subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee (FSC). During the 114th Congress, the FSC established a task force to investigate and recommend ways to mitigate the spread of monetary support to terrorist organizations. As a member of this newly formed subcommittee, Congressman Emmer will explore opportunities to curb all forms of financial activities to carry out acts of terror and other illicit activities including, but not limited to, drug trafficking, human trafficking, money laundering and more. Reps. Barr & Pearce’s release on the joint subcommittee hearing can be found here.Click here for more information about the Terrorism and Illicit Finance Subcommittee. ###
04.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – Continuing his record of working across the aisle towards commonsense solutions, U.S. Rep. Smucker (PA-16) teamed up with Reps. Collin Peterson (MN-07) and Tom Emmer (MN-06) to introduce legislation to relieve veterans of financial burdens caused by delays at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Pennsylvania’s 16th Congressional District is home to more than 10,000 veterans. The bipartisan VA Billing Accountability Act sets forth specific and immediate billing requirements so our nation’s veterans are not receiving unbilled co-payments for VA care from years past. “Our nation’s service men and women should not have to pay for delays or errors made by the VA,” said Rep. Smucker. “They and their families have sacrificed so much in defense of our homeland. We should be doing all we can to make their transition to civilian life as easy as possible, and this bill will help bring more stability and financial security to their post-military lives. I am glad to join Reps. Peterson and Emmer in this bipartisan effort to advance commonsense legislation on behalf of veterans.” “I have heard from many veterans that have been billed by the VA and it's frustrating to hear their situation. This bill is intended to hold the VA accountable,” said Rep. Peterson. “With this bill, I hope we can restore the faith to our veterans that they will receive the care they were promised without getting stuck with unexpected bills.” “The men and women who dedicate their lives to defend the safety and freedoms of this nation deserve nothing but the best once they return home,” said Rep. Emmer. “It is our duty to make their lives easier, not more difficult and the VA Billing Accountability Act will help do just that. Through clearly defining timing and other VA billing requirements, we can bring more certainty and assurance to our nation’s veterans after they’ve returned to their civilian lives. I am proud to work with Congressmen Smucker and Peterson on this legislation and look forward to working with our colleagues towards its passage.” The VA Billing Accountability Act authorizes the VA to waive the requirement that a veteran make co-payments for medication, hospital care, nursing home care, and medical services if: an error committed by the VA or a VA employee was the cause of delaying copayments notification to the veteran; and the veteran received such notification more than 120 days (18 months in the case of a non-VA facility) after the date on which the veteran received care or services Additionally, this legislation grants authorizing power to the VA Secretary to get rid of the requirement that veterans make a co-payment if the VA does not abide by the billing timing mandates. ###
03.31.2017	Otsego, MN – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced today that his office is now accepting submissions for the second annual Young Women Leadership Program. This excellent program allows high school girls from Minnesota’s Sixth District to learn firsthand about different career options from professional women who have built successful careers and hold or have held leadership roles in government, business, media, and other fields. Participants of this program will be able to take part in open roundtable discussions with their peers and women professionals, all while hearing stories, receiving guidance, and gaining valuable insights. “I am happy to make this exciting announcement during Women’s History Month because this program helps recognize the many incredible contributions and accomplishments made by women all over our great state,” said Emmer. “By highlighting the achievements of Minnesotan women and having them give insight to current high school students, we hope that young girls will realize, that through their hard work and determination, that they can realize their dreams. After the great success of last year’s program, I am very much looking forward to meeting and inspiring another group of fantastic young women.” Further details on this program, including how to apply and last year’s panelists can be found on Congressman Emmer’s website. Applications will be accepted through May 15th. ###
03.29.2017	Otsego, MN – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced today that his office will once again be accepting submissions for the annual Congressional Art Competition. “The Congressional Art Competition is a tradition that my office participates in every year, and it is one I very much enjoy as it gives us a chance to showcase the talent that hails from Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District,” said Emmer. “In addition to having their artwork displayed in the halls of the Capitol for a year, the first place winner will have a chance to travel to Washington D.C. to meet with me and see their artwork displayed in person. I am looking forward to receiving all of the artwork and due to all of last year’s great submissions, I am positive the competition will be tight this year.” All artwork must be submitted to Emmer’s Otsego office by May 1, 2017. The winning artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol. Interested students should visit emmer.house.gov/services/art-competition or call my district office at 763-241-6848 for more information. ###
03.28.2017	(Courtesy of the Congressional Western Caucus) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Paul A. Gosar D.D.S. (AZ-04), Executive Vice Chairman Rep. Scott Tipton (CO-03), Chief Defense and Interior Officer Rep. Chris Stewart (UT-02), Chairman Emeritus Rep. Steve Pearce (NM-02), Chairman Emeritus Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) and Western Caucus members Speaker Paul Ryan (WI-01), Rep. Raul Labrador (ID-01), Rep. Randy Weber (TX-14), Rep. Andy Biggs (AZ-05), Rep. Tom Emmer (MN-06), Rep. Doug Lamborn (CO-05), Rep. Doug LaMalfa (CA-01), Rep. Jody Hice (GA-10), Rep. Kevin McCarthy (CA-23), Rep. Glenn “GT” Thompson (PA-05) released the following statements as a result of President Donald Trump signing the American Energy Independence Executive Order: “As President Trump stated today and we all know, ‘States and local communities know what is best for them.’ The Obama Administration did everything in its power to trample on that authority and dictate wildly out-of-touch mandates from Washington, D.C.,” said Chairman Gosar. “With the signing of today’s American Energy Independence Executive Order, the previous regulatory regime that stamped out innovation, killed jobs, and consistently moved the goalposts to untenable distances for the energy sector, is one step closer to being erased. Today’s action from President Trump proves that environmental protections and economic development are not mutually exclusive goals. Western Caucus looks forward to continuing to work with President Trump, Administrator Pruitt, Secretary Zinke and Secretary Perry to deliver commonsense energy solutions that are good for the American people.” Congressman Tipton remarked, “The Obama Administration did everything in its power to pick winners and losers in American energy production. That era is now over, and I am glad that the administration is taking action to grow jobs and preserve hardworking Americans’ access to affordable and reliable energy. I look forward to advancing more policies that support an all-of-the-above approach to U.S. energy.” “President Obama’s Coal Power Plan was just another example of expensive, excessive big-government regulation, resulting in fewer jobs and increased energy bills. By signing this Executive Order, President Trump is following through on his promise to reduce burdensome regulations and promoting an all-of-the-above energy platform,” said Congressman Stewart. “Coal along with natural gas, wind, solar, nuclear, hydro, and geothermal will continue to serve as an important part of our national energy infrastructure.” “The Obama Administration continuously attacked our nation’s production of reliable energy resources, which crippled economic opportunity in New Mexico and across the nation. Today’s Executive Order by President Trump reverses these job-killing regulations and reaffirms our commitment to expanding domestic energy production. This will reduce government overreach and return the power back to the states where it belongs. New Mexicans deserve affordable energy and access to good-paying, energy jobs that are created through this industry,” said Congressman Pearce. “I applaud our President for revitalizing our nation’s energy plan by eliminating the unnecessary war on coal, the BLM’s hydraulic fracturing and venting and flaring rules, and the EPA’s methane rule. Now, we can begin moving forward towards an ‘all of the above’ energy plan that creates jobs and better sustains low energy prices for all Americans. New Mexico will once again have the opportunity to become a leader in our nation’s energy development.” Congressman Bishop said, “This order begins the reversal of a number of harmful and ideologically-driven policies. We will work with the President to add statutory permanence to prevent future administrations from resurrecting this harmful regulatory agenda.” “Today’s executive order is based on a fundamental truth: Energy drives our economy. President Obama disregarded this, and the result was a barrage of regulations that crippled America’s energy industry. That is all in the past now,” said Speaker Ryan. “President Trump’s executive order will help America’s energy workers and reverse much of the damage done. In particular, I hope that this action will result in full repeal of the Clean Power Plan, which ravaged coal country and was temporarily blocked by the Supreme Court last year. We are committed to repealing regulations that hurt jobs and drive up the cost of energy. To build on this, the House will act on legislation this week that ensures any new EPA regulations are rooted in science.” Congressman Labrador remarked, “I appreciate President Trump’s leadership in rolling back some of the previous administration’s most disastrous energy policies. In Idaho, as in so many other states, the Obama Administration’s environmental extremism has killed jobs and hurt the competitiveness of our economy. We still have a lot of work to do to make America energy independent, and as a member of the Natural Resources Committee, I look forward to working with President Trump and his team.” “President Trump’s American Energy Independence Executive Order will increase the efficiency of American businesses in the Energy Sector,” said Congressman Weber. “The focus of the order will right the wrongs of the CPP – a plan currently challenged by 150 entities, and which never had bipartisan support in the House. The President is using his authority to cut the CPP’s burdensome regulations to allow the EPA to focus on its original mission.” Congressman Biggs said, “The Obama Administration’s Clean Power Plan, Social Cost of Carbon, CEQ guidance, and methane rule were prime examples of federal overreach and executive fiat threatening countless jobs around the country. For a number of years, Arizona fought against these harmful regulations enacted by unelected bureaucrats, and I am pleased to see oversight and accountability restored through President Trump’s executive order. I look forward to working with our newly confirmed EPA Secretary Scott Pruitt and my colleagues in Congress to continue to roll back these detrimental, job-killing regulations as we seek to revitalize the American economy.” “Today’s executive order is another positive step towards putting the United States back on the path to becoming energy independent with an all-of-the-above strategy that benefits entrepreneurs, consumers and families across the country. I applaud President Trump’s commitment to rolling back the onerous Obama Administration regulations, like the Clean Power Plan, that were imposed with huge economic costs identified but without clearly defined environmental benefits, and look forward to continuing these efforts in Congress.” remarked Congressman Emmer. “I am pleased that the President is fulfilling his promise to help America become energy independent. With this Executive Order, President Trump has rolled back the Obama Administration’s most harmful environmental regulations—including the Clean Power Plan, which has cost many American jobs and has driven up energy costs for American families. The time is long overdue to relieve the burdens of the Obama Administration’s restrictive energy policies and return power to the states,” said Congressman Lamborn. “I look forward to a new energy strategy that unleashes our vast natural resources and creates new jobs to boost the American economy.” “I am happy to see the President move to undo some of the burdensome, job-killing regulations implemented by the previous Administration. Let’s remember that these unreasonable regulations did not come into force because of new laws, but simply because of more executive action. That is why I can applaud the removal of these burdens by executive action now. Under President Obama, the Environmental Protection Agency had gotten out of control – unfairly targeting certain sectors and threatening entire industries,” said Congressman LaMalfa. “This Executive Order pulls back from the EPA’s overly burdensome Clean Power Plan, lifts a moratorium on new coal leases on federal lands, while also rolling back several other Obama-era EPA regulations that overstep the agency’s authority and place an undue burden on our economy and job growth. This will unleash our country’s energy industry and help enable America to become truly energy independent.” “The damaging energy mandates from the last eight years have hindered America’s energy independence for far too long,” said Congressman Hice. “President Trump’s new executive order is the first step toward eradicating regulatory barriers while delivering an all-of-the-above energy strategy that stimulates innovation, development, and security. It is vital to our national and fiscal security that we restore economic freedom by utilizing cutting edge technology to unleash affordable, reliable, and clean supplies of energy. I applaud President Trump for his dedication to prioritizing energy independence and a bustling economy for the benefit of all Americans.” “President Trump is taking action to keep the lights on in our homes, our factories, and throughout our economy's supply chain. America will have a stronger future by developing, not neglecting, the abundant energy resources our land offers. The rationale behind this action is what Republicans have been arguing for years: environmental protections and economic growth are not mutually exclusive,” said Congressman McCarthy. “Innovation and technological changes have proven our ability to advance energy development in a cleaner and safer way. We are a resilient people who power a resilient economy. Unleashing our energy potential will strongly support jobs and healthier lives for everyone." “Today’s executive action will eliminate needless federal overreach and allows workers and energy producer to compete and succeed on a level playing field,” Congressman Thompson said. “The Clean Power Plan had serious flaws and needs to be reevaluated. Although states like Pennsylvania have had significant carbon reductions, the proposed plan would have negatively affected thousands of jobs and nearly 30 percent of our electrical generation throughout the Commonwealth, without significant environmental benefits.” Background: Today, President Donald J. Trump signed the Energy Independence Policy Executive Order. The text of the Executive Order can be found HERE.(Courtesy of the White House) This Executive Order calls for an immediate re-evaluation of the so-called Clean Power Plan. Perhaps no single regulation threatens our miners more than this crushing attack on American industry. Second, it directs the Secretary of the Interior to lift the federal coal leasing moratorium. Third, it lifts the job-killing restrictions on the production of oil, natural gas, clean coal and shale energy. Fourth, it withdraws several Social Cost of Carbon directives. Finally, it returns power to the states – where it belongs. States and local communities know what is best for them, and they are the ones we should empower to decide. More specifically, President Donald J. Trump’s Energy Independence Policy Executive Order reverses the regulations on American jobs and energy production. President Trump’s Executive Order directs the Environmental Protection Agency to suspend, revise, or rescind four actions related to the Clean Power Plan (CPP) that would stifle the American energy industry. President Trump’s Executive Order directs the Attorney General to seek appropriate relief from the courts over pending litigation related to the CPP. President Trump’s Executive Order rescinds seven Executive actions centered on the previous administration’s climate change agenda that have acted as a road block to energy independence. President Trump’ Executive Order directs agencies to use the best available science and economics in regulatory analysis. It disbands the Interagency Working Group (IWG) on the Social Cost of Greenhouse Gases. It withdraws six technical documents produced by the IWG, the work of which will no longer represent Government policy, because it did not follow sound guidelines governing cost-benefit analysis. President Trump’s Executive Order directs all agencies to conduct a review of existing actions that harm domestic energy production and suspend, revise, or rescind actions that are not mandated by law. Within 180 days, agencies must finalize their plans. More information on the Obama Administration’s Clean Power Plan The Clean Power Plan has serious legal and policy flaws. For years, energy producing states have argued that this plan is an overreach by EPA, interfering with the states’ sovereign rights. As directed by this Executive Order, EPA will review the CPP to ensure that the agency is abiding by the Clean Air Act and respecting the rule of law. A bipartisan majority in the 114th Congress rejected the CPP, in the form of S.J. Res. 23 and S.J. Res 24, legislation which vetoed by President Obama. In February 2016, the Supreme Court took the unprecedented step to stay the implementation of the CPP. The stay is for good reason as the CPP was being challenged by over 150 entities including 28 states, 24 trade associations, 37 rural electric co-ops, and 3 labor unions. The previous Administration’s Clean Power Plan could cost up to $39 billion a year and increase electricity prices in 41 States by at least ten percent, according to NERA Economic Consulting. The Clean Power Plan would cause coal production to fall by 242 million tons, according to the National Mining Association. 27 states, 24 trade associations, 37 rural electric co-ops, and 3 labor unions are challenging the Clean Power Plan in Federal court.
03.24.2017	(Courtesy of the Congressional Western Caucus) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Paul A. Gosar D.D.S. (AZ-04), Chief Infrastructure and Forestry Officer Rep. Bruce Westerman (AR-04), Executive Vice Chairman Rep. Scott Tipton (CO-03), Chairman Emeritus Rep. Steve Pearce (NM-02), and Western Caucus members Rep. Doug Collins (GA-09), Rep. Ralph Abraham (LA-05), Rep. Kristi Noem (SD-At Large), Rep. Bill Flores (TX-17), Rep. Glenn “GT” Thompson (PA-05), Rep. Kevin Cramer (ND-At Large), and Rep. Tom Emmer (MN-06) issued the following statements in response to the Trump Administration granting a permit for construction of the Keystone XL pipeline: “This shovel-ready project languished for nearly a decade under the misguided, political policies of President Obama. Today is a new day and I am pleased to see President Trump follow through on another promise,” said Chairman Gosar. “Let’s get this pipeline built, create good-paying jobs and ensure energy security for the American people.” Congressman Westerman said, "I congratulate President Trump on approving construction of the Keystone XL pipeline. This is a long-overdue project that is about creating opportunity for private sector jobs and North American energy independence. Today, he sided with hardworking Americans – including Arkansans who have constructed the pipe." Congressman Tipton said, “I welcome the news that the administration has approved the construction permit for the Keystone XL pipeline. It is long past time that this pipeline be completed. Today marks an important win in our fight for American jobs, affordable energy, and U.S. energy security.” “The Keystone XL Pipeline project will create good-paying jobs, lower gas prices, and increase North American energy security. This common sense project will reduce our reliance on oil from unstable countries, which will increase our national security,” said Congressman Pearce. “I’m pleased to see that the Administration move forward with construction and reaffirm their commitment to economic development in America.” “President Trump’s approval for the Keystone XL pipeline opens up new possibilities in our move toward energy independence and a stronger domestic economy, and I welcome his commitment to smart energy options for all Americans,” said Congressman Collins. “The Keystone XL pipeline means more jobs for hardworking people in the oil patch who are ready to go back to work after a painful period of decline in the industry. This is a project that should have been approved years ago, and I applaud President Trump’s decision to move forward with its construction,” said Congressman Abraham. “Access to energy is central to improving our national security and building a more robust economy that offers better jobs and higher wages. Not only does the Keystone XL Pipeline offer these large-scale benefits for our country, its construction will translate into added revenue for cash-strapped South Dakota counties, relief on our roads and rails, and job opportunities for folks across our state,” said Congresswoman Noem. “I’m glad to see President Trump move forward on this critical piece of American infrastructure.” Congressman Flores said, “Building the Keystone XL pipeline will foster economic growth, create thousands of jobs for Americans and enhance energy security for America. Approving the long overdue Keystone XL pipeline allows the United States access to secure, stable oil supplies from a strong North American ally. It will also help reduce our reliance on unstable Middle Eastern energy sources. I applaud President Trump’s approval of Keystone XL and his commitment to advancing a 21st century energy strategy.” Congressman Thompson remarked, “I applaud President Trump for taking action today that will benefit American manufacturers, workers and families. Approval of the Keystone Pipeline and other energy infrastructure projects was held up by political pressures upon the previous administration. This type of artificial red tape must be removed to unleash the true economic potential we have in America." “The Keystone XL Pipeline is a very important piece of national security infrastructure as well as economic and energy infrastructure. It displaces oil from hostile countries with oil from our friendliest, longest neighbor in Canada, and restores parts of that relationship that have been frayed over the past several years,” said Congressman Cramer. “This is another America First infrastructure project, and is further evidence that Donald Trump is a man of action, not just rhetoric.” “I am extremely pleased to hear the Keystone XL pipeline permits have been approved by the new administration. This long overdue infrastructure project will create thousands of jobs, put America on the path to energy independence and bring much needed relief to families across the country through the reduction of energy costs,” said Congressman Emmer. Background: On January 24, 2017, President Trump signed an executive order directing the Secretary of State, Secretary of the Army, and Secretary of the Interior to take the necessary actions to advance the Keystone XL pipeline and to do so in a timely manner. The text of the executive order can be found HERE. On January 26, 2017, the TransCanada Keystone Pipeline resubmitted its application for a Presidential permit to construct, connect, operate and maintain pipeline facilities at the U.S.-Canadian border in Phillips County, Montana. On March 24, 2017 the U.S. Department of State approved the application based on their review that occurred as a result of President Trump’s executive order. More information regarding that approval can be found HERE. The Keystone XL Pipeline will connect western Canada to a distribution center in Oklahoma and to refineries in Illinois and Texas. Conservative estimates from the Obama State Department projected that Keystone XL will support more than 42,000 jobs. Unfortunately, President Obama chose to put the priorities of the extremist special-interest groups ahead of the American people when he blocked the Keystone XL pipeline in 2015 after a seven-year federal review process by his administration. The House of Representatives has voted more than 10 times in recent years to approve the Keystone Pipeline. The U.S. State Department found in January of 2014 for the second time that the pipeline would have no significant impact on climate change. Keystone XL has bipartisan support - even labor unions support it.
03.10.2017	Washington, D.C. – This week, Congressman Emmer (MN-06) reintroduced the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) Reform Act, H.R. 1459. This legislation would increase oversight, transparency and accountability by subjecting the FSOC to the Congressional appropriations process. Additionally, this legislative change will improve coordination and communication between regulators, Congress, financial institutions and consumers. “Regulators in Washington need to be accountable to the American people,” said Emmer. “A recent review conducted by the Financial Services Committee highlighted the ‘arbitrary and inconsistent’ nature of the FSOC’s actions and reiterated the need for improved oversight and review of our federal regulators. The financial services industry plays a critical role in creating the capital and opportunities that drives Minnesota’s, and the nation’s, economy forward. I look forward to building on the progress this legislation made in the 114th Congress and ensuring federal overreach does not limit the ability of Minnesotan businesses to grow and thrive.” The FSOC was created in 2010 under the Dodd-Frank Act. The FSOC has the power to designate financial institutions as “systemically important” which results in greater regulatory burdens. Unfortunately, the designation process has lacked transparency thus far. The legislation would give Congress the power to approve the budget for the FSOC and the Office of Financial Research (OFR), create quarterly reporting requirements for the OFR, and require the OFR to provide at least a 90 day public notice and comment period before issuing any report, rule, or regulation. This increased oversight and transparency would ensure safe and competitive, financial markets, to help Americans purchase homes, cars and have access to higher education.Congressman Tom Emmer represents Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District and is a member of the Financial Services Committee.The Financial Stability Oversight Council Reform Act is H.R. 1459. Click here to read the full text.This legislation was Emmer’s first piece of legislation to pass out of the House of Representatives during the 114th Congress. ###
02.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement regarding President Trump’s first joint address to Congress: “Tonight, we heard from a President who is committed to fulfilling his campaign promises to the American people. I share President Trump’s dedication to rolling back the excessive and burdensome regulations that are hurting small businesses and stifling the entrepreneurial spirit for which this nation is known. I agree with President Trump’s commitment to the rule of law – to ensure the safety and potential for success for all Americans. I join President Trump in his desire to unwind the failure that is Obamacare and work to restore a working health care system that expands access and lowers costs for families across Minnesota and the country. And most importantly, I fully support President Trump’s optimism and request for all Americans, and all Members of Congress, to work together to benefit the future of this great nation for now and for years to come.”
02.23.2017	Otsego, MN – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement regarding tonight’s town hall in Sartell, MN: “Since I first took office, I have taken great pride in holding town halls throughout Minnesota’s Sixth District. After so many disruptive town halls across the country over the past month, it is refreshing that tonight’s event was productive with Minnesotans willing to have a healthy dialogue about the future of this country. I depend on the feedback from the people of Minnesota to ensure I am doing this job to the best of my ability and I am thankful that so many people took the time out of their evening to come share their opinions with me. I am especially thankful to those who filled out the comment cards that were handed out before the town hall. I look forward to building on tonight’s dialogue and partnering with the residents of Minnesota's Sixth District in the coming months.” Emmer held 24 town halls in his first term, including at least two in-person town halls in each of the seven counties he represents. ###
02.22.2017	Otsego, MN – In advance of Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06)’s February 22nd town hall, David FitzSimmons, Emmer’s Chief of Staff, released the following statement: “As an office, we are proud of the fact that we held 24 town halls in the first 24 months (including two in-person town halls in each of the seven counties he represents) Congressman Emmer was in office. For the Congressman, these events are helpful to hear from the people he represents when looking at issues facing this nation. Unfortunately, reports about town halls across this country over the past few weeks have been troubling. What should be an open and respectful forum to discuss ideas and opinions have often turned into shouting, chanting, and other disruptive behavior, from which no one benefits. Tomorrow night, we are looking forward to a productive and healthy conversation for the Congressman to hear the thoughts, concerns and suggestions from his constituents. However, should this event turn into a disruptive display, or if there are any violent actions or threats, we will end the meeting and be forced to reassess our policy on town halls going forward. The safety of staff, law enforcement, and constituents must remain paramount. Behavior that goes beyond the bounds of civil discourse is threatening to drive into extinction the civic institution known as a town hall meeting." For more information on this and all previous town halls, visit emmer.house.gov/townhalls ###
02.03.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement applauding President Trump’s actions regarding Dodd-Frank and the Department of Labor’s Fiduciary Rule: “Since its inception, Dodd-Frank has imposed numerous regulations that have hindered economic growth, made it harder for consumers to access credit, and altered the constitutional balance of power. American consumers and financial institutions alike need relief from burdensome federal regulations and I am pleased to see the President take steps to evaluate how we can do just that. Similarly, the President’s actions to delay and review the Fiduciary Rule demonstrates his commitment to stand up for the working families across the country. I look forward to working with my colleagues on the House Financial Services Committee to strengthen consumer and retiree protections without increasing costs, restricting growth, and expanding the reach of the federal government.” ###
02.02.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement in regards to President Trump’s nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch as the next justice to the United States Supreme Court: “Judge Gorsuch will be a fitting replacement to fill the late Justice Scalia’s seat and I am pleased to see him chosen as our next Supreme Court nominee. His impressive resume reflects his devotion to the Constitution and his opinions demonstrate that he has a great legal mind and exercises the restraint of a proper judiciary. Both sides of the aisle should be able to agree that he has the experience, intellectual prowess and textualist mindset that our highest court demands. I am confident Judge Gorsuch will uphold and defend our Constitution and I look forward to a swift confirmation by the United States Senate so he can get to work on the many important cases pending before the court.” ###
01.30.2017	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement in regards to President Trump's recent Executive Order: “The United States and the State of Minnesota have a strong history of welcoming immigrants and refugees from every corner of the globe. This is a history that I proudly embrace and support. However, there is no greater priority of mine in Congress, or of the federal government, than to ensure the security and safety of the American people. Attacks in Paris and San Bernardino have demonstrated the danger that refugee and visa programs can pose if the vetting process is not thorough and secure. This Executive Order takes temporary and important steps to reevaluate and enhance our refugee and visa screening process. While improvements may be needed, I am confident we will work in Congress to ensure that every American remains safe, and that we can guarantee the safety of those that come to the United State seeking shelter and refuge.” ###
01.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced today his subcommittee assignments for the House Financial Services Committee during the 115th Congress. Emmer has been selected to serve on the Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Securities and Investment, the Subcommittee on Monetary Policy and Trade, and the Subcommittee on Terrorism and Illicit Finance. Regarding his assignments, Emmer issued the following statement: “The financial services industry in Minnesota is an impressive part of our business community and key sector throughout our state. I am absolutely thrilled to continue serving on the Financial Services Committee and honored to be selected for these three subcommittees. I look forward to working with the rest of my colleagues to create a stronger, free market system, reduce the excessive regulatory burdens on our community banks and credit unions, and strengthen our economy so that all citizens of this great nation may have the opportunity to pursue the American Dream.” Congressman Emmer was first appointed to the Financial Services Committee in May 2015. This will be Emmer’s second term serving on the Financial Services Committee. ###
01.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement regarding President Trump’s executive action on immigration and refugees: “The United States is a nation founded by immigrants and I am beyond proud to call this country home. But we are also a nation of laws. Unfortunately, under the Obama Administration we were forced to stand by and watch as individuals exploited our refugee and immigration systems without recourse. Our laws should apply equally to everyone and should not be waived when it is convenient or fits an agenda. I am pleased to see President Trump taking steps to enforce the rule of law and create a level playing field for every American citizen and those aspiring to be one. Our country must continue to be that 'shining city on a hill' and welcome those who are in search of a better life, but it will cease to be so if we do not enforce the laws on the books and ensure the safety of all Americans. By working to strengthen our refugee admittance program, secure our borders and remove any criminals here illegally, we can fulfill our promise of safety to our citizens and the pursuit of the American dream for everyone.” ###
01.24.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement regarding President Trump’s executive action to advance the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines: “I am extremely pleased to see President Trump take actions today to advance the energy interests of this nation. During his first days in office, President Trump has highlighted his commitment to energy independence, creating jobs, and reducing the energy costs for Minnesota families. The creation of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines will be a great benefit to the American economy. There is new hope we can get clearance for pipeline improvements from the North Dakota oilfields to the Port of Duluth bringing jobs and revenue to the state of Minnesota. I look forward to working with my colleagues and President Trump to continue to invest in our infrastructure, strengthen our nation and work towards energy independence.” ###
01.23.2017	Otsego, Minnesota – Today, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced the date and location of his first town hall of the year. His town hall will be held Wednesday, February 22, in Stearns County. At the beginning of his first term in Congress, Congressman Emmer promised to remain transparent, accountable and accessible and he did just that by holding 24 town halls in 24 months. The town halls were so successful that Congressman Emmer plans to do more of the same in the 115th Congress. “Town halls are a great way for me to hear directly from the people of Minnesota’s Sixth District,” said Emmer. “We will be accomplishing a lot in the new Congress, so I look forward to speaking with my fantastic constituents, listening to their concerns, and learning all about what they hope to see achieved over the next two years. If there is an issue or concern you hope to express – or want to know where I stand on an issue – please join me in Stearns County on February 22nd!” Date: Wednesday, February 22, 2017Time: 7:00 P.M.Location: Sartell City Hall 125 Pine Cone Rd N. Sartell, MN 56377 ###
01.20.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement regarding the inauguration of the 45th President of the United States of America, Donald J. Trump: “Today is a huge day! It was incredible to look out at the hundreds of thousands of Americans who traveled from all across the country to witness the peaceful transfer of power to the Trump Administration. The world watched President Trump expound upon his hopes for the future of this nation. We listened to him speak once again to the forgotten man and woman who feel as though they have been left behind. And we heard that President Trump is committed now, more than ever, to truly put America first. I agree with President Trump that, ‘when America is united, America is totally unstoppable’ and after hearing his message today, I am even more optimistic about our path forward. I am looking forward to working with President Trump and the 115th Congress to make our hopes and dreams – and those of millions of Americans - a reality.” ###
01.18.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) reintroduced the Corporate Rate Equality and Trade Empowerment (CREATE) Jobs Act which will reduce the United States corporate income tax rates to make our nation internationally competitive again. Currently, the United States has the highest corporate income tax rate in the industrialized world at nearly 40 percent. Our neighbors to the north and our largest trading partner, Canada, recently reduced their rate to 15 percent while the United States’ second, third, fourth, and fifth largest trading partners, China, Mexico, Japan, and Germany, have corporate rates of 25, 30, 24, and 15 percent, respectively. The CREATE Jobs Act would lower corporate income tax rate in the United States so that it is 5 percentage points lower than the average rate of the 33 western and western-friendly countries with whom the United States often trades. These countries make up the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) – in effect, our trading partners and competitors. Additionally, under this legislation, the Treasury would have the ability to recalibrate the corporate rate every five years to ensure the United States can remain competitive. “For years, our nation’s uncompetitive, confusing and antiquated tax code has been restricting the economic growth of the United States and our job creators,” said Emmer. “Having one of the world’s highest corporate tax rates puts America at a competitive disadvantage and forces jobs and revenue overseas. Since 2000, we have seen a 28 percent reduction of global Fortune 500 companies with United States headquarters, and it is imperative we act now before it is too late. This is why we must enact policies like the CREATE Jobs Act to help our nation’s job creators – from small businesses currently coming to fruition in a garage to Fortune 500 companies – prosper and grow right here in the United States, not abroad.” According to the Tax Foundation, reducing the corporate tax rate to 20 percent would create more than 600,000 jobs, increase the GDP by 3.3 percent and raise wages by 2.8 percent over the next ten years. Americans for Tax Reform has endorsed this legislation, noting that the CREATE Jobs Act “ensures that the U.S. again becomes a leader in the global economy and it stays there.” The National Taxpayers Union also supports the CREATE Jobs Act. The CREATE Jobs Act is H.R. 533. Click here for full text. ###
01.18.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced today that he will be holding an open house in his Washington D.C. office prior to Inauguration Day. “The transfer of power from one president to another is an incredible event to witness and we are pleased that so many Minnesotans will be traveling to Washington, D.C. to participate in this historic day,” said Emmer. “My staff and I would like to welcome all Minnesotans to our nation’s capital and invite you stop by our new office (located in 315 Cannon) to celebrate the incoming administration and the start of the 115th Congress.”What: Congressman Emmer Open House When: Thursday, January 19th, 2017 11:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m.Where: 315 Cannon House Office BuildingCongressman Tom Emmer’s office for the 115th Congress has moved from 503 Cannon House Office Building (CHOB) to 315 CHOB. ###
01.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) reintroduced legislation to support Minnesota’s bid to host a World’s Fair in 2023. The U.S. Wants to Compete for a World Expo Act (H.R. 534) calls for the United States to rejoin the Bureau of International Expositions (BIE), the international organization in charge of overseeing World Expos - better known as World’s Fairs, to further the chances of bringing this event back to the United States. “The United States has not hosted the World’s Fair in more than 30 years and it is time to bring this incredible event back to our great country,” said Emmer. “Minnesota is the greatest state in the country, and this is a fantastic opportunity to showcase the businesses, people and natural beauty our great state has to offer. I am proud to have the support of the entire Minnesota delegation as we work to bring the next World’s Fair to the Midwest.” The U.S. Wants to Compete for a World Expo Act requires the Secretary of State to take the necessary steps for the United States to rejoin the BIE to give cities like Minneapolis a chance at competing for an Expo on the world stage. New Orleans was the last city in the United States to host a World’s Fair in 1984, and over the past decade, there has been a recent upsurge in interest to host once again. Unfortunately, the rules of the BIE effectively prevent American cities from hosting Expos or World’s Fairs unless the United States is a member.H.R. 534 has eight original cosponsors in the House of Representatives, including the entire Minnesota Congressional Delegation. ###
01.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) reintroduced legislation to support Minnesota’s bid to host a World’s Fair in 2023. The U.S. Wants to Compete for a World Expo Act (H.R. 534) calls for the United States to rejoin the Bureau of International Expositions (BIE), the international organization in charge of overseeing World Expos - better known as World’s Fairs, to further the chances of bringing this event back to the United States. “The United States has not hosted the World’s Fair in more than 30 years and it is time to bring this incredible event back to our great country,” said Emmer. “Minnesota is the greatest state in the country, and this is a fantastic opportunity to showcase the businesses, people and natural beauty our great state has to offer. I am proud to have the support of the entire Minnesota delegation as we work to bring the next World’s Fair to the Midwest.” The U.S. Wants to Compete for a World Expo Act requires the Secretary of State to take the necessary steps for the United States to rejoin the BIE to give cities like Minneapolis a chance at competing for an Expo on the world stage. New Orleans was the last city in the United States to host a World’s Fair in 1984, and over the past decade, there has been a recent upsurge in interest to host once again. Unfortunately, the rules of the BIE effectively prevent American cities from hosting Expos or World’s Fairs unless the United States is a member.H.R. 534 has eight original cosponsors in the House of Representatives, including the entire Minnesota Congressional Delegation.
01.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement in response to the U.S. Forest Service (USFS)’s proposal to withdraw 234,328 acres of federal land and minerals in Northeast Minnesota from future leasing, exploration and development. “With only a week left in office, the Obama Administration continues to listen to only one side of most discussions – his. January 20th can’t come soon enough,” said Emmer. “Preserving Minnesota’s beautiful wilderness and ensuring a strong economy do not have to be mutually exclusive. The USFS’ proposal could cost our state hundreds of jobs and billions of dollars of investment in our local economies, which would be a drastic blow to Northern Minnesota. November’s election demonstrated that the American people are tired of seeing their best interest and future livelihoods take a back seat to the political agendas of Washington bureaucrats. I look forward to working with the incoming Administration, Interior Department Secretary Nominee Rep. Ryan Zinke and my colleagues in Congress to reverse these flawed policies, protect our natural resources, and drive our economy forward.” ###
01.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Tom Emmer (R-MN) and Congresswoman Kathy Castor (D-FL) re-introduced the Cuba Trade Act to lift the Cuba embargo. This legislation would allow businesses in the private sector to trade freely with Cuba, while prohibiting taxpayer funds to be used on promotion or development of this new market. “Over the past two years, the United States has taken steps away from a failed policy of isolation and towards normalizing relations with our neighbor just 90 miles off our Florida coast,” said Emmer. “In the 115th Congress we have a real opportunity to continue these efforts to strengthen our national security, open new markets, and empower the Cuban people with human rights and real economic reforms. It is time for the halls of Congress to reflect the views of more than 70% of the American people who favor ending the trade embargo, and we look forward to doing just that.” “The Cuba Trade Act would lift the outdated economic embargo, continue the normalization process and open new business opportunities to benefit the people of the United States and Cuba,” said Castor. “My neighbors, business leaders, faith leaders and others in the Tampa community have been at the forefront of positive change in America’s relationship with the Cuban people. We must turn the page on the Cold War policies of the past and build new bridges for jobs and economic opportunities for both nations and continued improvements in human rights for the Cuban people.”Last month, Emmer, Castor and their colleagues of the bipartisan Cuba Working Group sent a letter to President-elect Trump to encourage continued U.S. engagement efforts with Cuba.The Cuba Trade Act is H.R. 442. ###
12.23.2016	Otsego, MN – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement on the Obama Administration’s refusal to support Israel through today’s United Nation Security Council Resolution vote: “I am beyond disappointed that rather than standing with our strongest ally in the Middle East, the Obama Administration chose to isolate the nation of Israel. Even worse, the Administration has indicated it will not use its veto power to halt this resolution from being put in place. Today’s vote, or lack thereof from the United States, is an incredible setback for the future of peace in Israel and the Middle East as a whole. I am confident that the incoming Administration is committed to upholding and strengthening our relationship with Israel and look forward to supporting those efforts.” ###
12.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement in regards to the U.S. Bureau of Land Management and U.S. Forest Service’s refusal to renew Twin Metals’ federal mineral leases for the proposed copper-nickel mine near Ely, MN. “I am incredibly disappointed that the outgoing Administration has once again acted in poor-faith during their last days in power. Today’s announcement is yet another example of Washington democrats putting politics over what is best for Minnesotans. Twin Metals would bring a much needed boost to the Iron Range, create nearly a thousand new jobs, and introduce millions of dollars to the local economy. I am confident that the incoming Administration will undo the damage the Obama Administration continues to enact as their parting gift to the American people so we can get Minnesotans back to work.” ###
12.09.2016	Washington, D.C. – This week, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) and Congressman Peter DeFazio (OR-04) introduced the Advancing and Promoting Programming (APP) Act. The APP Act creates a centralized website that aims to assist individuals and small businesses access to federal funding in the form of grants, programs, prizes and request for proposals for the creation of mobile and computer applications. The APP Act will also create an platform where Americans are able to rate and comment on the different federal government apps, and retire old or obsolete ones. Lastly, the APP Act will feature successful educational programs and non-profit resources that provide computer science education for the next generation of programmers. “This week is Computer Science Education Week - a week designated to inspire our nation’s students to become interested and involved in computer science,” said Emmer. “We are in the midst of a digital revolution and it is imperative we keep up with the changing times to ensure and improve our future success, and the APP Act does just that. In order for the United States to remain competitive, we must encourage innovation and highlight the importance that science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) skills will have on our future.” “As the global economy becomes increasingly connected, Congress needs to ease the way as much as possible for tech development,” said DeFazio. “The APP Act will help connect students with resources to improve their coding skills and work towards gaining high-paying jobs in the tech sector, as well as offer a comprehensive platform for developers to find funding and resources for building apps. As the app community continues to grow and thrive, it is essential the government helps ensure that developers have the tools they need to stay competitive.” This legislation is supported by The App Association: “The App Association supports The APP Act, and measures like it, which would make computer science education a national priority,” said Jonathan Godfrey, VP for Public Policy and Public Affairs at The App Association. “The integration of software is helping companies become more efficient and productive. This has led to incredible opportunities for people with programming skills and is driving job creation across all industries. We are thrilled that Reps. Emmer and DeFazio are working to ensure their constituents can acquire the skills needed to help local companies grow.”The Advancing and Promoting Programming Act is H.R. 6466. Click here to read the full text. ###
12.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – Reps. Tom Emmer (R-MN), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Rick Crawford (R-AR) and Barbara Lee (D-CA) led a letter, along with more than a dozen of their colleagues from the Cuba Working Group, to President-elect Trump calling for the continued normalization of trade relations with Cuba and to empower the Cuban people. The Cuba Working Group was established to promote increased trade, travel and investment in Cuba, to open new markets, create jobs in both countries, promote human rights and improve the security posture of the United States. “The recent death of Fidel Castro represents a dawn of a new era in Cuban leadership and the United States must use this time to help chart a new course for Cuba’s future,” said Emmer. “I look forward to working with President-elect Trump to continue our efforts in Congress to empower the Cuban people, facilitate economic reforms, promote the expansion of civil and religious liberties, and strengthen our regional and national security abroad.” “Cuban families and small business owners are eager to accelerate economic and human rights reforms and America must continue to support them,” said Castor. “The entrepreneurial spirit is alive and well in Cuba and greater engagement will encourage Cuba to go farther and faster. Slamming the door shut at this point in time would be disastrous. Instead, we should meet the challenge of better diplomatic relations, economic opportunities for Cubans and Americans, expanded travel, and support for the dignity of the Cuban people. “I’ve seen the positive changes already taking place in Cuba’s economy and its people, change that Fidel’s recent passing will hasten,” said Crawford. “If the United States wants to prevent nations like China from dominating Cuba’s future, then we do need to consider ways to capitalize on those changes, for both national security and economic reasons. I strongly encourage the incoming administration to consider incrementally reforming our relationship with Cuba in a way that supports American businesses and aids the Cuban people.” “Over the past two years, we have made tremendous progress in ending our counterproductive Cold War policies toward Cuba,” said Lee. “For the first time in half a century, we have the opportunity to tap into new markets and productively address the disagreements between our two nations. I urge President-Elect Trump to build on these reforms and help chart a new course forward for the U.S. and Cuba.” This letter was signed by Ralph Abraham (R-LA), Justin Amash (R-MI), Donald Beyer (D-VA), Cheri Bustos (D-IL), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Rick Crawford (R-AR), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Mike Doyle (D-PA), Tom Emmer (R-MN), Sam Farr (D-CA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Betty McCollum (D-MN), James McGovern (D-MA), Rick Nolan (D-MN), Ted Poe (R-TX), Mark Sanford (R-SC), and Nydia Velazquez (D-NY). Full text of the letter is below: Dear President-Elect Trump, Congratulations on your election victory. As you and the Transition Team begin developing policy priorities for the next Administration, members of the bipartisan Cuba Working Group (CWG) strongly urge you to support the restoration of U.S. engagement with Cuba. The CWG was founded on the belief that increasing trade, travel and investment in Cuba will not only open new markets and create jobs in both countries, but also promote human rights and better hemispheric relations as well as improve the security posture of the United States. Americans support the easing of commercial restrictions in Cuba because it will result in increased jobs, economic growth and productivity gains for the United States economy. In fact, the U.S. International Trade Commission (USITC) released a report earlier this year that found if U.S. restrictions on Cuba were lifted, U.S. exports of selected agricultural and manufactured goods could increase to a total of roughly $2.2 billion, up from a mere $180 million in 2015. Policies that improve commercial relations could potentially create thousands of jobs here in the United States and open valuable new markets for our exports. The restrictions the U.S. government imposes on American business activity in Cuba have not only stymied America’s economic potential, they have provided the repressive Cuban regime with an excuse on which to place blame for their own economic woes. Additionally, there is little credible evidence that sanctions have improved the human rights situation in Cuba, a top priority of the CWG. The recent death of Fidel Castro represents a dawn of a new era in Cuban leadership and America must use this opportunity to help chart a new course for Cuba’s future. We believe America’s greatest ambassadors - the American people and the U.S. private sector – will always be the most effective conduit for the spread of American influence. Continued engagement by our citizens and businesses will help to empower the Cuban people, facilitate economic reforms, and promote the expansion of civil and religious liberties. Finally, improving our relationship with Cuba would also align the U.S. government with the will of the American people and improve our standing with our regional allies. Recent polling from the Pew Research Center show that 73 percent of voters supported renewed diplomatic relations and 72 percent support ending the embargo. In addition, a recent poll out of Florida International University showed that 63 percent of Cuban-Americans in Miami want to see the embargo lifted. Global support for the normalization of our relations also remains overwhelming, particularly among some of our most important economic and security partners in Latin America. We urge you to support the continued expansion of U.S. engagement with Cuba and allow our private sector to help shape a post-Fidel Cuba. We look forward to the opportunity to work with you on policies that empower the Cuban people and create greater opportunity for Americans. We appreciate your consideration of our request. ###
12.07.2016	Klobuchar and Emmer joined with a bipartisan congressional coalition and Cuban entrepreneurs to discuss how increased trade is benefiting American economy and allowing Cuba’s private sector to grow Last year, Klobuchar introduced the bipartisan Freedom to Export to Cuba Act in the Senate to lift the trade embargo and knock down the legal barriers to Americans doing business in Cuba; Emmer has introduced the House companion version of the bill WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar, Representative Tom Emmer, and a bipartisan congressional coalition held a press conference with Cuban entrepreneurs to highlight the need for Congress to lift the trade embargo with Cuba. Last year, Klobuchar introduced the bipartisan Freedom to Export to Cuba Act in the Senate to lift the trade embargo and knock down the legal barriers to Americans doing business in Cuba. Emmer has introduced the House companion version of the bill. “For far too long, U.S.-Cuba policy has been defined by the conflicts of the past instead of the realities of today and the possibilities for the future. I’ve spoken with business owners in Cuba and in Minnesota who look forward to the new economic opportunities that would come with lifting the embargo,” Klobuchar said. “We need to turn the page on the failed policy of isolation and build on the progress we have made to open up engagement with Cuba by ending the embargo once and for all.” “Over the past two years there have been important changes on the island just 90 miles off our coast,” said Emmer. “The private-sector economy in Cuba continues to grow and today, we heard from four incredible young women who have excelled as entrepreneurs and are eager for the ability to grow, expand and continue their success. I look forward to working with President-elect Trump and the 115th Congress to make their success a reality and provide new opportunities for both Cubans and Americans alike.” Klobuchar’s bipartisan Freedom to Export to Cuba Act, which currently has 25 Senate cosponsors, lifts the current embargo and allows more U.S. goods to be exported to Cuba. The bill would eliminate the legal barriers to Americans doing business in Cuba, boosting job creation and exports. It does not repeal provisions of current law that address human rights in Cuba or that allow individuals and businesses to pursue claims against the Cuban government. Emmer is the lead sponsor of the Cuba Trade Act which will lift the Cuba embargo that has been in place for more than half a decade. Additionally, Emmer is a chair of the U.S. House of Representatives’ Cuba Working Group which was established to promote increased trade, travel and investment in Cuba, to open new markets, create jobs in both countries, promote human rights and improve the security posture of the United States. CAPTION: Klobuchar and Emmer discuss the need for Congress to lift the trade embargo with Cuba. ###
12.06.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) today announced that his office will serve as a Toys for Tots drop-off site for the program hosted by the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve. From now through December 20th, 2016, Minnesotans can stop by Emmer’s district office in Otsego to donate new, unwrapped toys. Donations can be made Monday through Friday between 9:00am and 5:00pm. “In honor of the spirit of giving, my staff and I wanted to help bring joy to others,” said Emmer. “Minnesotans are the most gracious and generous people, and hosting a Toys for Tots donation site to help those in the northwest suburbs and central Minnesota give back more easily is the least we can do. Any role we can play in making the holidays a little brighter for children across this great state is a good idea to me.”What: Toys for Tots donation siteWhen: Now through December 20th 9:00am – 5:00pm Where: Congressman Emmer’s District Office 9201 Quaday Ave NE Suite 206 Otsego, MN 55330 ###
11.29.2016	Otsego, MN – Today, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced he will be holding his tenth town hall of the year in Carver County next month. When first taking office, Emmer promised to remain accessible and accountable to all Minnesotans in his district. He has more than fulfilled his promise which is proven by the fact that this upcoming town hall will be his 24th town hall in his first term. “I place a high importance on these town halls because the most crucial part of my job is to listen to the people for whom I work,” said Emmer. “These town halls are a great way for the people of Minnesota’s Sixth District to ask questions, give their input and address any concerns they may have, and I am looking forward to having those conversations." Date: December 19, 2016 Time: 9:00 AM Location: Watertown City Hall 309 Lewis Avenue S. Watertown, MN 55388
11.26.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the below statement following the death of Fidel Castro: “The passing of Fidel Castro is yet another reminder that a new day is dawning in Cuba. As the remaining vestiges of the Cold War continue to fade, the United States has a chance to help usher in a new Cuba; a Cuba where every citizen has the rights, freedom and opportunity they deserve. Instead of continuing down a path of isolation and exclusion, now is the time for Congress and the new administration to work with the Cuban people and assist in the transition to a democracy and market economy that will improve the lives of the 11 million Cubans living just 90 miles off our coast.” ###
11.23.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement regarding the U.S. District Court in the Eastern District of Texas’s preliminary injunction of the Obama Administration’s overtime rule. “Yesterday, a federal judge dealt yet another blow to the Obama Administration’s overreaching regulatory efforts. For the fourth time in less than two years, an executive action from President Obama has been halted by the courts, granting relief to business owners across the country. This injunction is a huge win for the hardworking men and women who face the very real threat of reduced workplace flexibility and fewer hours if implemented. I applaud this decision and look forward to rolling back more of the current Administration’s unilateral regulations under President Trump.” ###
11.11.2016	Otsego, MN – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the below statement following the announcement of Medica reaching the cap on their enrollment: “This morning, Minnesotans looking to purchase insurance through MNsure hit yet another snag in their attempts to get health care coverage. Just ten days after open enrollment began, Medica has already hit their enrollment cap. “The Affordable Care Act was supposed to reduce cost and increase access, yet today Minnesotans are facing the 4th highest premium increases and many Minnesotans only have one plan to ‘choose’ from. We cannot afford to simply put a bandaid on the failures of this horrendous law while Minnesota families continue to suffer. It is imperative that we work toward real solutions that put the patient first.” ###
10.27.2016	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) finalized their Intrastate Crowdfunding rules that modernized important regulations which will help entrepreneurs create jobs, launch startups, and grow existing businesses. Earlier this month Congressman Emmer (R-MN) and Congresswoman Moore (D-WI), along with 13 other members of Congress, led a bipartisan letter to the SEC suggesting they finalize their proposed intrastate crowdfunding rules, with only modest changes. Yesterday, the SEC voted unanimously to enact these rules incorporating some of this letter's suggested changes. “Currently the rate of startup formation is half of what it was 40 years ago and business lending is still lower than it was prior to the economic crisis,” said Emmer. “I’m pleased to see the SEC is working with Congress to update antiquated regulations that are stifling the ability of the entrepreneurs to access the capital they need to create the opportunities of tomorrow.” "I applaud the SEC for their action which will translate into potentially more capital for our nation’s small business and entrepreneurs,” said Moore. "This welcomed rule will provide certainty for states across the country as they work with small and local businesses to promote intrastate crowdfunding while maintaining important investor protections." The new rules grants entrepreneurs more flexibility to solicit investors through online mediums and increases the amount of capital they can raise through crowdfunding. The result will be more resources for our businessmen and woman to create the products and services consumers desire and new job opportunities for Americans of all walks of life.Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) and Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) are members of the House Financial Services Committee. Click here to read the October 7, 2016 letter to the SEC.
10.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, and Representatives Collin Peterson, John Kline, Betty McCollum, Tim Walz, Keith Ellison, and Tom Emmer, today urged the Administration to provide federal assistance to Minnesota communities impacted by the devastating flooding that caused extensive damage across much of the state. In a letter, the federal lawmakers urged the President to issue a Major Disaster Declaration to assist communities that are working hard to recover from significant flood damage. Earlier today, Governor Mark Dayton formally requested federal assistance to help communities rebuild and recover. “On September 21 and 22, 2016, torrential rains and flash flooding caused extensive damage to infrastructure and properties across central and southern Minnesota. Many of these areas received up to 10 inches of rain, the majority of which fell over the course of several hours,” the lawmakers wrote. “Many of these same counties saw significant flood damage in September 2010 and again in the summer of 2014. We are confident that the communities impacted by these storms will also recover and rebuild, but we urge you to make the federal government a full partner in that effort.” The full text of the letter is below: Dear Mr. President: We are writing to you in strong support of the request for a Major Disaster Declaration to assist communities in Minnesota that are working hard to recover from recent rain storms and flooding that have caused significant damage. On September 21 and 22, 2016, torrential rains and flash flooding caused extensive damage to infrastructure and properties across central and southern Minnesota. Many of these areas received up to 10 inches of rain, the majority of which fell over the course of several hours. The Governor of Minnesota has determined that the damage caused by these storms is beyond the capability of our state and local governments to address on their own, and as a result has requested a Presidential Disaster Declaration for Public Assistance in Blue Earth, Fillmore, Freeborn, Goodhue, Houston, Le Sueur, Rice, Steele, and Waseca counties in Minnesota. Additionally, the Governor has requested Individual Household Assistance (IHA) for Blue Earth, Waseca, Steele, and Freeborn Counties due to the loss of furnaces and water heaters in a significant number of homes. Given the degree of damage, we strongly encourage you to issue a disaster declaration in a timely manner, which will allow the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to begin to help impacted communities access federal assistance for debris removal and to repair critical infrastructure. Minnesotans have displayed their resiliency in recovering from disasters in recent years including deadly tornadoes and widespread flooding. Many of these same counties saw significant flood damage in September 2010 and again in the summer of 2014. We are confident that the communities impacted by these storms will also recover and rebuild, but we urge you to make the federal government a full partner in that effort. Thank you for your attention to this request, and we look forward to working with you to assist the recovery efforts in Minnesota. Sincerely, ###
10.14.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (R-MN) and Congressman Bill Foster (D-IL) led a bipartisan letter, along with 24 of their colleagues, encouraging the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to do everything in their current authority to expand access to treatment options for those currently fighting substance use disorders. As it currently stands, CMS rules and a Medicaid policy known as the Institutions for Mental Disease (IMD) exclusion prevents federal funding from being used for the care of patients in a mental health or substance abuse facility with more than sixteen beds or for stays of more than 15 days - drastically limiting treatment options for those who need help the most. “Unfortunately, an opioid epidemic is plaguing our nation and my home state of Minnesota has not been immune,” said Emmer. “It is devastating to learn about so many Americans who will never reach their life’s potential as a result of their addictions and to hear from grieving parents who have lost a child to these terrible drugs. But what is perhaps even more heartbreaking is knowing that many of these drug-related deaths may have been prevented if more treatment options were available today. We owe it to each and every one of these individuals to ensure that CMS does everything in their power to make treatment more effective and accessible.” “Opioid and heroin addiction is a public health crisis, and this epidemic affects too many people nationwide and in Illinois,” Foster said. “We need to stop treating this epidemic like a moral failing and start treating it like the medical condition it is. We also need to make sure medical treatments remain affordable and accessible to everyone who suffers from addiction.” This letter was signed by: Rod Blum (R-IA), Judy Chu (D-CA), Katherine Clark (D-MA), Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Sean Duffy (R-WI), Tom Emmer (R-MN), Michael Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Bill Foster (D-IL), Michael M. Honda (D-CA), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Ann McLane Kuster (D-NH), Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), James McGovern (D-MA), Rick Nolan (D-MN), Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), Collin Peterson (D-MN), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Bruce Poliquin (R-ME), Adam Smith (D-WA), Christopher Smith (R-NY), and Steve Stivers (R-OH). Full text of the letter is below: Dear Administrator Slavitt, We write to you today with great concern over the current Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) policy that adversely impacts constituents with substance use disorder (SUD) and chemical dependency treatment providers across our districts. We urge CMS to utilize every tool under current statutory authorizations to improve access to treatment options for those struggling with substance use disorders. From abuse of prescription drugs to cocaine, methamphetamines, and new synthetic drugs, our country has experienced a substance abuse epidemic that has exposed several barriers to patient care. In 2013, 6.7 million Americans took medication not prescribed to them. More than 100 Americans die from drug overdoses every day, and nearly half of those deaths are due to opioids. These trends hit our children the hardest. One in four college age kids have reported using pain pills that are not prescribed to them. Opioid dependence is a crippling addiction that needs to be treated as the medical condition we know it to be. Currently, numerous chemical dependency treatment facilities exceed the Institutions for Mental Diseases (IMDs) exclusion for Medicaid coverage, which sets a cap of 16-beds. It is not clear whether an exception process exists or if there are any criteria outlined for an exemption to this rule. Many of our states should be recognized for the diverse nature in which services are insured and provided through non-profits, managed care, congregate care and residential community treatment among other options, many of which have more than 16 beds. Additionally, we have serious concerns about the recent managed care rule that only allows for 15 days of care furnished in an IMD setting over a 30-day period. To cap a patient’s stay at a treatment facility at 15 days is simply unrealistic. These patients need time to recover, not only from physical dependency, but also from mental and emotional trauma. A 15-day limit is just not practical and does not take into account the numerous studies suggesting the cost-savings, readmissions reductions, overdose preventions, and recovery efficacy from longer lengths of stay in residential settings as a patient progresses down the clinical continuum of care. CMS should be commended for the steps it has taken to increase eligibility and provide care for those most in need. Coordinating behavioral treatment with methods to mitigate physical injuries has reduced costs and improved the lives of patients. Several recent rules have established your willingness to work towards goals that reduce this epidemic. However, we urge you to continue your efforts to ensure you take every step to remove barriers to substance abuse treatment including removing SUD from the definition of mental disease for the purposes of determining if a treatment facility is an IMD. We would appreciate any guidance on what medical assisted services can be covered in order to mitigate the adverse impact on our nation’s treatment facilities. We look forward to your timely response. ###
10.12.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Tom Emmer, today announced that the U.S. Department of Justice has awarded Anoka County a grant of $350,000 to establish a drug court and an additional grant of $299,911 to expand its veterans treatment court. The drug court will provide non-violent offenders who suffer from addiction with support to achieve sobriety and foster positive behaviors to avoid relapse into criminal conduct. The veterans treatment courts seek to treat veterans suffering from substance abuse and mental health disorders, while helping ensure public safety. These special courts combine rigorous treatment and personal accountability, with the goal of breaking the cycle of drug use and criminal behavior. “As a former prosecutor, I know firsthand the dangers that drugs pose to individuals, families, and communities. Drug courts help curb repeat offenders and help drive down crime rates while saving taxpayers money,” Klobuchar said. “Veterans treatment courts are especially important for our veterans struggling to break the cycle of addiction. This grant will provide Anoka County with proven tools and treatment options that address substance abuse head-on.” "Too often, our current criminal justice system doesn’t do enough to help people, including many veterans, who are struggling with addiction or mental illness," Franken said. "I’ve been fighting for years to bolster federal support for mental health services—including special support for veterans who need help—and to improve outcomes for people with mental illness in our criminal justice system. Minnesota is already doing some good things to improve collaboration between our criminal justice and mental health systems, and this funding will help those efforts by providing Anoka County with support to help veterans and others get the treatment and services they need.” “One thing practicing law has taught me is that locking them up and throwing away the key is not the best solution,” Emmer said. “Our nation’s heroes and those suffering from addiction benefit most when prosecutors, defense attorneys, probation officers, and the community come together to chart a path towards restoring them to a place where they can once again contribute to our society. Those who have sacrificed so much must know that the communities they return to also support them and this grant will provide critical funding to do just that.” Klobuchar has been a strong advocate for drug courts and a longtime supporter of veterans treatment courts. The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), which Klobuchar introduced with three other senators and was signed into law in July, authorized funding for veterans treatment courts. Earlier this year, Klobuchar and Senator Roger Wicker (R-MS) led a bipartisan letter that was signed by 32 senators to the Senate Appropriations Committee calling for funding for drug courts and veterans treatment courts. For years, Franken—a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee—has been working to improve the criminal justice system. His Comprehensive Justice and Mental Health Act, which passed the full Senate last year, would bring more resources to law enforcement, the courts, and correctional facilities and help them better deal with the increasingly prevalent mental health issues they encounter. He's held discussions on his legislation all across Minnesota, meeting with law enforcement, advocates, and other experts on how to best reform how our criminal justice system handles mental illness. Emmer has been a long-time advocate for our nation’s veterans. In his first term, Emmer has written two separate letters to the Department of Justice highlighting the success of Anoka County’s Veterans Treatment Court and the potential benefits an expanded drug court could bring to the county. Emmer is also a cosponsor of the Comprehensive Justice and Mental Health Act which would allow grants for the effective treatment of those with mental health problems in the criminal justice system and promote community involvement efforts that reduce recidivism. ###
10.07.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) and Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04), along with 13 other members of Congress, sent a bipartisan letter to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) encouraging them to update intrastate crowdfunding regulations. “While this issue tends to get rather technical, the bottom line is that dated regulations are thwarting the ability of entrepreneurs to raise capital,” said Emmer. “This means fewer jobs and opportunities for Minnesotans. However, as a member of the House Financial Service Committee, I can help fix this by working with the SEC to modernize these obsolete regulations.” The bipartisan letter calls for specific changes to intrastate crowdfunding rules that would allow more flexible use of the internet to find investors. Additionally, this reform will enable states to play a greater role in establishing maximum amounts entrepreneurs can raise via crowdfunding. Cosigners: Carney (D-MA), Ellison (D-MN), Emmer (R-MN), Fincher (R-TN), Garrett (R-NJ), Heck (D-WA), Hurt (R-VA), King (R-NY), McHenry (R-NC), Messer (R-IN), Moore (D-WI), Neugebauer (R-TX), Pittenger (R-NC), Sewell (D-AL), and Williams (R-TX). Congressman Tom Emmer represents Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District and is a member of the Financial Services Committee.Click here to read the letter
09.29.2016	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) introduced the Retirement Inflation Protection Act which will help seniors by reducing their tax burden caused by inflation. The Retirement Inflation Protection Act will protect all Americans over the age of 59.5 years old from paying capital gains taxes, caused by inflation, on assets like a house, a business, or stocks. This will ensure that Seniors are only paying capital gains on real increases in value of an asset, thus, allowing them to keep more of their own money for retirement. “Inflation is a regressive tax that harms low-income Americans, including many seniors, by making the products they depend on more expensive while reducing the value of their hard-earned money,” said Emmer. “It also forces some seniors to pay inflation-induced taxes and seniors should not be forced to pay taxes on inflation caused by the Federal Reserve. Assisting Minnesota’s seniors is a priority of mine and I am proud to introduce legislation that will help them by making our tax system more fair.” The Association of Mature American Citizens (AMAC) has endorsed this legislation.Congressman Tom Emmer represents Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District and is a member of the Financial Services Committee.The Retirement Inflation Protection Act is H.R. 6246. Click here to read the full text. ###
09.27.2016	Washington, D.C. - Following the President’s announcement nominating Ambassador Jeffrey DeLaurentis as the U.S. Ambassador to Cuba, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the below statement: “For the past 50 years, the United States’ relationship with Cuba has been one of isolation – and after five decades, it is clear this policy has been a failure. We have made impressive strides during the 114th Congress to normalize relations with Cuba, and having Ambassador Jeffrey DeLaurentis as the first U.S. Ambassador to Cuba in more than five decades would further these efforts. This move will advance the United States’ goal of protecting our economic and national security interests, as well as empower an advocate who fully embodies our nation’s strong support for improved human rights in Cuba. Mr. DeLaurentis has an impressive resume working with Cuba and throughout Latin America and I am confident he will be successful in fostering U.S. interests with this island nation. I applaud this progress and urge the Senate to confirm this nomination.” ###
09.18.2016	Otsego, MN - Following the stabbing at Crossroads Mall in St. Cloud, Minnesota yesterday, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement: "The person who attacked innocent people at the Crossroads Mall in St. Cloud last night struck terror into the hearts of all Americans. Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims of this attack and we hope for their speedy recovery. The citizen who stopped this evil man and ended his attack is a hero and has the gratitude and admiration of us all. There has been an ever growing list of attacks against the United States and our allies, and they must not go unanswered. I am committed now and always to push for stronger action against the ultimate sources of this terror. I will continue my push for the declaration of war against ISIS to be brought to the House Floor so that we can fully rid the world of this evil. The safety of our citizens is our number one concern. I also urge the Senate to support and pass The SAFE Act, which the House passed last year, which would strengthen security checks on those entering our country. Mayor Kleis and local law enforcement have my full support in this difficult time. I remain always confident that the American spirit will endure and prevail.
09.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, the Minnesota delegation introduced a resolution in the U.S. House of Representatives to honor the life of Jacob Wetterling and the efforts by Patty Wetterling and the Wetterling family for finding abducted children and supporting their families. “The disappearance of Jacob Wetterling in October of 1989 shattered the innocence of families across Minnesota and the country,” the lawmakers wrote. “As parents, we all held out hope with the Wetterling family over the past 27 years and we grieved with them after Jacob was found. Patty Wetterling and her family have been pillars of strength through a dark time in our state, and their efforts are absolutely commended. Through their tragedy, the Wetterlings have worked tirelessly to prevent child exploitation and abductions across the United States so that other parents don’t have to go through what they have over the past 27 years.” Senators Klobuchar and Franken introduced this resolution in the U.S. Senate earlier this week. The full text of the House resolution can be found here. ###
09.14.2016	WASHINGTON, DC –Today, the Minnesota congressional delegation urged support for Minnesota’s bid to host the 2023 World’s Fair. In a bipartisan letter to Secretary of State John Kerry and Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker, the Minnesota lawmakers highlighted the state’s innovative economy, welcoming community, and many accomplishments in promoting health and wellness. “Minnesota’s Expo 2023 is a strong candidate to host the World’s Fair,” the lawmakers wrote. “It will foster an exchange of ideas, encourage new global partnerships and advance innovation in health and wellness that will benefit the state, country and world. We urge full and fair consideration of a recommendation that the bid is in the national interest.” The full text of the letter, which was signed by Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representatives Collin Peterson, Betty McCollum, John Kline, Keith Ellison, Tim Walz, Rick Nolan, Erik Paulsen, and Tom Emmer, is below: Dear Secretary Kerry and Secretary Pritzker: We write in support of Minnesota’s bid to host the World’s Fair in 2023. Hosting the World’s Fair in the United States for the first time since 1984 will strengthen U.S. economic leadership around the world. As a global leader in health, the theme of “Wellness and Well-Being for All” will highlight Minnesota’s many accomplishments in promoting health and wellness. Minnesota is home to a welcoming community and an innovative economy. Every year we host hundreds of thousands of international visitors who come as students, patients, tourists, or on business. These global ties help to fuel our economic growth. Minnesota has a strong history of innovation. Our universities and companies are constantly bringing new products and services to the market which help people live healthier lives. Of all the states, Minnesota has the second most Fortune 500 companies per capita and the Minneapolis-Saint Paul region offers many exciting opportunities to showcase the creative work these companies are doing that drives our economy forward. Minnesota’s leading institutions have come together to ensure that visitors will experience firsthand our history, culture and recreational activities. The robust transportation network will easily bring people to and from our venues, including the University of Minnesota, State Fair Grounds, stadiums and parks throughout the region. Visitors from across the globe will have a unique chance to explore our state’s accomplishments in health, medicine, and wellness. Minnesota’s Expo 2023 is a strong candidate to host the World’s Fair. It will foster an exchange of ideas, encourage new global partnerships and advance innovation in health and wellness that will benefit the state, country and world. We urge full and fair consideration of a recommendation that the bid is in the national interest. We thank you for considering this request and look forward to working with you. ###
09.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) supported a package of pro-growth, pro-business reforms which includes his legislation, the Micro Offering Safe Harbor Act. This bill was included in the Accelerating Access to Capital Act which passed off the House Floor with a bipartisan vote of 236-178. The Micro Offering Safe Harbor Act, H.R. 4850, is Emmer’s third bill to pass out of the U.S. House of Representatives in his first term. Since the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act six years ago, the number of credit unions and community banks in the state of Minnesota has been reduced by nearly 25 percent. As a direct result of this trend nationwide, three million fewer small business loans are made each year. “Small businesses are responsible for nearly 70 percent of new jobs, and today’s small business is tomorrow’s big business,” said Emmer. “If this current lack of small business lending and entrepreneurial access to start-up capital continues, who knows what big business of tomorrow may never be realized. That is why I am proud to have a bill included in the Accelerating Access to Capital Act. By making it easier for entrepreneurs to access capital, Minnesotans will be able to launch their business ideas, and encourage the creation of jobs, wealth and opportunity for everyone. It’s time for us to make it easier for people to achieve the American Dream by getting government out of their way and empowering people to do what they do best – create, innovate and prosper.” The Micro Offering Safe Harbor Act is not a new law, but rather clarifies the Securities Act of 1933 by making an explicit safe harbor for certain non-public offerings. This bill allows small businesses to operate with confidence that they are not in violation of the law when doing a non-public securities offering if they meet the following criteria: Each investor has a substantive pre-existing relationship with an owner; There are 35 or fewer investors; and The aggregate amount of the investment does not exceed $500,000. Several small business advocacy organizations have endorsed the Micro Offering Safe Harbor Act including the National Small Business Association and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Council (SBEC). The SBEC stated, “The legislation would appropriately scale federal rules and regulatory compliance for small businesses, thus providing another practical option for entrepreneurs to raise the capital they need to startup or grow their firms.”The Micro Offering Safe Harbor is H.R. 4850. Click here to read the full text.Congressman Emmer serves as a Member of the House Financial Services Committee.
09.03.2016	Otsego, MN - Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement regarding the recent developments in the Jacob Wetterling case: "Jacob Wetterling's disappearance on October 22nd, 1989 shattered the innocence of all Minnesotans. Today, Jacquie and I join people across this nation in sending our deepest sympathies to the Wetterling family. Throughout this ordeal, Patty has been a pillar of strength and the ultimate example to me and many others of the love every parent has for their children. While this is not the outcome we hoped and prayed for these past 27 years, we now hope and pray today that the Wetterling family is able to find some peace and comfort at this tragic time." ###
09.02.2016	WASHINGTON, DC –Following efforts from the Minnesota congressional delegation, the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) announced it has finalized a decision to grant nonstop service between Tokyo’s Haneda Airport and Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport (MSP). In May, the Minnesota lawmakers sent a bipartisan letter to Secretary Foxx highlighting the importance of access to the growing Asian markets for Minnesota businesses and travelers, including the 17 Fortune 500 companies headquartered in Minnesota, and urged DOT to consider Delta Air Lines’ application for service between Tokyo’s Haneda Airport and MSP. “As chair of the Senate Travel and Tourism Caucus, I know how important travel and tourism are to the economy of Minnesota,” said Senator Amy Klobuchar. “Access to the growing Asian markets are particularly important to Minnesota businesses, and why I led efforts with my Minnesota colleagues to ensure that our state continues to have direct access to Asia. This finalized announcement that MSP and Tokyo’s more convenient Haneda Airport will be connected by nonstop flights is great news for Minnesota’s economy and those traveling to and from our state.” “Businesses and families in Minnesota rely on MSP, which is a vital hub for our state economy and for travel,” said Senator Al Franken. “We worked together in a bipartisan way to open Haneda Airport to nonstop service between Tokyo and Minnesota because it will help promote job growth and expand travel opportunities. This is good news for Minnesota."“Through this final announcement, Minnesota and Tokyo will be directly linked,” said Representative Collin Peterson. “This new service will better connect Minnesota businesses with those in Tokyo and provide new opportunities for growth in Minnesota.” “The Department of Transportation's decision to finalize nonstop service between MSP and Tokyo’s Haneda Airport is great news for our Twin Cities region,” said Representative Betty McCollum. “This essential airline service will help forge even stronger connections between Minnesota and Japan, particularly Minnesota businesses that are working to succeed in Asian markets.” "The jobs and business commerce this new Delta route produces will benefit Minnesota's Eighth District and our entire state. It's a major win for Minnesota," Nolan said. “A direct route to Haneda airport will provide more convenient access to Asia, strengthen trade relations, and lead to more economic growth and exciting opportunities for Minnesota businesses, which are some of the most innovative and enterprising in the world,” said Representative Erik Paulsen. “I’m very proud to see this bipartisan effort yield such a positive result for Minnesota businesses and jobs.” “Trade and travel are critical to Minnesota’s economy and securing daytime slots from MSP to Haneda ensures that Minnesota businesses will remain at the forefront of the global economy,” said Representative Tom Emmer. “I’m proud to have worked so closely with the entire delegation advocating for our Minnesota companies and workers.” The full text of the letter the lawmakers sent in May is below: Dear Secretary Foxx: We write to urge full and fair consideration of Delta Air Lines’ application for a daytime slot pair allowing for service between Haneda Airport and Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport (MSP). Earlier this year, we wrote to express our concern that a limited opening of Haneda Airport could make the current route between MSP and Narita International Airport economically unsustainable. We noted that the MSP to Narita route is the only direct flight between Minnesota and Asia. Given the new bilateral aviation agreement with Japan, allowing service between MSP and Haneda is now imperative to maintaining Minnesota’s connection to Asia. Access to growing Asian markets is particularly important to Minnesota businesses, including the 17 Fortune 500 companies headquartered in our state. In 2015 employees from just 25 businesses in Minnesota took more than 10,000 flights from Minneapolis/St. Paul to Tokyo. Minnesota competes to attract businesses by creating a positive business climate based on good governance, a strong workforce and world-class infrastructure. Losing the only nonstop flight connection to Asia would damage Minnesota’s competitiveness. Delta’s proposal to use MSP as a hub to connect 114 U.S. cities to Haneda will have benefits in Minnesota and beyond. Many Midwestern communities will also benefit from shorter flight times compared to alternative hubs. In addition, the connecting traffic will strengthen MSP as an international hub and leverage the existing transportation infrastructure and vibrant aviation sector in the Twin Cities. Ensuring Minnesota receives a new daytime slot pair is also essential for maintaining a competitive balance in the transpacific market. Currently, robust competition among three global alliances facilitates consumer choice and puts downward pressure on airfares. The limited opening of Haneda Airport has the potential to upset this balance as American Airlines and United Airlines currently control 79 percent of the global Haneda Airport market in conjunction with their Japanese partner airlines. Thank you for your attention to our views. We look forward to working with you on this important issue. ###
08.29.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representatives Collin Peterson, John Kline, Tim Walz, Erik Paulsen, Betty McCollum, Keith Ellison, Rick Nolan, and Tom Emmer, have urged the Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to carefully consider the potential impact of a proposed rule that could prevent port authorities and other political subdivisions from issuing tax-exempt bonds, a key financing tool for major projects. A diverse array of entities in Minnesota that currently qualify as political subdivisions, including certain port authorities, housing and redevelopment authorities, and economic development authorities, are currently allowed to sell tax-exempt bonds to fund critical local projects. The proposed IRS rule would change the definition of political subdivision in a way that could exclude certain Minnesota entities and stop them from using tax-exempt financing for major projects. In a letter to the Treasury Department and the IRS, Klobuchar, Franken, and members of the Minnesota congressional delegation called on the agency to ensure that changes to current policy do not harm public bodies that provide vital community services. “We urge you to consider the concerns raised by a number of Minnesota entities that may be harmed by the Internal Revenue Service’s proposed rule on the definition of political subdivision. While we recognize your concern about certain entities that may be unfairly taking advantage of the current definition of political subdivision for private gain, we believe that it’s critical to ensure that changes to current policy do not harm public bodies that provide vital community services,” the lawmakers wrote. “Unfortunately, if the proposed rule were adopted without change, some of them could lose their status as political subdivisions, threatening the critical public work of these entities. We hope you will closely consider the potential impact of your proposed rule and ensure that it does not limit the ability of public entities in Minnesota from providing important community services.” The full text of the Minnesota congressional delegation’s letter is below: Dear Secretary Lew and Commissioner Koskinen: We urge you to consider the concerns raised by a number of Minnesota entities that may be harmed by the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) proposed rule on the definition of political subdivision. While we recognize your concern about certain entities that may be unfairly taking advantage of the current definition of political subdivision for private gain, we believe that it’s critical to ensure that changes to current policy do not harm public bodies that provide vital community services. Minnesota features a diverse array of entities authorized under state and local law to sell tax-exempt bonds and fund public projects. These entities include port authorities, housing and redevelopment authorities, and others that contribute significantly to our Minnesota community. Many of these entities currently qualify as political subdivisions, which allows them to issue tax-exempt bonds. We believe these widely respected entities should continue to be able to use tax-exempt bonds to appropriately further their missions. Unfortunately, if the proposed rule were adopted without change, some of them could lose their status as political subdivisions, threatening the critical public work of these entities. Two aspects of the rule deserve particular scrutiny. First, the proposed rule would only allow an entity to qualify as a political subdivision if it engages in activities with no more than an “incidental private benefit.” If adopted as proposed, some Minnesota entities are concerned that this provision could stop some entities from using tax-exempt financing for widely supported economic development activities. Second, the proposed rule contains unclear provisions on the level of control elected officials or voters must have of a political subdivision. As a result, a number of Minnesota political subdivisions believe this provision could unfairly bar some transparent, accountable entities from using tax-exempt bonds to support critical local projects. We hope you will closely consider the potential impact of your proposed rule and ensure that it does not limit the ability of public entities in Minnesota from providing important community services. Thank you for considering these concerns and others expressed in the comment process by Minnesota’s political subdivisions and their community partners. ###
08.29.2016	Otsego, MN – Today, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced that he will be holding his seventh town hall of the year. This town hall will be held in Stearns County. When Congressman Emmer first took office, he promised the fine folks of Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District that he would remain transparent, accessible and accountable. That is why during his first year of office, Congressman Emmer held a town hall in every county within Minnesota’s Sixth District, and plans to do the same this year. “As Congressman for Minnesota’s Sixth District, it is my number one priority to answer to the people that I represent,” said Emmer. “That is why I place such a high importance on town halls, they are a great platform for people to ask questions and address their concerns. I am excited for this next town hall, which will mark my 21st town hall since joining Congress, and I hope to see many familiar faces in the crowd.” Date: September 16, 2016 Time: 8:00AM-9:00AM Location: St. Cloud City Hall - Council Chambers 400 2nd St. South St. Cloud, MN 56301 ###
08.12.2016	Mankato, MN – Today, Representative Tim Walz (D-MN) and Representative Tom Emmer (R-MN), provided an update regarding the St. Cloud VA Health Care System. After hearing from multiple whistleblowers about the St. Cloud VA, Rep. Walz, along with Rep. Emmer, Senator Klobuchar and Senator Franken, forwarded whistleblower complaints to the Secretary of the VA and pushed for concerns to be addressed. Walz and Emmer made the following statement upon release of the VA Office of Inspector General (OIG) report: “This report by the VA Office of Inspector General validates our most serious concerns: that panel sizes were misrepresented by St. Cloud VA leadership and they were larger than reported. Misrepresenting panel sizes is completely unacceptable and a serious breach of the public trust. We call on the Secretary of the VA to hold anyone who intentionally misled veterans, Members of Congress and the public accountable, and we fully expect that whistleblowers who alerted us to the discrepancy will not be retaliated against. We will continue our oversight to ensure veterans in St. Cloud have critical access to high-quality care.” The VA Office of Inspector General Reports can be found here: VA OIG Oversight Reports The VA’s Office of Medical Inspector (OMI) also launched an investigation. On July 29th, this report was shared with our offices and, earlier this week, Walz and Emmer made it public. In the interest of employee privacy, redactions of personally identifiable information have been made by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). A link to the report can be found here: VA OMI Report In response to the OMI report, Walz and Emmer made the following statement: “We are incredibly grateful to those whistleblowers that came forward. While this report did not substantiate all allegations, it does makes clear they played a vital role in shedding light on serious concerns in the St. Cloud VA Health Care System. Their voices will continue to inform improvements and drive accountability.” “We are encouraged by what we are hearing about positive changes being made by Acting Director Cheryl Thieschafer since she assumed her current leadership role in June 2016. We hope for continued progress through the Relationship by Objective effort facilitated by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. We value the work of the employees at St. Cloud VA Health Care System and will keep our doors open to any VA employee or veteran who has ideas for improvement.” For additional information regarding the Congressmen’s oversight and work, please click here: VA Reform. ###
08.01.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) and Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, today announced that with the President’s signature, legislation to name the Collegeville Post Office after Minnesota’s own Senator Eugene McCarthy has been signed into law. Prior to his 22 years in public office, Eugene McCarthy attended and taught at St. John’s University in Collegeville, MN. The renaming of this post office in his honor accompanies the university’s previous recognition of McCarthy through their Eugene J. McCarthy Center which aims to promote dialogue, civic education, and political engagement in youth following in his footsteps. “Eugene McCarthy was a strong, independent voice who knew how to bring people together and better Minnesota,” said Emmer “Throughout the decades he served as a legislator, McCarthy helped foster the level of civic engagement for which our state is known. It is fitting that my first bill to become law honors a dedicated public servant and extraordinary Minnesotan, and there is no more suitable place to honor his life and legacy than St. John’s University.” “Eugene McCarthy was a distinguished public servant that served Minnesota and our country for many years,” said Klobuchar. “This bipartisan effort will honor Senator McCarthy for this devotion to the people of our state and ensure that the St. John’s post office stands as a tribute for all he did to make our nation a better place.” “Eugene McCarthy worked tirelessly to improve the lives of both Minnesotans and all Americans,” said Sen. Franken. “It’s great that we were able to come together and pass this bipartisan measure to ensure that Senator McCarthy’s name and legacy will be honored for generations to come.” Congressman Emmer introduced this bill in the House, Senators Klobuchar and Franken ensured the legislation’s passage in the Senate. ###
07.25.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representative Tom Emmer, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded Buffalo Municipal Airport a grant of $180,000 for infrastructure improvements. “Our 21st-century economy demands a 21st-century transportation network,” Klobuchar said. “This grant will provide critical support and help to the Buffalo Municipal Airport to make necessary infrastructure upgrades to improve safety and continue providing Minnesotans with reliable air service.” “The Buffalo Municipal Airport is important to businesses in the region, and it supports good jobs,” Franken said. “This grant will allow the airport to make smart investments that will keep the facility operating in an efficient and safe manner.” “Investing in our infrastructure is crucial for Minnesota's future success," Emmer said. "I'm pleased Buffalo is receiving this grant for improvements so they can continue their quality service in the West Metro." This grant will allow the airport to rehabilitate its access road and parking lot. ###
07.21.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Following efforts from the Minnesota congressional delegation, the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) today announced it will grant nonstop service between Tokyo’s Haneda Airport and Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport (MSP). In May, the Minnesota lawmakers sent a bipartisan letter to Secretary Foxx highlighting the importance of access to the growing Asian markets for Minnesota businesses and travelers, including the 17 Fortune 500 companies headquartered in Minnesota, and urged DOT to consider Delta Air Lines’ application for service between Tokyo’s Haneda Airport and MSP. “As chair of the Senate Travel and Tourism Caucus, I know how important travel and tourism are to the economy of Minnesota,” said Senator Amy Klobuchar. “Access to the growing Asian markets are particularly important to Minnesota businesses, and why I led efforts with my Minnesota colleagues to ensure that our state continues to have direct access to Asia. Today’s announcement that MSP and Tokyo’s more convenient Haneda Airport will be connected by nonstop flights is great news for Minnesota’s economy and those traveling to and from our state.” “Businesses in Minnesota rely on MSP to bring jobs to our state and strengthen our local economy,” said Senator Al Franken. “And families rely on MSP to visit unique places all around the world. We fought hard to open Haneda Airport to nonstop service between Tokyo and Minnesota because it will help promote economic growth and expand tourism opportunities. This is a good day for our state.” “This announcement creates a direct link between Minnesota and Tokyo,” said Representative Collin Peterson. “This new service will better connect Minnesota businesses with those in Tokyo and provide new opportunities for growth in Minnesota.” “I am very pleased that Secretary Foxx has agreed with the Minnesota delegation and granted nonstop service between MSP and Tokyo’s Haneda Airport,” said Representative Betty McCollum. “This essential airline service will help forge even stronger connections between Minnesota and Japan, particularly Minnesota businesses that are working to succeed in Asian markets. Overall, this is great news for our Twin Cities region.” “I am pleased the Department of Transportation has announced it will grant Delta Air Lines’ application for nonstop flights between MSP and Tokyo’s Haneda Airport,” said Representative Tim Walz. “Increasing access to developing markets is critical for the continued growth of Minnesota’s businesses. This is certainly a win for our state’s economy and those traveling between the two locations.” “This is tremendous news for MSP and our Minnesota businesses,” said Representative Rick Nolan. “During my discussion with Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx regarding this matter, I emphasized the importance of this decision. Nonstop service between Haneda Airport and MSP will allow Minnesota business travelers to efficiently conduct business across the globe.” “Minnesota businesses are some of the most enterprising and innovative in the world, and the new direct service to Tokyo’s Haneda Airport will present more opportunities for them to thrive,” said Representative Erik Paulsen. “I’m very proud to see this bipartisan effort yield such a positive result for Minnesota businesses and jobs.” “Trade and travel are critical to Minnesota’s economy and securing daytime slots from MSP to Haneda ensures that Minnesota businesses will remain at the forefront of the global economy,” said Representative Tom Emmer. “I’m proud to have worked so closely with the entire delegation advocating for our Minnesota companies and workers.” The full text of the letter the lawmakers sent in May is below: Dear Secretary Foxx: We write to urge full and fair consideration of Delta Air Lines’ application for a daytime slot pair allowing for service between Haneda Airport and Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport (MSP). Earlier this year, we wrote to express our concern that a limited opening of Haneda Airport could make the current route between MSP and Narita International Airport economically unsustainable. We noted that the MSP to Narita route is the only direct flight between Minnesota and Asia. Given the new bilateral aviation agreement with Japan, allowing service between MSP and Haneda is now imperative to maintaining Minnesota’s connection to Asia. Access to growing Asian markets is particularly important to Minnesota businesses, including the 17 Fortune 500 companies headquartered in our state. In 2015 employees from just 25 businesses in Minnesota took more than 10,000 flights from Minneapolis/St. Paul to Tokyo. Minnesota competes to attract businesses by creating a positive business climate based on good governance, a strong workforce and world-class infrastructure. Losing the only nonstop flight connection to Asia would damage Minnesota’s competitiveness. Delta’s proposal to use MSP as a hub to connect 114 U.S. cities to Haneda will have benefits in Minnesota and beyond. Many Midwestern communities will also benefit from shorter flight times compared to alternative hubs. In addition, the connecting traffic will strengthen MSP as an international hub and leverage the existing transportation infrastructure and vibrant aviation sector in the Twin Cities. Ensuring Minnesota receives a new daytime slot pair is also essential for maintaining a competitive balance in the transpacific market. Currently, robust competition among three global alliances facilitates consumer choice and puts downward pressure on airfares. The limited opening of Haneda Airport has the potential to upset this balance as American Airlines and United Airlines currently control 79 percent of the global Haneda Airport market in conjunction with their Japanese partner airlines. Thank you for your attention to our views. We look forward to working with you on this important issue.
07.18.2016	Washington D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) today announced that he will be participating in the 2016 Congressional App Challenge. “Today marks the first day of the Congressional App Challenge, and I’m ecstatic that my office will be participating for the second year in a row,” said Emmer. “The Congressional App Challenge is a competition created by Congress that encourages high school students from all over the nation to develop their own software application, otherwise known as an app.” “This competition is an exceptional way for students to develop crucial Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) skills—all while having fun with their friends,” said Emmer. “I am looking forward to seeing what the students of Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District come up with.” To learn more about the rules and requirements of the Congressional App Challenge, click here.
07.18.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Following an effort from U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, and Representative Tom Emmer, legislation to rename the post office at St. John’s University in memory of Senator Eugene McCarthy passed the Senate. McCarthy, who passed away in 2005, represented Minnesota in the United States of House of Representatives and the United States Senate for 22 years. St. John’s, where McCarthy attended and taught, is also home to the McCarthy Center for Public Policy and Civic Engagement. “Eugene McCarthy was a distinguished public servant that served Minnesota and our country for many years,” said Klobuchar. “This effort will honor Senator McCarthy for this devotion to the people of our state and ensure that the St. John’s post office stands as a tribute for all he did to make our nation a better place.” “A true Minnesota statesman, Eugene McCarthy worked hard for decades to improve the lives of families in our state and all across the country,” said Franken. “I was proud to support this legislation to make sure that Senator McCarthy’s name and legacy will be honored.” “Eugene McCarthy’s lifelong service and civic engagement is legendary and he was a seminal figure in both state and national politics in the latter half of the 20th century,” said Emmer. “In the year which would have been his 100th birthday, I am proud to have introduced this bill to commemorate all that Senator McCarthy has done for St. John’s University, the state of Minnesota and our country.” Representative Tom Emmer introduced this legislation in the House, which was supported by Klobuchar and Franken in the Senate.
07.07.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced today that he will be holding two town halls during the month of August. The first event for the month will be held in Washington County and the second will be held in Benton County. Last year, Congressman Emmer held a town hall in every county within his district in order to remain accountable, transparent and accessible – and this year will be no different. “My role as a Representative is to listen to and serve the fine people of Minnesota’s Sixth District, so it is imperative that I hear their questions and concerns directly,” said Emmer. “That is why I place such a high importance on town halls – there is no better way to hear from the people. I am very much looking forward to these next few town halls and hope to see many of you there.” Washington County Town HallDate: Thursday, August 4, 2016 Time: 6:30 PMLocation: Hugo City Hall | Council Chambers | 14669 Fitzgerald Ave N, Hugo, MN 55038 Benton County Town HallDate: Thursday, August 11, 2016 Time: 6:30 PM Location: Foley City Hall | Council Chambers | 251 4th Ave N, Foley, MN 56329
06.20.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced today that he will host his second town hall of the year in Andover, Minnesota on June 30th. “Last year when I first took office, my staff and I promised to be transparent, accountable, and most importantly—accessible,” said Emmer. “I believe that we kept that promise as we held a town hall in every county in the Sixth District during my first year. In fact, we held 14 total town halls in 2015. This year will be no different, as I once again promise to hold at least one town hall in every county so that Minnesotans across the Sixth District have the opportunity to ask me questions and share what issues matter to them the most.” WHEN: Thursday, June 30th at 6:30 PM WHERE: Anoka County | Andover City Hall – Council Chambers | 1685 Crosstown Boulevard NW | Andover, MN 55304 For more information, contact Congressman Emmer’s Otsego office at (763)-241-6848.
05.26.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced today that he will host his first town hall of the year in Big Lake on June 17th. “Last year when I first took office, my staff and I promised to be transparent, accountable, and most importantly—accessible,” said Emmer. “I believe that we kept that promise as we held a town hall in every county in the Sixth District during my first year. In fact, we held 14 total town halls. This year will be no different, as I once again promise to hold at least one town hall in every county so that Minnesotans across the Sixth District have the opportunity to ask me questions and share what issues matter to them the most.” WHEN: Friday, June 17th at 8:00AM WHERE: Sherburne County Big Lake Police Station – Community Room 790 Minnesota Ave E Big Lake, MN 55309 For more information, contact Congerssman Emmer’s Otsego office at (763)-241-6848.
05.24.2016	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Emmer’s second piece of legislation passed off the House Floor. unanimously. This bill would designate the Post Office at St. John’s University in Collegeville, Minnesota as the “Eugene J. McCarthy Post Office.” “Senator Eugene McCarthy is a man who is remembered for shaking up the DC establishment and being a driving force behind the level of civic engagement Minnesotans have today,” said Emmer. “In the year which would have been his 100th birthday, I am proud to have the full Minnesota delegation’s support for dedicating the post office at St. John’s University - the college where McCarthy grew up, studied, and taught - after this great public servant.” Eugene McCarthy attended and taught at St. John’s University. He was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1948, became a Senator in 1959 and launched a bid for President in 1968. In 1998, a former U.S. Post Office in downtown St. Paul was named after the late Senator McCarthy until its recent sale. In his honor, St. John’s University established the Eugene J. McCarthy Center, which aims to promote dialogue, civic education, and political engagement in youth following in his footsteps.This legislation is H.R.4425. Click here to read the full text. Congressman Emmer represents Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District which includes Collegeville, MN.
05.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Emmer introduced the CFPB Dual Mandate and Economic Analysis Act. The CFPB (Consumer Financial Protection Bureau) - a creation of the controversial Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act - has been the center of a great deal of criticism for imprudently wielding its power to regulate many industries that had absolutely nothing to the 2008 economic crash. From auto lenders, to credit unions and community banks, the CFPB has placed burden after burden on the financial services industry, which has hurt the very people they are obligated to protect – American consumers. The CFPB Dual Mandate and Economic Analysis Act (H.R. 5211) amends the mission of the CFPB to direct their attention to competition and consumer choice while continuing to focus on fairness and transparency. This enhancement ensures that consumers will have access to a diverse array of financial services providers and products that are more responsive to the individual needs of all Americans. The legislation would also establish an Office of Economic Analysis (OEA) at the CFPB to review and assess proposed guidances, orders, rules and regulations. In particular, the OEA would analyze how the aforementioned actions at the CFPB would affect consumer choice, price and access to financial products. These findings would then be published in the Federal Register enabling the public to comment on the merits or faults of the proposed action. If the director disagrees with the findings, he/she must submit a notice of disagreement that accompanies the promulgation of any CFPB action. Additionally, the OEA would also be required to review each action by the CFPB after 1, 2, 5, and 10 years of implementation so that the American people, Congress and the CFPB can evaluate effectiveness. “It is time that we reform our government to help American consumers. By requiring the CFPB to focus more on competition and consumer choice, Minnesotans win,” Emmer said. “Ensuring that consumers and businesses can weigh in on actions by the CFPB before they are implemented increases the transparency and accountability of our federal government which the American people deserve. Finally, once the CFPB implements a rule it only makes sense that our government studies its effectiveness so that it can be reformed or removed if it does harm.”Congressman Tom Emmer represents Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District and is a member of the Financial Services Committee. CFPB Dual Mandate and Economic Analysis Act is H.R. 5211. Click here to read the full text.
05.12.2016	
04.20.2016	Otsego, MN – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced today that his office will be hosting a Service Academy Night for individuals interested in applying for a nomination to one of the service academies. “Each year I have the distinct honor of assisting individuals wishing to attend one of our nation’s service academies with the nomination process,” said Emmer. “I have an enormous amount of respect for those who wish to serve their country and I am looking forward to helping these individuals fulfill their goals in any way that I can.” Those who attend will learn about the application process as well as the Congressional nomination process. Representatives from the United States Military Academy at West Point, the United States Air Force Academy, and the United States Naval Academy will be available to answer any questions. When: Tuesday, May 17, 2016, 6:00-8:00 PM Where: Monticello Community Center - the Bridge Room 505 Walnut Street, Monticello, MN 55362 For more information, contact Abby Rime in our Otsego office at (763) 241-6848 or at Abby.Rime@mail.house.gov. ###
04.20.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) introduced the Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act which will help American families by providing regulatory relief for roughly 3,400 small banks and credit unions. Since the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act was enacted, numerous mandates have been forced on community financial institutions despite the fact they had nothing to do with causing the 2008 crisis. One of the latest harmful mandates is the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) revised Regulation C final rule. This rule amends the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA) by requiring small banks and credit unions to collect 48 unique data points on loan applications and then share that information with the federal government. “This burden - which is twice as much as what is already required under HMDA - requires small community banks and credit unions to allocate more of their limited resources to deal with Washington’s red tape, rather than providing loans to families and businesses in Minnesota,” said Emmer. “These unnecessary regulatory hurdles will make consumer credit - like mortgages, car and small business loans - more expensive thus harming those with modest means the most.” The Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act exempts small banks and credit unions from Regulation C if they meet the following criteria: Lenders that have originated 100 or fewer closed-end mortgages (typical mortgage for purchase of a home) in each of the two preceding calendar years will be exempt from reporting on such loans. Lenders that have originated 200 or fewer open-end lines of credit (such as a typical home equity loan) in each of the two preceding calendar years will be exempt from reporting on such loans. This legislation will provide relief for small lenders without material impacting the mortgage data available to the CFPB or the goals of HMDA. Additionally, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act has garnered the support of: Independent Community Bankers of America, American Bankers Association, National Association of Federal Credit Unions and Credit Union National Association. Congressman Tom Emmer represents Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District and is a member of the Financial Services Committee. The Home Mortgage Disclosure Adjustment Act is H.R. 4997. Click here to read the full text. ###
04.19.2016	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) yesterday introduced H.R. 4980, the Firearm Due Process Protection Act. This legislation would ensure that Americans are able to correct false information that causes the federal government to deny their Constitutional right to own a firearm. The National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) provides for an appeal process if an individual is denied a firearm due to inaccurate information. However, on January 20th, it was reported that the NICS Section, the office in charge of background checks, had halted the appeals process altogether. The primary reasons for successful appeals are mismatched fingerprints and inaccurate criminal history records, and currently the amount of erroneous denials is not public information. This legislation protects the Constitutional liberties of Americans by requiring that a determination be made on every appeal within 60 days. Americans would be given the right to seek a court judgment to correct invalid information if the FBI does not act on an appeal within the deadline. Additionally, it increases congressional oversight by requiring statistics regarding the total number and nature of appeals be reported to Congress. “This President’s executive actions on guns should not deprive law-abiding Americans of their Constitutional right to due process,” said Emmer. “Citizens who go through the appropriate, legal process of ensuring their own personal protection should not face unnecessary government blockades. Two months is a reasonable amount of time to run a background check and correct false information. Above all, citizens must always have recourse when denied a fundamental right." Since taking office, Congressman Tom Emmer has cosponsored several pieces of legislation to protect American's Constitutional right to bear arms. The Firearm Due Process Protection Act is H.R. 4980. Click here to read the full text. ###
04.14.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer’s (MN-06) legislation the Financial Stability Oversight Council Reform Act was his first to pass out of the House of Representatives today with a bipartisan vote of 239-179. The Financial Stability Oversight Council, H.R. 3340, was introduced in July and passed out of the Financial Services Committee in November of last year. In 2010, under Dodd-Frank, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) and the Office of Financial Research (OFR) were created. FSOC has the power to designate nonbank financial institutions as “systemically important” which results in greater regulatory burdens on those financial institutions; OFR conducts research on behalf of FSOC. Without this legislation FSOC’s designation process lacks transparency and OFR’s authority to demand information from businesses goes unchecked. “I am a firm believer in a transparent and accountable government, and if a federal institution is failing to meet these fundamental criteria, Congress needs to fix it,” said Emmer. “Unfortunately, FSOC and OFR currently operate in the shadows, outside of the usual congressional oversight and the democratic process. I cannot stand by while businesses that had nothing to do with the 2008 financial crisis are being unjustly burdened with new regulations that result in Americans paying higher prices for essential financial products like home mortgages, as well as education, auto and business loans.” “Over the years, Congress has given much of its authority to unelected bureaucrats but this legislation returns the Constitutional ‘power of the purse’ back to Congress,” said Emmer. “Not only will this legislation reduce mandatory spending by $1.3 billion over the next ten years, but it will make FSOC and OFR transparent and accountable to the American people. Subjecting these entities to the congressional appropriations process, enhancing OFR quarterly reporting requirements and allowing Americans to weigh in on OFR rules and regulations gives Congress the tools it needs to provide the proper oversight of FSOC and OFR.” Congressman Tom Emmer represents Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District and is a member of the Financial Services Committee. The Financial Stability Oversight Council Reform Act is H.R. 3340. Click here to read the full text.
03.31.2016	Otsego, MN – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) today announced the launch of the first ever Young Women Leadership Program for Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District which will begin during the summer of 2016. This program will allow high school girls to learn firsthand about different career options from professional women who have built successful careers and hold or have held leadership roles in government, business, media, and other fields. Participants of this program will be able to take part in open roundtable discussions with their peers and women professionals, all while hearing stories, receiving guidance, and gaining valuable insights. “I am incredibly excited about this upcoming program and am proud to introduce it during the month of March, which happens to be Women’s History Month,” said Emmer. “The Young Women Leadership Program is a perfect way to not only recognize the contributions and accomplishments that have been made by women leaders across Minnesota, but also a way to foster the growth of the women leaders of tomorrow. Minnesota is home to so many accomplished professional women and I want to ensure that a younger generation of women has the opportunity to learn and grow from their experiences.” Further details on this program, including how to apply can be found on Congressman Emmer’s website. ###
03.23.2016	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) today introduced the Micro Offering Safe Harbor Act which will help small businesses raise capital. This legislation makes a simple technical amendment to the Securities Act of 1933 by defining exactly what qualifies under the “non-public offering” exemption. This would allow small businesses to operate with confidence that they are not in violation of the law when doing a non-public securities offering if one or more of the following requirements are met: Each investor has a substantive pre-existing relationship with an owner, There are 35 or fewer purchasers, or The amount does not exceed $500,000 “Entrepreneurs will be able to more easily launch their startups and existing businesses will have better prospects for growth,” said Emmer. “By simply clarifying an old law, more small businesses will raise capital through non-public offerings, easing the burdens of red-tape, onerous paperwork, and the threat of lawsuits. Congress has much more work to do to fully unleash the American economic engine and this legislation is one of many steps I will take to help Minnesotans achieve the American Dream. With labor force participation at an all time low and many families still having less income than they had before the 2008 economic collapse, it is my duty to do everything I can to get America's economy firing on all cylinders.” Several small business advocacy organizations have endorsed the Micro Offering Safe Harbor Act including the National Small Business Association and the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Council (SBEC). The SBEC stated, “The legislation would appropriately scale federal rules and regulatory compliance for small businesses, thus providing another practical option for entrepreneurs to raise the capital they need to startup or grow their firms.” Coupled with Emmer’s CREATE Jobs Act which would make the income tax rate for many American businesses lower than their competition in other countries, the Micro Offering Safe Harbor Act is yet another sign that prospects for normal economic growth are here. The Micro Offering Safe Harbor is H.R. 4850. Click here to read the full text. Read what the Crowdfund Insider says about the bill. Click here. Emmer serves as a Member of the House Financial Services Committee ###
03.15.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar and Representative Tom Emmer announced today that they will join President Obama on his historic visit to Cuba on March 21st and 22nd. President Obama will be the first sitting president to visit Cuba since Calvin Coolidge in 1928. Klobuchar is the lead Senate sponsor on bipartisan legislation to lift the U.S. trade embargo with Cuba. Emmer is leading the effort in the House. “Congressman Emmer and I are working on a bipartisan effort to lift the trade embargo with Cuba so that we can boost exports and create jobs in the United States. In Minnesota, exports to Cuba could double if the embargo were lifted,” said Klobuchar. “After more than 50 years of failed policy, it is time to change course with Cuba. Our historic visit later this month is a major step forward. The next step is for Congress to pass our bipartisan legislation to lift the trade embargo so that more U.S. goods can be exported to Cuba.” “Expanding our markets, strengthening our national security, and improving relationships with our next door neighbor should be a nonpartisan issue,” said Emmer. “Minnesota is the third largest agricultural exporter in the country, and we have a great potential to benefit from millions of new consumers right here in our own backyard. While there is certainly further work that needs to be done to address human rights issues it is not a matter of if the embargo is lifted, but a matter of when and this bipartisan trip is certainly a step in the right direction.” Klobuchar is leading the bipartisan Freedom to Export to Cuba Act—which currently has 23 Senate cosponsors. The bill lifts the current embargo and allows more U.S. goods to be exported to Cuba. The bill would eliminate the legal barriers to Americans doing business in Cuba, boosting job creation and exports. It does not repeal provisions of current law that address human rights in Cuba or that allow individuals and businesses to pursue claims against the Cuban government. Last week, Klobuchar called on the Departments of Treasury and Commerce to allow American hotels to operate in Cuba. Emmer is leading the Cuba Trade Act of 2015. This legislation would lift the trade embargo between the United States and Cuba that has been in effect since 1960. This bill would allow for American companies to freely trade with Cuba without any taxpayer risk or exposure. Emmer is also a co-chair of the Cuba Working Group in the U.S. House. ###
03.11.2016	Otsego, MN – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) today announced the launch of his mobile office hours. Staff will be travelling throughout Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District every week to meet with constituents and help with any issues they may be having. “I am a firm believer that the main role of a Member of Congress is constituent service,” said Emmer. “Since I took office this is something I have worked hard to implement. Through these mobile office hours, our goal is to make ourselves more available so we come to you instead of you coming to us.” “If you are having trouble navigating an issue with a federal agency, we are here to help you,” said Emmer. “Whether you are unable to get an answer in a timely manner or feel like you have been treated unfairly, my office’s caseworkers may be able to resolve the problem or get you the information you need." Details of scheduled mobile office hours will be shared at emmer.house.gov. Upcoming dates include: Date: Tuesday, March 22ndTime: 9am-3pmLocation: East Bethel City Hall - Booster East Conference Room 2241 221st Ave NE Cedar, MN 55011 Date: Thursday, March 24thTime: 9am-3pmLocation: Mayer City Office - City Council Meeting Room 413 Bluejay Ave N Mayer, MN 55360 ###
02.11.2016	Washington, D. C. – Yesterday, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) introduced the Corporate Rate Equality and Trade Empowerment (CREATE) Jobs Act to make the United States corporate income tax rates internationally competitive. At 39 percent, the United States has the highest corporate income tax rate in the developed world. Conversely, our international competitors based in countries like China, Canada, Ireland, and the United Kingdom benefit from lower corporate rates. “The United States is great at a lot of things, but having a competitive tax rate for Minnesotan businesses to thrive is not one of them,” said Emmer. “For years, we have been putting ourselves at a competitive disadvantage – sending jobs, people and tax dollars overseas to countries that have far more business friendly rates. In fact, at least 22 American corporations have already moved overseas since 2012 – two of them being from Minnesota.” “We can no longer attempt to tax our way into prosperity while forcing the American people to foot the bill” said Emmer. “Instead, we must implement legislation like the CREATE Jobs Act which will help – not hinder – our country’s future by encouraging the creation of more American jobs, increasing our GDP and raising wages for American workers.” This legislation will ensure the United States remains competitive with foreign corporations by setting our tax rate five percentage points lower than the average Organization for Economic Co-operation & Development (OECD) countries. The OECD is a group of 34 free market western and western-friendly countries who often trade with one another; in effect, these are American’s economic competitors, which is why using their tax rates is a great metric for setting tax rates for the United States. Currently, the average OECD rate is 25 percent, which means under the CREATE Jobs Act the United States corporate income tax rate would be reduced to about 20 percent. According to the Tax Foundation, reducing the corporate tax rate to 20 percent would create more than 600,000 jobs, increase the GDP by 3.3 percent and raise wages by 2.8 percent over the long-term. The Corporate Rate Equality and Trade Empowerment (CREATE) Jobs Act is H.R. 4518. Click here to read the full text.
02.03.2016	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Tom Emmer introduced H.R. 4425 to commemorate the late Minnesota Congressman Eugene McCarthy by designating the post office at St. John’s University - where he attended and taught – in his honor. St. John’s University is home to the McCarthy Center for Public Policy & Civic Engagement which aims to promote dialogue, civic education, and political engagement in youth following in Eugene McCarthy’s footsteps. This legislation had the support of all Minnesota’s Members of Congress. “Eugene McCarthy was an incredible servant to Minnesota and our country as a whole,” said Emmer. “He shook the foundations of the political establishment at a national level; served in the War Department under Military Intelligence during World War II; authored more than 20 books on public policy, political theory and economics; and served five terms in the U.S. House and two terms in the Senate. 2016 marks what would have been McCarthy’s 100th birthday, and we hope to commemorate his work in Washington and back in Minnesota through this designation.” “I am pleased to endorse this idea in recognition of one of Saint John’s most esteemed alumni,” said St. John’s University President Michael Hemesath. “Eugene McCarthy’s lifelong service and civic engagement is legendary and he was a seminal figure in both state and national politics in the latter half of the 20th century. The naming of the Collegeville post office is an appropriate commemoration of all that he has done for the university, the state and country.” ###
01.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement after President Obama’s final State of the Union address: “Much like the President tonight, I too am optimistic about the future of this country. But we have a lot of work to do. I am the father of seven wonderful children and they are the reason I am in office. So that their future - and the future of all children in this great country - is better than it was yesterday. This is exactly why my guest tonight was Dr. Daniel Bittman, Minnesota’s 2016 Superintendent of the Year. He is working for the generation of tomorrow in Central Minnesota, and we need to be working for that generation of tomorrow in Congress as well. Tonight, after looking past the flowery rhetoric, there are a few things the President mentioned of which I absolutely agree. We must cut through the red tape and reduce the regulations hindering the daily lives of hardworking Americans. We must overturn the past 50 years of failed policy and lift the embargo with Cuba. And lastly, while we certainly differ on our opinions regarding the failed foreign policy in the Middle East, I believe that to truly win the war against the Islamic State we need to go above and beyond the authorization for use of military force and Declare War against the Islamic State. I am confident that we can finish the 114th Congress strong and I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to return our country to the bright, shining beacon on the hill.” ###
01.05.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the below statement following President Obama’s announcement of executive actions on gun control: “Today, the President failed to adequately address our country’s glaring mental health problem and prevent acts of terror in our homeland. Instead, the President’s unilateral actions today diminish the rights of law-abiding Americans, all while circumventing the legislative process. In the U.S. Constitution - which the President simply refers to as “paper” – our Founding Fathers made it clear that “…the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed.” Yet today, President Obama showed a blatant disregard for this constitutional right. While laying out his radical gun control ideology, the President himself admitted these steps would not have prevented any of the recent mass shootings. I am a strong and absolute supporter of our nation’s Second Amendment – and always will be.” ###
12.23.2015	Washington, D.C. – On Monday, the Minnesota Congressional Delegation called upon U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald to visit the St. Cloud VA Health Care System (St. Cloud VA) as soon as possible to reassure the employees and the thousands of veterans they serve of the VA’s commitment to providing a healthy and productive workplace to ensure delivery of the highest quality medical care. The bi-partisan group of lawmakers wrote to the VA Secretary after media reports revealed multiple complaints about the St. Cloud VA work environment. The letter was signed by Sen. Amy Klobuchar, Sen. Al Franken, Rep. Tom Emmer, Rep. Tim Walz, Rep. Rick Nolan, Rep. Collin Peterson, Rep. Keith Ellison, Rep. Betty McCollum, Rep. Erik Paulsen, and Rep. John Kline. “We are writing to bring your personal attention to recent media reports about the St. Cloud VA Health Care System,” the lawmakers wrote. “Several local media outlets have reported concerns about patient access and care, workplace culture, facility operations and construction contracting.” On October 2, Reps. Tom Emmer (R-MN) and Tim Walz (D-MN), who sits on the House Veterans Affairs Oversight and Investigation Sub-committee, visited the St Cloud VA to conduct oversight following the recent release of a 2014 report to the Office of the Inspector General conducted by the VA Midwest Health Network (VISN-23). The 2014 VISN 23 report substantiated five of the six allegations regarding St. Cloud VA facilities, services, staffing and managerial practices. After Reps. Emmer and Walz heard concerns about ongoing strained relationships, lack of trust, and unresolved grievances, the pair suggested to both management and labor to voluntarily and jointly request assistance and support from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. “We’re encouraged that management and labor at the facility recently agreed to voluntarily work together with facilitation and training conducted by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to strengthen workplace relationships,” the lawmakers wrote. The full text of the letter is below: Letter to Secretary Robert A. McDonald ###
12.18.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the below statement following today’s vote on the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016, also known as the Omnibus Bill: “One thing I’ve learned throughout my time in Congress – and as a married man – is that you do not typically get everything you want. Today, we voted on a piece of legislation where both sides of the aisle won some and lost some. “Like many of my colleagues, there are many items I wished would have been included, however, I believe it is more important to acknowledge some of the positive and crucial items that were included in the Omnibus Bill. This legislation repeals the out of date oil export ban, strengthens the Visa Waiver Program, makes the United States trade agreement compliant by repealing COOL and invests in our nation’s transportation infrastructure. This bill addresses our country’s out of control Washington bureaucracy by reining in the IRS and cutting funding for the EPA’s overreaches. Today’s bill also prohibits taxpayer funding for abortions as well as any new funding for Obamacare. Lastly, we provide for our heroes by honoring our commitments to our veterans, adequately funding our military, and providing necessary health care benefits to 9/11 first responders. While it is clear I see many benefits to today’s Omnibus Bill, the fact is that I had concerns that I simply could not push aside. Our nation faces an enormous and growing $18 trillion debt that our children and grandchildren will be burdened with, unless we begin to act. I have great issues with new spending without plans to slow debt increases. I am hopeful that yesterday’s tax extender package along with the pro-growth policies in today’s bill, will lead to a stronger economic recovery that will benefit all Americans.”
12.17.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) today voted in favor of the Tax Extender Package which passed with a vote of 318-109. “The American people know that we cannot tax and spend our way into prosperity,” said Emmer. “Minnesotans know how to spend their money better than Washington bureaucrats. Today, passage of this legislation allows for $622 billion in tax relief over the next 10 years, which allows families, businesses and taxpayers to keep more of their hard-earned money.” “The package allows for a 2-year suspension of the medical device tax - which is crucial to Minnesota - and the so-called Cadillac Tax,” said Emmer. "This package also makes the research and development credit permanent, extends the bonus depreciation credit, and enhances Section 179 for small businesses. This package is a huge win for Minnesota, and what is good for Minnesota is good for the Country. Congress has a duty to enact pro-growth policies that help working families and encourage, not stifle, development and innovation throughout our nation, and today we took a big step towards doing just that.”
12.16.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) today joined nine* of his colleagues in announcing the launch of a bipartisan Cuba Working Group along with its steering committee. “An overwhelming majority of the American people supports a change in our policy towards Cuba and the creation of the Cuba Working Group highlights that consensus,” said Emmer. “Since last year, a massive and sweeping change has occurred in our policy towards Cuba, which has benefits for farmers, manufacturers, and most importantly the Cuban and American people. I’m proud to join with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to advance policies that will improve human rights, create opportunities for American exports, and improve our national security and foreign policy.” In a letter to Speaker Paul Ryan and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi announcing the group’s formation, the steering committee members said: Increasingly, the American people are indicating their desire for a new, more pragmatic approach to Cuba. More people are traveling from the U.S. to Cuba, more businesses are looking for opportunity on the island, and more sectors are eager for trade. The bi-partisan Cuba Working Group will promote a U.S.-Cuba policy that reflects the interests of the American people in engagement with Cuba. The letter concludes, “Our goal is to raise the level of understanding inside of Congress for the need to build a new policy framework for U.S.-Cuban relations.” The bipartisan Cuba Working Group Steering Committee Members are: Kathy Castor (D-FL), Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Rick Crawford (R-AR), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Rodney Davis* (R-IL), Tom Emmer (R-MN), Sam Farr (D-CA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Betty McCollum* (D-MN), Jim McGovern (D-MA), Ted Poe (R-TX), Reid Ribble (R-WI), Mark Sanford* (R-SC), Nydia Velazquez* (D-NY). Letter to Speaker Ryan and Democratic Leader Pelosi can be found here: Cuba Working Group. Emmer is the sponsor of H.R. 3238 - the Cuba Trade Act of 2015. For more information, visit emmer.house.gov/cuba. *Additional Members were added to the Cuba Working Group Steering Committee after Congressman Emmer's Press Release was sent.
11.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced today that he will be hosting his second Twitter town hall on Monday, December 7 at 2:00 PM Central Time. To ask a question, post on his Facebook page, tweet to @RepTomEmmer with the hashtag #AskTom, or submit a question on his website, and he will answer the questions live on his YouTube channel. “I really enjoy hearing from the wonderful people of Minnesota’s Sixth District and I think it is incredibly important that everyone in the district has the opportunity to voice their concerns and opinions,” said Emmer. “Twitter town halls are a different and often more convenient way for constituents to ask me questions about the issues that are most important to them. I am looking forward to hearing from everyone.” This is Emmer’s second Twitter town hall. Additionally, Emmer has held twelve town halls including Twitter town halls, tele-town halls and at least one in-person town hall in every county he represents. For more information, visit: Emmer.house.gov/AskTom ###
11.19.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer yesterday introduced H.J.Res 73, a joint resolution declaring a state of war against the Islamic State. “The Islamic State has declared war against America and now we have an obligation to act,” said Emmer. “The wolf of tyranny is at our doorstep and now is the time to euthanize this evil before it enters America’s home. Congress must exercise its constitutional authority through this Declaration of War and give the President the power to utilize all facets of our military and diplomatic strength to successfully defeat our enemies. It is time that we speak with one voice and unite as a country against the Islamic State.” Article 1, Section 8, Clause 11 of the United States Constitution grants Congress the authority to declare war. Congress has exercised this constitutional authority on five different occasions: the War of 1812, the Mexican-American War in 1846, the Spanish-American War in 1898, declarations against Germany and Austria-Hungary for World War I in 1917, and declarations against Nazi Germany, her allies, and Imperial Japan for World War II in 1941 and 1942. Click here to read the full text of H.J. Res 73. ###
11.04.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Financial Stability Oversight Council Reform Act, authored by Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06), passed out of the House Financial Services Committee. Congressman Emmer has served on the committee for less than six months after filling a vacancy earlier this year. “Today was a win for American consumers,” Emmer said. “Now that we have moved this legislation through the Financial Services Committee, we are one step closer to returning the power of the purse back to Congress where it belongs.” “If made law, the Financial Stability Oversight Council and the Office of Financial Research will no longer be able to determine their own budgets, instead the American people will have a say through their elected representatives and the congressional appropriations process,” said Emmer. “I believe in government transparency and the constitutional role of checks and balances, and this bill helps restore these critical principles.” The Financial Services Oversight Council (FSOC), which was created in 2010 under Dodd-Frank, has the power to designate financial institutions as “systemically important” resulting in greater regulatory burdens. Thus far, this process has lacked transparency and has failed to provide a path forward for these institutions to reform their business model in order to prevent the next economic crisis. The Office of Financial Research (OFR) conducts research on the behalf of FSOC and has unchecked authority to demand information from businesses about their affairs. Congressman Emmer’s legislation not only subjects FSOC and OFR to the congressional appropriation process, but it also enhances transparency by requiring quarterly reports from OFR about their spending and activities. Lastly, under this bill, OFR has to provide a public notice and comment period of at least 90 days before issuing certain reports, rules, or regulations. This increased oversight and transparency ensures safe and competitive financial markets, enabling Americans’ access to a diverse selection of financial products that fit their specific needs. The Financial Stability Oversight Council Reform Act is H.R. 3340. Click here to read the full text.Congressman Tom Emmer represents Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District and is a member of the House Financial Services Committee. ###
10.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced today that he will host his next town hall in Wright County on November 9th, 2015. “Town halls are one of my favorite parts of this job because they are the perfect opportunity for Minnesotans to ask me questions or for me to hear their concerns on issues that matter to them most,” said Emmer. “I was elected by the people of Minnesota’s Sixth District so I owe it to them to remain both accountable and accessible, and town halls are a perfect way to do so.” “Back in January, I promised to hold an in-person town hall in every county throughout Minnesota’s Sixth District,” said Emmer. “November’s town hall in Wright County will mark my 13th town hall total and my 7th and final county in the Sixth Congressional District. I am really looking forward to this event, and hope to see Minnesotans from my home county and from across the district.” When: November 9th, 2015 at 7:00P.M. Where: Huikko's Bowling & Entertainment Center 1207 MN-25 Buffalo, MN 55313 ###
10.09.2015	Washington, D.C. – Following the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals to stay President Obama’s Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement: “Through the EPA’s final Waters of the U.S. rule we witnessed yet another bureaucratic overreach by the Obama Administration. Thankfully, today’s Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals’ decision to halt the rule is a victory for farmers, ranchers and land owners across the country. Like all Minnesotans, I believe that we need to be good stewards of our land and waterways, but I firmly oppose this flawed attempt to redefine WOTUS and would like to see the EPA go back to the drawing board. Our nation’s farmers and ranchers are the backbones of our society, and I am pleased to see that they have a temporary reprieve from this intrusive rule.” ###
10.08.2015	Washington, D.C. – On Wednesday, Congressmen Tom Emmer (MN-06) and Tim Walz (MN-01) introduced H.R. 3686 - the Veterans Care and Reporting Enforcement Act (CARE) Act. This bipartisan legislation was introduced after an unreleased report from 2013 surfaced earlier this year and demonstrated a need for more transparency around reports from the Veterans Affairs Office of the Inspector General. The Veterans CARE Act: Improves Congressional oversight by requiring the release of OIG reports involving patient health and safety at VA medical facilities to the appropriate Congressional Committees and Members of Congress where the VA facility resides. Provides for greater transparency by ensuring the public can access these reports not less than three days after the report is closed. Additionally, the VA OIG must make the report available on their website for not less than one year. Increases accountability by notifying employees if their VA facility has been investigated and how to access the report for a minimum of 30 days. “Enough is enough. America’s veterans have made tremendous sacrifices on behalf of our country, and we owe them exemplary services once they return home,” said Emmer. “It is heartbreaking to see how the dedicated staff at the VA and the patients they care for are repeatedly underserved by the very government tasked with helping them. I want to thank Congressman Walz for joining with me to introduce the Veterans CARE Act. This is a non-partisan issue, and as a nation we must continue our work to bring accountability, transparency and oversight to the VA.” “We need a strong, independent Office of the Inspector General at the VA now more than ever. While they have done good work investigating the claims of brave whistleblowers at the VA, more transparency is needed. After visiting St Cloud with Mr. Emmer this past week, it is clear to me we have more work to do. The sooner we know about situations like St Cloud, the sooner we can address them. This legislation will increase transparency around OIG investigations, and I thank Mr. Emmer for working with me on this critical issue.” Last week, Congressmen Emmer and Walz met with St. Cloud VA staff, union officials as well as veterans and their families to address concerns raised in the 2013 VA OIG report. Following the meeting, Emmer and Walz suggested federal mediation to assist in the ongoing conflict between leadership and staff in St. Cloud. Click here to read the full text of H.R. 3686. A copy of the report can be found here. ###
10.07.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Tom Emmer (R-MN) and Tim Walz (D-MN), who sits on the House Veterans Affairs Oversight and Investigation Sub-committee, visited the St. Cloud VA to conduct oversight following the release of a report by the Office of the Inspector General that was conducted by the VA Midwest Health Network (VISN-23) in 2013. The VISN report substantiated five of the six allegations regarding abusive and disrespectful work environment by management, patient workload 150% of normal, cancelled appointments, and patient safety issues stemming from five of the twenty-one providers leaving in just under forty days. After hearing from staff and providers today, Walz and Emmer suggested federal mediation to resolve the on-going conflict between leadership and staff. The Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS) is an independent federal service that can get involved and help mediate in situations such as this at the joint request of the parties involved. “A positive workplace is essential to continuing valued and necessary care for those who sacrificed for our freedom,” said Walz. “I heard today from staff, patients and leaders to determine whether the culture identified in the Inspector General report has changed. I learned the communication is still very strained and management still has significant work to do . Providers who work at the VA are the very foundation of caring for our veterans and deserve nothing less than our full effort to improve the situation. I thank Representative Emmer and his staff for their work to address these important issues.” “Our veterans across the United States have dedicated their lives to protect this country and it is our duty to ensure they have access to excellent care once they return home,” said Emmer. “Today we listened to VA staff, union officials, and veterans to discuss their concerns and suggestions for improvement. It is vital that necessary action is taken at every level to ensure our veterans receive the care they've earned, and those caring for them receive the utmost respect and attention. That's why both sides agreeing to federal mediation is a substantial step in the right direction. I'm very grateful to Congressman Walz and his staff for their help in this effort for our veterans." A copy of the report and answers to additional questions by the Veteran Affairs Office of Inspector General is available on Congressman Walz’s website https://walz.house.gov/issues/veterans-issues Additional information from the reviewing agency, VA Midwest Health Care Network (VISN-23) is also available. ###
09.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement after the announcement of Speaker Boehner’s resignation: “Speaker Boehner has dedicated twenty-four years of his life to public service and should be commended for his tireless dedication to his constituents in Ohio and to the American people as a whole. I would like to thank Speaker Boehner for his work and leadership in the 114th Congress. It was an honor to work with him during my first nine months in Washington.”
09.24.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement after His Holiness, Pope Francis’ address before Congress. Emmer’s special guests to the joint session of Congress were St. Cloud’s Bishop Kettler, Saint John’s University President Hemesath, and College of Saint Benedict’s President Hinton. “What an honor! What a celebration of America and what a celebration of faith,” said Emmer. “The Pope’s message of America’s importance to the world and our obligation to lead is inspiring. This should encourage Americans – regardless of political perspective or religious beliefs – to move the country forward and to lead the world to a place of peace and prosperity where future generations can achieve their dreams.” "It’s a privilege and honor to welcome Pope Francis to our country and attend his historic address to Congress at the invitation of Rep. Emmer’s office,” said Bishop Kettler. “May the Holy Father’s words continue to inspire us — as citizens and as a nation — to share our strengths and blessings for the common good of all.” “It was an honor to represent the College of Saint Benedict and to hear Pope Francis's address to a joint session of Congress,” said President Hinton “Pope Francis’s remarks resonated with the Benedictine values that guide the College of Saint Benedict. Not only did Pope Francis remind us of our communal responsibility to one another – of the need to work toward peace, justice, and the common good – but he spoke directly to leaders of colleges and universities when he called on us to use technology to support dialog and bridge building. I am grateful that Congressman Emmer created an opportunity for me to participate in Pope Francis’s visit to the United States and to share this experience with so many others.” “Pope Francis's message of hope and compassion clearly resonates deeply with the American people,” said President Hemesath. “It reminds us of our responsibilities to each other as we work to build a just society, and it is absolutely consistent with state of Minnesota's heritage and the people of Minnesota's values. To be here representing Saint John's University, and by extension the people of central Minnesota, is a great honor. Our congressional delegation, and especially Representative Emmer, has been exceedingly generous in allowing the College of Saint Benedict and Saint John's University to be part of this historic occasion.”
09.21.2015	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced today that he will host his next town hall in Sherburne County on October 13th. “My staff and I strive to be transparent, accountable, and most importantly—accessible. Town halls are a great way to facilitate this, and the October town hall will be my 12th since joining Congress in January,” said Emmer. “These events are the perfect opportunity for my constituents to ask me questions about issues that matter to them most and for me to hear what questions and concerns they may have. By the end of my first year in Congress, we will have held an in-person town hall in every county throughout Minnesota’s Sixth District.” When: October 13th, 7:00-8:00pm Where: Sherburne County Old Main Eatery 313 Jackson Ave NW, Elk River, MN 55330 For more information, contact Emmer’s Otsego office at (763)-241-6848. ###
09.18.2015	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) today voted in support of H.R. 3134, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act, of which he is a cosponsor. “Through their recent unacceptable and reprehensible actions, Planned Parenthood has lost the trust of the American people,” said Emmer. “Planned Parenthood must be held accountable for their behavior and taxpayers must know their hard-earned dollars are not funding these horrific actions. Today Congress voted to defund Planned Parenthood and transfer the funds to more than 13,000 clinics nationwide that provide health services for women – without conducting abortions – actually expanding women’s access to health care.” Click here to view this video
09.17.2015	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) today signed on as an original cosponsor of the VA Billing Accountability Act. Congressman John Kline (MN-02), who serves on the House Armed Services Committee, introduced this legislation. Over the summer, nearly 1,500 veterans from around Minnesota and Wisconsin received notice from their local Veterans Affairs Medical Centers (VA) regarding previously unbilled co-payments from care provided as far as five years ago. This legislation sets forth specific – and immediate – billing requirements. These reforms state that a veteran who receives care from the VA must receive their bill within 120 days and those who get their care at a non-VA facility must be billed within 18 months. This bill also grants the Secretary of Veterans Affairs the authority to rid veterans of the requirement to make a co-payment if the VA does not follow the billing timing mandates. Additionally, the VA would now be required to notify veterans on the options available to them to get a waiver and create a payment plan before they can collect payment, if the bill is not sent in a timely manner. “Men and women across our country dedicate their lives to protect our country each and every day and we have a duty to make their lives easier, not more difficult, once they return to the United States,” said Emmer. “Our nation’s veterans deserve quality care without struggling due to delays and/or errors made by an institution created for the sole purpose of assisting them. By clearly defining the timing requirements placed on the VA, this legislation would bring more security and reassurance to veterans. I applaud Congressman Kline for introducing this legislation, and am pleased to work with him and my colleagues towards its passage.” Click here to read the full text.
07.31.2015	Washington, D.C. – Reps. Tom Emmer (R-MN) and José E. Serrano (D-NY) sent a letter last week to World Bank President, Dr. Jim Yong Kim, with 39 of their colleagues urging him to improve road safety in developing countries. Worldwide more than 1.3 million die in road crashes annually, with nearly 90 percent occurring in developing countries. While the World Bank has already taken strides towards improving road safety, the rate of global deaths due to crashes continues to rise with the World Health Organization anticipating deaths due to traffic injury to surpass HIV/AIDS soon. “As we’ve seen in the United States, there is nothing more important to raising living standards, increasing safety and promoting economic development than improvements to transportation,” said Emmer. “As developing nations continue to grow, transportation is key to allowing industry and trade to expand and there is no organization more important to this than the World Bank. I am proud to work with a bipartisan coalition of Members in advocating for American citizens and interests abroad by advancing the goal of upgrading transportation safety in developing nations.” “Road safety, both at home and abroad, is vital to citizens’ security, helps decrease healthcare costs, and boosts economic competitiveness. We have to make sure developing countries’ roads meet minimum safety standards to protect the lives of millions of people and contribute to their economic prosperity. Through its financing of road construction projects around the globe, the World Bank is uniquely positioned to help improve road safety for all users—pedestrians, bicyclists, and motorists—by requiring a minimum set of cost-effective and attainable standards. I am honored to work with colleagues from both sides of aisle to bring attention to this important issue,” said Congressman Serrano. The text of the letter is below and a signed copy can be found here.
07.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – This week, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) introduced H.R. 3340, the Financial Stability Oversight Council Reform Act. This legislation would enhance congressional oversight of an unchecked, isolated and nontransparent governmental organization that has the power to force new regulations on financial institutions. “American businesses and consumers are frustrated by an out of control federal bureaucracy,” said Emmer. “By restoring a transparent, constitutional process, Congress would have the opportunity to verify that the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) is performing its duties and not harming access capital for families and businesses. The financial services industry is incredibly important to Minnesota and while regulators certainly have their place, Congress must ensure that the appropriate checks and balances are in place to oversee the power of regulators in order to protect consumers and the rights of Americans. The Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) was created in 2010 under the Dodd-Frank Act. FSOC has the power to designate financial institutions as “systemically important” which results in greater regulatory burdens. Unfortunately, the designation process has lacked transparency thus far. The legislation would give Congress the power to approve the budget for FSOC and the Office of Financial Research (OFR), create quarterly reporting requirements for OFR, and require OFR to provide at least a 90 day public notice and comment period before issuing any report, rule, or regulation. This increased oversight and transparency would ensure safe and competitive, financial markets, to help Americans purchase homes, cars and have access to higher education. Congressman Tom Emmer represents Minnesota’s Sixth Congressional District and is a member of the Financial Services Committee. The Financial Stability Oversight Council Reform Act is H.R. 3340. Click here to read the full text.
07.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) introduced H.R. 3239 the Armed Forces Career Center Protection Act yesterday. Congressman John Kline (MN-02), who serves on the House Armed Services Committee, signed on as a cosponsor. This legislation would require the installation of bullet proof glass windows and entry doors at all military recruiting centers throughout the nation. The bill would create a national standard, echoing the numerous governors who have already ordered this change in their states. “In the wake of the tragedy at the Armed Forces Career Centers in Chattanooga, Congress needs to act,” said Emmer. “This legislation would require improved security at our nation’s recruiting offices. Our troops deserve to be protected wherever they are and this legislation is an important step in that direction.” “The targeting of our service members in Chattanooga is troubling and tragic,” said Kline, a 25-year veteran of the U.S. Marine Corps whose son has served three tours in Iraq and Afghanistan. “We must do all we can to ensure the brave men and women who have volunteered to protect and defend our country are safe, which is why I am proud to join Congressman Emmer to advance this important legislation that takes steps to do just that.” The Armed Forces Career Center Protection Act is H.R. 3239. Click here to read the full text. ###
07.28.2015	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Tom Emmer (R-MN) and Congresswoman Kathy Castor (D-FL), along with Congressmen Abraham, Amash, Boustany, Ribble, and Sanford, today introduced the Cuba Trade Act of 2015. This legislation would lift the Cuba embargo and allow for businesses in the private sector to trade freely with Cuba, while prohibiting taxpayer funds to be used on promotion or development of this new market. “Today marks a new and exciting chapter for the U.S. - Cuba relationship,” said Emmer. “The American people overwhelmingly support lifting the Cuba embargo. Along with the Cuban people, Americans are ready for a fresh start and new opportunities for increasing trade, advancing the cause of human rights and ushering in direly needed reforms. This legislation will improve our position within the region, giving the U.S. a seat at the table and increased leverage as we support political transformations beginning to occur in Cuba. The time has come for a change in our policy towards Cuba, and I am ready to work with my colleagues in Congress on policies that are beneficial to both the American and Cuban people.” “The United States and Cuba have taken historic actions this year to set our countries on a more productive path forward for citizens of both nations and turn the page on the outdated 50 year policy of isolation,” Castor said. “Today, I am proud to join Rep. Emmer in taking the next step in introducing legislation to lift the embargo. This important step forward will advance human rights and lift the fortunes of families and entrepreneurs on both sides of the Florida straits. Lifting the embargo and reestablishing historic trade ties with Cuba will be a boost to our port and local small businesses in Tampa Bay. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to advance this policy of engagement that will not only provide an economic boost here at home, but will also help the Cuban economy and its people flourish.” For more information, please visit: Emmer.house.gov/cuba The Cuba Trade Act of 2015 is H.R. 3238. ###
07.27.2015	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced today that he will be hosting two in-person town halls during the August district work period. Emmer will host a town hall in Carver County on August 18thand in Washington County on August 27th. "My staff and I strive to be transparent, accountable, and most importantly--accessible," said Emmer. "This is an opportunity for my constituents to ask me questions about the issues that matter most to them and to hear from me directly about my work in Congress." When: August 18th, 7:00-8:00pm Where: Carver County Waconia City Hall 201 S. Vine Street When: August 27th, 7:00-8:00pm Where: Washington County Forest Lake City Hall 1408 Lake Street South For more information, contact Emmer’s Otsego office at (763)-241-6848. ###
06.23.2015	Washington, D.C. -- Reps. Keith Ellison (D-MN) and Tom Emmer (R-MN) announced today the creation of the Congressional Somalia Caucus. “We are proud to announce the formation of the Congressional Somalia Caucus,” Emmer and Ellison said. “As Somalia emerges from decades of violent conflict and humanitarian crises, we are committed to assisting the Somali government build on economic and security gains they have achieved. This assistance is vital to Somalia’s continued progress and to the United States’ national security.” The purpose of the Somalia Caucus is to advocate for peace and stability in Somalia by ensuring the United States is providing sufficient and meaningful assistance so that democracy, good governance, and prosperity prevail over terrorism in Somalia. This means supporting efforts to defeat Al-Shabaab and prevent recruitment, helping to create good governance standards, and bringing Somalia’s informal economy into the formal 21st century global marketplace. “Together, we represent some of the largest Somali-American communities in the United States; for us and the constituents we represent, Somalia is not a far off foreign policy issue, it’s a matter of domestic policy and national security. We are committed to advocating on behalf of all of our constituents while ensuring that Somalia has the tools it needs to create strong democratic institutions that provide safety and economic opportunity to its people.”
06.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) voted today in support of the Trade Act of 2015, also known as Trade Promotion Authority (TPA). Emmer has been a vocal supporter for TPA and was a lead on a freshman letter to President Obama supporting this legislation. TPA contains 150 objectives mandated by Congress that the U.S. Trade Representative must adhere to during negotiations. It authorizes the President to enter into an agreement only after Congress –and the American people–have given their approval. This legislation requires that any deal must be public for, at the very minimum, 60 days before any vote is taken. Lastly, this legislation also allows Congress to withdraw TPA at any time during its six-year authorization, effectively stopping any bad agreement in its tracks. “By passing TPA, we took an important step towards ensuring America’s future success as a nation, both domestically and globally,” said Emmer. “Trade is a vital component of our country’s economy. Today, I voted for the nearly 757,000 Minnesotans and 38 million Americans who depend on foreign trade and investment to provide for their families. TPA, and American Trade, is good for Minnesota, and what is good for Minnesota is good for our country.” “Like many of my constituents, I have been concerned about being kept in the dark by this Administration during trade negotiations. This is exactly why TPA is necessary –to provide the transparency and accountability that Americans deserve.” said Emmer. “With TPA, Congress and the American people will have the tools to hold the President accountable, while also opening up new markets for Minnesota’s goods and services.” H.R. 1314 is a bipartisan piece of legislation that passed the House by a vote of 219-211. For text of the full bill, click here. To view Emmer’s op-eds and videos related to TPA, click here.
05.20.2015	Washington, D.C. -- This morning Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) was officially appointed to the House Financial Services Committee. He will also serve on the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit and the Subcommittee on Monetary Policy and Trade. Last week, the House Republican Steering Committee voted for Emmer to join the committee to fill the vacancy left by Rep. Dold after his move to Ways and Means. Emmer submitted waiver requests in hopes of continuing to serve on both of his former committees—Agriculture and Foreign Affairs. “I am thrilled to have been appointed to the Financial Services Committee and look forward to get to work defending competition, consumer choice and our free market system,” said Emmer. “The financial industry is extremely prominent in the 6th District, with 146 banks, 8 credit unions and more than 57,000 of my constituents employed in finance related fields. I am looking forward to rolling up my sleeves to work on behalf of Minnesota’s robust and thriving financial sector.” “We are very pleased to have Rep. Emmer joining us on the House Financial Services Committee,” said Chairman Jeb Hensarling. “During his first four months in Congress, Tom has proven himself as a hardworking and prudent member who is willing to lead on a variety of issues important to his state. Through his experience serving on the Finance and Regulated Industries Committees in the Minnesota Legislature along with his private sector experience, Tom will be a great asset to this committee.” Further Information: Video: Emmer Joins Financial Services Committee Star Tribune: Tom Emmer lands spot on key Financial Services Committee ###
05.14.2015	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) participated in a markup today for the House Committee on Agriculture’s reauthorization of the Commodity Futures Trade Commission (CFTC). Emmer offered one of the seven amendments to the bill—his first as a Member of Congress. Emmer’s amendment modifies the Commodity Exchange Act by clarifying that the clearing relief exemption for small banks and savings associations also extends to the holding companies of those associations. “This morning, I was pleased to offer my first amendment,” said Emmer. “Through this addition, holding companies with $10 billion or less in assets will have greater flexibility to hedge their risks, particularly when it comes to rising interest rates. Overall, the CFTC reauthorization bill is a strong piece of legislation that addresses a number of concerns expressed in recent hearings. I appreciate my colleagues’ consideration of my amendment, and look forward to continuing to advocate on this bill’s behalf in the full House.” “This bill codifies new practices instituted by the CFTC and other market regulators to protect customer margin, it includes a strong cost-benefit analysis measure to produce better rules, and it provides relief for end-users from burdensome requirements currently in place. The derivatives market exists to help businesses manage their risk, and this bill will bring positive reforms to help these markets run efficiently and effectively for market participants, financial intermediaries, and end-users alike,” said Agriculture Committee Chairman K. Michael Conaway.Emmer’s amendment passed unanimously by voice vote. The CFTC reauthorization bill is a bipartisan piece of legislation that passed committee and awaits further action in the House. For text of the full bill, click here. To view the text of Emmer’s amendment, click here. ###
05.05.2015	Otsego, Minn. – Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced today the winners of the annual Congressional Art Competition for high school students living in Minnesota’s 6th District. First Place: “The Mind” by Ally Harris First place was awarded to Ally Harris, a junior at Elk River High School, for her watercolor/acrylic/mixed media piece, “The Mind,” featuring a colorful profile of a young woman. Ally is the daughter of David and Kristy Harris. Ally’s art teacher at Elk River High School is Rana Nestrud. Second Place: “The Calf” by Claire Miller Second place was awarded to Claire Miller, a junior at Sartell High School, for her watercolor pastel drawing, "The Calf." It features a black and white calf resting on a pile of golden hay highlighted with rainbow tints. Claire is the daughter of Debra and Todd Miller. Her art teacher is Debra Rollings. Third Place: "Not Your Mascot" by Lisa Kovacs Lisa Kovacs, a senior at Saint Michael-Albertville High School, won third place for her photograph, "Not Your Mascot." Lisa is the daughter of Jenifer and Chris Kovacs. Her art teacher is Kari Halker. Click here for larger versions of all the winning pieces. “I am completely blown away by the talent demonstrated by Minnesota’s teenagers,” said Emmer. “I am proud of everyone who submitted artwork. I know it wasn’t easy for our judges to decide, but I look forward to walking past the winning art every day on the way to the Capitol.”The Congressional Art Competition is an annual competition for high school students across the United States. Each Congressional office selects one winner to display in the tunnel connecting the Cannon House Office Building to the U.S. Capitol traveled daily by members of Congress, staff, and visitors to Washington, D.C. ###
05.04.2015	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced today that he will be hosting a Twitter Town Hall on Tuesday, May 12 from 2:00-3:00pm Central time. To ask a question, simply post on Facebook, ask via his website, or tweet to @RepTomEmmer with the hashtag #AskTom between now and the end of the town hall, and he will answer them live on his YouTube channel. “I enjoy every opportunity to speak one-on-one with people around the 6th district,” said Emmer. “This is a different, and in many ways more convenient, way for constituents to ask me questions about the issues that matter most to them. I look forward to reading what they send in.” This Twitter town hall is Emmer’s fifth town hall in his first five months in office, having previously done two in-person and two on the phone. For more information, visit: Emmer.house.gov/AskTom ###
04.23.2015	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Tom Emmer (R-MN) and Congresswoman Grace Meng (D-NY), members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, introduced legislation this week--H.R. 1921, the Grant Residency for Additional Doctors (GRAD) Act of 2015--that would direct the State Department to speed up the visa approval process for international physicians who are slated to work at hospitals in the United States. Due to the complexity of the J-1 Visa process, applicants scheduled to serve their residencies at American hospitals are encountering delays obtaining their visas at U.S. Embassies. As a result, the hospitals – many in rural and underserved communities – at which the physicians are set to work are forced hospitals to withdraw offers to foreign physicians. “As American hospitals face doctor shortages, this important legislation will increase healthcare access across the country by eliminating the persistent backlog of J-1 Visas,” said Emmer. “By improving oversight and training at U.S. Embassies we can ensure our Foreign Service Officers have all the tools they need to properly process each application in a timely manner. I’m honored to introduce the GRAD Act with Congresswoman Meng. This bipartisan bill doesn’t just address issues important to the State Department and the applicant; it will also benefit the patients of underserved hospitals by giving them access to medical care when they need it most.” “The excessive delays in approving visas for international physicians is causing unnecessary havoc for those doctors and the American hospitals that are depending on them,” said Meng. “This ineffective approval process must be improved so that these doctors can enter the U.S. as planned, and provide the critical medical care needed in many communities throughout the country. Not resolving this dilemma would be extremely unfair to all and a disservice to the millions of Americans who seek treatment from these hospitals, especially in areas where there is a shortage of doctors. Our bill would finally fix this problem and that’s why Congress needs to pass it.” The GRAD Act would require the Secretary of State to relieve the backlog of such cases by conducting an expedited review of J-1 visa applicants for graduate medical education or training. In addition, the legislation would mandate that Foreign Service Officers at relevant embassies receive training related to medical graduates and medical graduate programs. The J-1 is a temporary nonimmigrant visa that international physicians use to work in U.S. medical residency programs. ###
04.22.2015	Washington, D.C. -- Today, Senator Al Franken of Minnesota hosted the Fifth Annual Minnesota Hotdish Off on Capitol Hill. This was freshman Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06)’s first time participating in the competition, a fact he highlighted in his “Fresh Meat Hotdish.” “Like many Minnesotans, I grew up on hotdish,” said Emmer. “As the delegation’s newest member, I’m excited to join my colleagues in this annual tradition celebrating our home state. Just like my work in Congress is a fresh take on politics, my hotdish was a fresh take on my mom’s recipe.” The annual competition is an opportunity for the Minnesota delegation to get together and enjoy a taste of home and celebrate the state’s culture. All dishes were judged in a blind taste test by the judges, Jill Burcum, Eric Kaler, and Devin Henry. This year’s winner was Congresswoman Betty McCollum with her Turkey, Sweet Potato, and Wild Rice Hotdish. Click here for pictures from the event. Emmer’s recipe is as follows:FRESH MEAT HOTDISHIngredients 1 pound, ground beef 1 can, cream of mushroom soup 1 can, cream of chicken soup 6 oz Green Giant canned corn 1 tsp, garlic 1 tsp, onion powder 1 onion, diced 1 red bell pepper, diced 1 green bell pepper, diced 1 tsp, Lawry’s seasoned salt 1 bag, Tater Tots 1.5 cups, shredded Land O’Lakes cheddar cheese 1.5 cups, shredded Land O’Lakes jalapeno jack cheese 1 tsp Cumin 1 tsp Chili powder 1 tsp Paprika Pinch of Salt and pepper Optional: hot sauceDirections Mix onion, peppers, Lawry’s, onion powder, and garlic into raw hamburger Add cumin, chili powder, paprika and salt and pepper to tater tots Brown the hamburger mixture Mix the corn with the cans of soup Spread the beef in the bottom of a 9 x 13 baking dish Alternate layers of soup/corn mixture and cheese Top with a layer of tater tots Bake for one hour at 375 Click here for a printable version of Emmer's recipe. Click here for photos from the event. ###
03.26.2015	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) introduced two pieces of legislation this week—the Keeping Our Promises to Veterans Act of 2015 and the National Interchange/Intersection Safety Construction Program Act of 2015. These are Emmer’s first bills introduced as a member of the U.S. House of Representatives.H.R. 1532, the Keeping Our Promises to Veterans Act of 2015 This bill amends current law to improve the Veterans Choice Program by expanding access for the veterans that need it most. It implements four easy fixes: (1) relax the 40-mile radius requirement to 20 miles; (2) reduce the current 30-day waiting period to 15; (3) require the VA to prove that one of their facilities can actually provide the care required; and (4) force the VA to come in line with the Prompt Pay Act. Click here for bill text. “After the disturbing revelations regarding veteran care at several VA hospitals around the country, Congress made great strides in working to resolve these issues,” said Emmer. “But there is still work to be done and oversights to rectify. We have a sacred obligation to our veterans when they return home. These small changes to the Veterans Choice Program will help them have easier and more reliable access to the care they deserve.”H.R. 1606, the National Interchange/Intersection Safety Construction Program Act of 2015 (NIISCP) The NIISCP would establish a national program that would prioritize a portion of federal highway funds every year and allow projects to compete for those funds on a state-by-state basis. Those projects selected could then be approved by Congress. Click here for bill text. Emmer: “In my meetings with constituents, the calls for transportation assistance throughout our state are unanimous, especially with regard to expanding US 10 and I-94. With these needs so apparent and attention on it so minimal on the state level, this legislation is necessary to narrow the focus of a portion of funding to help keep our intersections and interchanges safe. Additionally, this will boost economic development and relieve congestion along the troubled routes that many Minnesotans travel daily.” Emmer joined his Minnesota colleagues, Rep. Tim Walz and Rep. Erik Paulsen, in sending a letter to Chairman Bill Shuster and Ranking Member Rep. Peter DeFazio of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee encouraging them to consider the proposal. Click here to view the delegation letter. ###
03.25.2015	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06), a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement regarding President Ashraf Ghani of Afghanistan’s address before Congress: “I was incredibly impressed by President Ghani and his love for his country and fellow countrymen. He celebrates a history of a successful people, who in more recent times have known only conflict. At times, turmoil in the region seems unending, but President Ghani wants the world to recognize the transformation taking place in Afghanistan and the optimism he has for a peaceful future. By emphasizing rule of law, fighting corruption, and encouraging friendship with the United States, I am hopeful that he will successfully overcome the daunting obstacles before him. I applaud his decision to come before Congress, and thank him for his insight and courageous leadership." ###
03.18.2015	Otsego, Minn. -- Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced that his office will host an informational night for those interested in applying for a nomination for one of the service academies. Attendees will hear about the application process for each academy as well as the Congressional nomination process. Representatives from the United States Military Academy at West Point, the United States Air Force Academy, and the United States Naval Academy will be available to answer questions. WHEN: Thursday, May 7, 2015, 6:00 - 7:30pmWHERE: Elk River Library Community Room 13020 Orono Pkwy, Elk River, MN 55330 For more information, contact Andrew Mathews in the Otsego office at (763) 241-6848 or visit Emmer.house.gov ###
03.17.2015	Otsego, Minn. -- Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced today that he will host a town hall in Blaine, Minnesota on April 1. "My staff and I strive to be transparent, accountable, and most importantly--accessible," said Emmer. "This is an opportunity for my constituents to ask me questions about the issues that matter most to them and to hear from me directly about my work in Congress." When: April 1, 2015, 6:00-7:00pmWhere: Blaine City Hall, 10801 Town Square Dr. NE For more information, contact Emmer's Otsego office at (763) 241-6848 ###
03.09.2015	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) joined the congressional delegation to Alabama this past weekend to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the "Bloody Sunday" march in Selma. "It was an honor to stand side-by-side with my colleagues in Selma this weekend," said Emmer. "The beauty of the American system is that we are a nation of laws, and everyone deserves equal protection under them. As we pause and reflect on the anniversary of such a dark time in American history, may we never forget the efforts of those who fought for equality in this nation. It is now our responsibility to ensure that their legacy lives on in our children and our children's children." Click here to view photos from Emmer's visit to Selma. ###
03.09.2015	Washington, D.C. -- U.S. Representatives Tom Emmer (MN-06) and Mimi Walters (CA-45) released the following statements after sending a letter to President Obama urging swift action on enacting Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) legislation. Walters and Emmer led the freshman class in sending the letter, with more than two dozen of their freshman colleagues signing in support. Text of this letter can be found here. Said Rep. Tom Emmer: “Since the expiration of TPA, Congress has little to no say in negotiating treaties trade deals. With TPA, Congress would be exercising its Constitutional authority over trade. We, as members of the U.S. House of Representatives, would be able to represent our constituency by demanding that America’s trade deals best reflect the priorities of the American public and American workers. With 38 million American jobs supported by international trade, swift action early this year on TPA would pave the way for sustained economic growth and further job creation.” Said Rep. Mimi Walters: “International trade is a critical component to job creation, higher wages, and increased economic opportunity both in the United States and abroad. One of the best mechanisms that Congress has to ensure free and fair trade that benefits all Americans, is through Trade Promotion Authority. TPA gives Congress the power to establish negotiating objectives, while ensuring that those objectives are upheld by requiring a final up-or-down vote by Congress. It provides the United States with the platform to enter into trade agreements that expand and open overseas markets, which thereby boost economic growth and job opportunities back home. My freshman colleagues and I were pleased to unite behind this issue and are hopeful the President will make TPA a top priority during the 114th Congress.” Walters represents California’s 45th District and is on the House Transportation and Judiciary Committees. Emmer represents Minnesota’s 6th District and is on the House Foreign Affairs and Agriculture Committees. Click here to view the text of their letter. Further Reading: Star Tribune: Emmer: Why trade promotion authority is key to global agreements ###
03.03.2015	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06), a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s address before Congress: “In a world of turmoil and so few true leaders, it was an honor to hear Prime Minister Netanyahu speak with conviction about what’s happening to his region and its impact on global stability. With the Iranian nuclear deal approaching, this is not some faraway issue for the Israelis—it’s a matter of life and death. Israel has every right to defend herself, and I applaud the Prime Minister’s decision to come before Congress to reiterate this point. His speech was a sobering reminder why the United States must stand with Israel.” ###
03.02.2015	Washington, D.C. -- Following the second vote today on funding the Department of Homeland Security, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement: “The number one role of the Federal Government is to protect our citizens. I am disappointed that many of my colleagues chose to put the security of Americans at stake and waste time by playing politics. “The President’s unilateral executive action on immigration created a constitutional crisis. That deserves our attention and a serious fight, but the strategy surrounding Department of Homeland Security (DHS) funding was inherently flawed. Last year, the Cromnibus bill—which I would not have voted for—punted the ball to where we stood today. Once again, we only have a short-term solution. “Congress has a solemn responsibility. As a body, we should never hold America’s safety hostage simply for political gamesmanship. I am grateful that the states stood up against the President’s unconstitutional actions and that a federal judge suppressed the executive order, but forcing Members of Congress to choose between battling the President’s unlawful action and protecting our country is wrong. No matter how important, no issue can trump the safety of the American people. “With the recent terror threats to the Mall of America hitting so close to home and the potential need for natural disaster relief in Minnesota during the winter months, it is imperative we approve the funding DHS needs and stop playing political games.” ###
02.13.2015	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced today the launch of a new constituent response video series. “I want my work in Congress to be transparent and accountable, but most importantly—accessible,” said Emmer. “These videos will be an opportunity for me to respond directly to constituent questions, share a behind-the-scenes look at our offices, and give my perspective on what’s happening in Washington.” In his first update, Emmer discusses the House vote on extending Sec 179 of the tax code, which reduces taxes for businesses by enabling them to write off some equipment purchases, such as certain types of machinery and off-the-shelf software. Constituents are encouraged to write in and share what issues matter most to them. New videos will appear on his social media accounts and on his website at Emmer.house.gov/AskTom. ###
02.11.2015	Otsego, Minn. -- Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced today that his office is seeking submissions for the annual Congressional Art Competition from high school students living in Minnesota's 6th District. "The 6th District is home to many talented teenagers," said Emmer. "This competition is an opportunity for high school students in Minnesota to showcase their skills and brighten the halls of Congress with a little hometown flair. I encourage anyone interested to submit their original piece." All artwork must be submitted to Emmer's Otsego office by Friday, April 17, 2015. The winning artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a year. Interested students should visit Emmer's website for more information. ###
01.20.2015	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement after witnessing his first State of the Union address: “It’s encouraging to see that the President and the new Congress share many of the same goals. We all want to see affordable education, inexpensive and accessible healthcare, and a robust middle class. How we reach those goals is another matter. “The Republican majorities were not elected to fall in step with President Obama’s agenda—the American people are demanding change. The President needs to learn to work with, not against, Congress to find solutions. It’s been only two weeks since the 114th Congress was sworn in, and we’ve hit the ground running by passing solid, bipartisan legislation. Now the President needs to act. “For six years, we’ve heard President Obama tout big ideas and even bigger promises, and tonight was no different. Despite the annual list of promises, most remain unfulfilled. The programs and policies from this administration have hurt the middle class he claims to defend, taxed the families he claims are safe, and stifled the growth he claims to have created. “The end result is bigger government and higher costs, forcing the middle class to pick up the tab for the President’s lofty goals. “Despite our differences, it was an honor to hear from the President this evening. If he’s ready to get to work on the change that Americans demanded last November, Congress will be here waiting.” ###
01.19.2015	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced today that he will serve on the Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human Rights, and International Organizations as well as Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere for the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. Regarding this placement, Emmer issued the following statement: “Minnesota proudly boasts one of the country’s highest populations of new African immigrants, many of whom have grave concerns for their home countries and their loved ones still living there. These concerns are why I look forward to be sitting on the Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human Rights, and International Organizations. By serving on this subcommittee, I can provide oversight of U.S. operations to combat Ebola, work with international organizations such as the United Nations and Peace Corps, and craft American policy to improve economic and political relations with the continent that is home to some of the world’s fastest growing economies. “Minnesota is also home to a vibrant Hispanic population which is why I am happy to be serving on the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere. I also look forward to building and strengthening our ties with our Canadian neighbor to the North. Through this subcommittee, I will be able to provide oversight to all foreign assistance to the region and craft U.S. policy to deal with humanitarian crises, foreign agriculture and trade, and have regular meetings with foreign Ambassadors and dignitaries.” The Foreign Affairs Committee oversees legislation regarding international aid, the United Nations, as well as the State Department. ###
01.13.2015	Otsego, Minn. -- Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) announced today the opening of his district office in Otsego. The office is located at 9201 Quaday Ave. NE, Suite 206, Otsego, MN 55330 and will be open Monday through Friday from 9am to 5pm. Staff can be reached at (763) 241-6848. “My staff and I, both in Minnesota and in our nation’s capital, are here to serve you,” said Emmer. “Otsego’s centralized location will make it easier to prioritize casework, meetings, and other constituent services. If we can be of any help, please don’t hesitate to reach out to my offices.” Emmer also has an office in Washington, D.C. located at 503 Cannon. For more information on Emmer, his offices, and his work in Congress, visit Emmer.house.gov. ###
01.09.2015	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement after the House voted to approve construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline: “I support the Keystone XL Pipeline because I support economic and energy independence for Minnesota and our country. The pipeline will be a safe, efficient means of transporting up to 830,000 barrels of crude oil from Canada to the United States daily. Construction of this pipeline will support thousands of jobs by increasing our GDP by nearly $3.4 billion, while also decreasing our dependence on oil from volatile foreign nations. Additionally, we will also see some relief for road and railway congestion currently plaguing cities across Minnesota. After more than 2,300 days of stalling, I urge the President and the new majority in the Senate to follow the House’s lead by listening to the American people's call for energy growth and stability.”H.R. 3, the Keystone XL Pipeline Act passed the House of Representatives with a bipartisan vote of 266-153. To view the full text of this legislation, click here. To view Emmer’s Floor speech on this bill, click here. ###
01.08.2015	Washington, D.C. -- After attending a press conference yesterday on the repeal of the job-killing medical device tax, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) released the following statement: “The medical device industry is a vital component of Minnesota’s economy and I am proud to be an original cosponsor on the repeal of the medical device tax. This tax, mandated by Obamacare, has stifled innovation and killed jobs across the state of Minnesota and it is imperative that we take the steps necessary to prevent further damage. “This bill has been stalled for the past four years and I believe that with the new Senate majority we will have a great opportunity to finally move it forward. I look forward to working with my colleagues on this, particularly fellow Minnesotan Rep. Erik Paulsen and Rep. Ron Kind of neighboring Wisconsin, to bring renewed hope to repealing this tax.”Emmer is an original cosponsor of H.R. 160, which if passed will repeal the medical device excise tax. To view the text of this legislation, click here. ###
01.06.2015	Washington, D.C. -- Joined by his family and friends, Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06) was sworn into his first term in the United States House of Representatives for the 114th Congress. Emmer released the following statement regarding his first day in office: “The 6th district of Minnesota has been my home for nearly 20 years, and it is an honor to represent it now in the halls of Congress. We have a solid team in place both in D.C. and in Otsego, and are ready to hit the ground running. “The work began on day one, as I cast my vote for the Hire More Heroes Act. This important legislation, of which I was proud to be an original cosponsor, protects veterans who already receive healthcare through TRICARE or the VA by exempting them from the Obamacare 50-plus employee mandate. Veterans currently have a 10 percent unemployment rate, and we have a sacred obligation to protect their benefits and help them secure work when they return home by incentivizing potential employers. "I also had the opportunity to elect the Speaker of the House. Two months ago, the Republican Conference met and nominated potential candidates for the 114th Congress. No opposition to the current Speaker came forward, nor were any alternatives offered. While several members threw their hats in the ring over the past 72 hours, I was never approached or contacted by any new contender asking for my support or sharing their plan and why they believed they should receive my vote. "There will be times I will vote with leadership and times I will vote against leadership, but at all times, I will be pushing for what is best for the people of the 6th District." Emmer joins 59 other House freshmen in the 114th Congress. He will serve on the House Committees on Foreign Affairs and Agriculture. For more on Emmer and his first term, visit his new website at Emmer.house.gov. For behind the scenes photos of his first days in office, click here. ###
